ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:03:16]] Cards were registered in the 386 National Deputies Sessional Hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will be open. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of the Ukrainian national deputy Tregucheva Jurija Valentinović. Please welcome our colleague and wish him success. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, I give you an overview of the plenary work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine from 4 to 7 October 2011. Six plenary sessions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine were held, and 72 issues of the agenda were considered. As a result of the review, 10 laws and 77 regulations were passed, 11 bills were passed on the basis, 1 draft decree was sent to the Committee for Re-reading, 5 bills were converted to the subject of the legislative initiative, 30 bills and 3 draft regulations were rejected; 2 laws were adopted as a whole, taking into account the proposals of the President of Ukraine, 1 law was submitted to the Committee, 1 law was rejected, 1 law was rejected, and 136 parliamentary requests were declared. Ladies and gentlemen, I offer your attention to the announcement. According to the statement and in accordance with part three of article 60 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I report the departure of the Ukrainian National Deputy Zozuli Ruslan Petrovic from the MP's Timoshenko-Batykshina-Clock. Ladies and gentlemen, on October 17, 2011, the Central Election Commission registered the National Deputy of Ukraine, who was elected on September 30, 2007, in a multi-mandatory national constituency, Hanustak Yuri Ivanovich, on the electoral list of the "Julia Tymoshenko Block". In accordance with article 79 of the Constitution, Ukraine’s national deputies take an oath before the Supreme Council of Ukraine before taking office. To make an oath to the rostrum, the national deputy of Ukraine, Hanustak Yuri Ivanovich, is invited. Please, Yuri Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m0.u2	I swear allegiance to Ukraine. I commit myself to upholding Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence by all my actions, caring for the welfare and welfare of Ukraine’s people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m0.u3	Dear colleagues, please welcome Yuri Ivanovich. [[Applause]] Honourable National Deputies, I immediately announce that according to the statement made by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Mr. Hanushtak Yuri Ivanovich, he is a member of the deputy faction "BUT – "The Fatherland". [[Applause]] Honourable National Deputies, in accordance with article 25 of the Regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, are given 30 minutes on Tuesday for statements by authorized members of the MPs and groups to make applications, make proposals, and so forth. Members of the MPs and groups, please sign up for the presentation. Olga Bodnar, "BUT" faction, "Fatherland." Who will act? Ivan Kirilenko. The next one will be the Radovec. Chaplain? Chaplain, please. Ivan Kirilenko, "BUT" faction, "Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m0.u4	Respectable compatriots! Unprecedented on its scale, Julia Timoshenko’s weed entered a phase that is very similar to a massive heist and an unprecedented execution. Whoever was at the Cave Court on the day of judgment could see with his own eyes this vast and vast sea of black scary masks, helmets, and vests. This was not the case even at Laden Ben. From whom and against whom? Against MPs, old men and women? So what do these organs do? Are they with the people, for the people, or against the people? But to whom should the pain be addressed? Independent power structures no longer exist in Ukraine. Only bitches were left with the judicial and legislative branches. If the court legalizes April 31st, the documents date back to numbers that have not yet occurred, the sentence is written along with such an escort as human rights and independent justice? It is not surprising, then, that in our country the highest level of crime is detected. But everyone knows how this is done, and almost all the sentences are incriminating. Woe to a land where more than a third of the prisoners sit for nothing. That is why the world community has never been so unitedly indignant, for the judgment of Julius Tymoshenko was essentially a symbol of disrespect for both its own and international law. There they do not throw their opponents in prison for political decisions! And the beating of deputies from opposition! And not allowing them into the courtroom! And the ban on visiting Julia Timoshenko at the S.I.A.! And numerous attacks on offices, public receptions, even housing, as was the case with Eugene Suslov last week when his residence was literally stormed! The other half of our hall, which is called "most," is to the light bulb. There has never been such a hardness in our interdeputy family. But we realize that this is the voice of the outcry in the wilderness of contempt, cynicism, and callousness. It'll only take a few minutes, and it'll start a long time ago, as the classic used to say, "two in, two in, two in, against, the rest in, standing on the hurrah." Dozens of respected people will humbly vote for all that they will wave, becoming more and more hostages of national discontent and anger. And everyone understands that problems can and should be solved in a different way: together, without being exposed to a strong anger. Today, the world is rapidly changing its value base criteria. Millions of people have rebelled against the claims of banks, monopolies, corporations, excessive wealth, and injustice. What do we have? And this year we have tens of billions of dollars to flee the country without paying taxes or contributions to the Pension Fund. 40 billion dollars is not going to be counted by the State budget. This money with interest would be enough to solve the problems of both pensioners and performing medicine, barely living education and arbitrary local self - government. For this reason, Julia was thrown into prison because she would not give her life for such things, and they would never forgive the authorities that millions of people who were seriously ill were left without medication this year. The stone on the stone wouldn't have left in this room tens of billions of written-off debts to the budget for beloved structures, for cynical lobbyist laws that had already been tired of writing a democratic press. Not for the past time, for playing Timoshenko, but for the future. In order to save the situation and prestige of the state in any way, our faction proposes that the Presidential Bill on Decriminalization should be immediately taken into account, which provides for a clear possibility for Julius Timoshenko and many innocent persons to leave the prison immediately. We realize that there is not enough conscience or heart to deliver a justifiable judgment. This is what we hope the European Court will do. But today the fate of the country and its European choice are at stake. Before the President's visit to Brussels, there are two days left, and they stand firm on human values. For the future of children and grandchildren we must vote today, there will be no third chance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m0.u5	Vladimir Caplienko, MP for the Future. Next is Michael Schershung.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m0.u6	Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians! The MP's Reform for the Future urges the government to speed up negotiations with Russia on the 2009 review of gas agreements. Our main goal is to lower the price of gas for Ukrainian citizens. It is not worth reminding us that existing gas agreements are discriminatory for Ukraine, and that is why the government with us must defend Ukrainian national interests. Nor should it be recalled that the 2009 agreement and the increase in the price of Russian natural gas for Ukraine in the reality of 2011 impose a negative trade-economic balance on the external balance. Yet, there are strong corporate and trade ties with enormous potential between Ukraine and Russia, and we need to do everything we can to maintain the normal development of bilateral relations and minimize conflicts between our countries in which life is so rich today. Therefore, we need to seek compromise, the aim of which is to lower the price of gas for ordinary citizens in the private and budgetary sectors of Ukraine so that Ukrainians do not become hostage to Russian natural fuel prices. Because it is not a secret that most Ukrainian citizens pay for Russian gas, not their own production, in the natural gas consumption structure. The fair price of Russian gas for Ukraine should not be $347 per thousand cubic meters, as it will be in the fourth quarter of this year, but $200 per thousand cubic metres. The calculations here are very simple: the price of gas for Poland is $320 per thousand cubes, for Germany at the present time is $330 per thousand cubes. If you subtract the transport component from this price and some other costs, the price for Ukraine is going to be about $200 per thousand cubic meters. Ukrainian citizens cannot pay for the mistakes of all previous governments, no more, they should not pay for gas more than they pay for, for example, Poles or Germans. Are we not Europeans? Because the excessive price of Russian gas has led to a steady rise in prices, directly striking the standard of living of ordinary citizens and of every Ukrainian. It therefore supports the government's efforts to reverse gas supply and to find alternative sources of alternative fuel both in the public and private sectors of the country. We welcome the decision to significantly reduce the purchase of Russian natural gas. Ukraine plans to purchase 27.4 billion cubic feet [27.4 billion cubic metres] of fuel in Russian the following year, 5 billion less than it was purchased in 2011. Similarly, we welcome the government’s intention to triangulate the imports of natural gas by increasing its own production. We are confident that the negotiation process around gas contracts will be completed in October, just as the 2012 budget is being formed, Ukraine, over which the Supreme Council will start its work in the next week. We have to compromise with the Russian side on such important indicators as gas prices, supply conditions, transportation, etc. The Reforms for the Future faction urges the government to speed up negotiations with the Russian side for the purpose of reviewing gas contracts. The price of Russian gas should no doubt be reduced and the interests of Ukrainian citizens protected. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m0.u7	Mikola Shershun, faction of the People's Party. Peter Simonenko will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m0.u8	Mikola Shershun, faction of the People's Party. Dear Head, dear colleagues! Unfortunately, we often tread on the same rakes, making the same mistakes. This is about the problems of social protection of the population that have been affected by the accident at CHAES. Today, the Ministry of Social Policy, which is the main fund manager for the rehabilitation of such citizens, is looking after this issue. I respect the work of this ministry, but I must repeat what I have said on many occasions. The social policy it pursues with regard to Chernobyl is mildly ineffective. At present, the Ministry is a statistician, and usually local problems are not seen or seen by Kiev. So for example, let's take a situation where you're going to take a trip to health care. They are given no consideration to the number of applications or medical recommendations. People don't want to go to these sanatoriums. Why? Because they're offered to treat the digestive system in Crimea, and in Truscavet or Morshin, the breathing organs are, although they need to be treated the other way around. There's no "mother and child" travel in the Crimea sanatorium. As a result, victims of complaints go to local authorities. What they're doing is they're hand-in-handling because the health-care contracts are being made by the Ministry of Social Policy of Ukraine, so it's not possible to influence this situation. It seems to someone that I'm suppressing the situation and making a problem where it seems to be gone at all. Then let's take statistics, and she's frightening. From year to year, the health of affected citizens has deteriorated. Fellows, consider the figures: 83 percent of children living in polluted areas are sick. We love the phrase "the future of the nation," "the future of Ukraine." But what will be our future with so many sick children? Of course, it is easier to keep quiet or pretend that nothing is happening, as some people want. But the problem of the Chernobyls will not disappear in itself. Our responsibility is to care for the health of people living in polluted areas, especially children. And you have to solve these issues in a complex, starting with the first source of pollution. On more than one occasion, I spoke until we were able to heal the territory, and statistics of sick people and children who drink contaminated milk would only worsen. Unfortunately, as I analyzed the draft budget for the following year, I saw nothing comforting there. Because the nine budget programs that were held in this year are reduced to one for 2012. Only 413 million dollars, less than half of the minimum need, are proposed for the recovery of the Chernobyl family. So, of course, we do not avoid numerous complaints and complaints. Let's at least take care of quality recovery and efficient use of government funds by handing over these powers to the region. Believe me, they know better what they need to do. We're already going to cause a disturbance among the Chernobyls by allowing the Cabinet of Ministers to determine the size of their benefits. Indeed, this question needs a balanced approach. Because among those who have the right status, many and questionable black people. But these changes need to be made on a reasonable basis. And now it's about healing and treating those who really need it: first of all, our children with you. So let us not deprive the Chernobylites of the last hope of State protection and support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m0.u9	Peter Simonenko, Communist faction. Next is Mikola Martinenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m0.u10	Respectable voters! The events of the last days, the massive protests against the policies of bourgeois Governments and the power of transnational corporations that have gone through more than 900 cities and have encompassed the world, confirm the conclusion that capitalism, as a social economic system, as a system of cultural and moral values, has completely disappeared. Of course, it would be impermissible to claim that tomorrow's capital will voluntarily renounce its world domination, that tomorrow all the rich will take over and share with the poor, that the NATO-Political bloc, the fence of imperialism, will suddenly cease to bomb the unruly countries and destroy the peaceful population. Yes, in this fierce struggle of labour and capital, the latter is not disgusted by any means: neither by the support of the Fascist and Nazi regimes, nor by the intimidation of peoples, nor by the instigation of wars, nor by the financing of terrorist organizations and military junta, nor by the overthrow of democratic peoples of Governments and the establishment of bourgeois dictatorships. Billions and billions of dollars, pounds, stamps, yen are spent on capital for this very purpose. But just as capitalist formation has replaced feudalism, with historical inevitability socialist relations change capitalistic relationships in all spheres of human life. To deny it makes no sense! Respectable voters! The main feature of the current social protests, and I particularly want to stress this, is that these protests have grown and gained strength in the braids of the so-called well-being and developed countries, where the average standard of living is more than the standard of living in Ukraine, let alone the third world. Moreover, the epicenter of this social hurricane was formed nowhere but in the United States. The Wald Street Mass Movement is initially directed against the impunity of bankers and financial speculators, such as the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank. Other countries were rapidly relocated: Spain, Greece, Italy, Japan. And his name was reduced to one word: "take." Millions of people have united under red flags, requiring no donations from bourgeois governments and corporations, to join together for the political struggle for power for the common people. And it's no coincidence that there's an international Communist anthem over the planet. Dear voters, what is happening in Ukraine? When there is a total attack on the rights of workers, when social programmes are reduced, when legal barriers are created, when people are forced out of the street, they do not pay wages for years, but they tear down three skins by raising prices and tariffs, when capital has naturally moved from the monopolization of the economy to the usurpation of power, and the popular protest against the policies of capital. But while this protest is in a cross-sectional bed of bourgeois democracy, while the social anger of the people's masses is not aimed at political struggle against this class, it is only to extort a social tax from it, while the people's anger is being used by various units of the Ukrainian bourgeoisie in the fight against each other for power and property, while the workers face the foreheads to expect change for the better, hoping for the mercy of a good, just and civilized oligarch. I call on all workers who earn their living honestly to follow the example of workers from different countries, and this is an amazing example today. Get under the red flags and say no to capital. Workers all over the continent have one common enemy: capitalism. And workers need to understand that without a fight, there is no victory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m0.u11	Mikola Martinenko, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Next is Mikhailo Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m0.u12	Dear fellow countrymen, dear colleagues! With each passing day, the situation is exacerbated both in the middle of the country and in relations with the world. One outstanding writer said, "The greatest crime is impunity." Our authority does not want to understand this simple truth. The government sincerely believes that it is possible for both the West and Russia to be plagued with impunity. As a result, the threat is that we will once again drift away from Europe for many years. We're already in danger of taking the Euro-2012. Russia is also making very harsh statements about today’s authorities. The friendship with which the regionals were so boastful is like a cold war. The government thinks it can intimidate its own people and persecute any disorientation. Heavily ill Yuri Lucenka is physically destroyed at the hospital. On Banks, we are confident that for seven years, they can throw away Julius Timoshenko, a politician for whom millions of people voted in the elections. But impunity is always temporary. Now everyone is presenting to the current authority the bill to pay. In Ukraine, people are desperate and are preparing for new protests. Last week, the miners stormed Kabmin. Recently, the Afghans almost captured the Supreme Council. The government has prepared such an undernourished budget for millions of Ukrainians that have not yet been prepared. Compared with the 2009 crisis year, the social benefits have been halved. Countless numbers are arranged along social lines like the teeth of citizens are laid on the cheeks. As promised, the government was able to unite Ukraine but against itself. Gentlemen, you can take off from your own chairs much faster than you think. There's only one way out of the political impasse that she's driven herself into. In Brussels, Victor Yanukovic is still waiting to agree on the final version of the Association Agreement, including the Free Trade Zone. Europe does not close the door and still believes that the promises made by the President to European leaders will be fulfilled, that there will be decriminalized articles behind which opposition will be thrown into prison. The last days have been left to take advantage of this opportunity. The opposition requires, firstly, immediate support for the proposal of the factions "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" and "BUT – Fatherland" to decriminalize certain articles of the Criminal Code. Not only should they be freed from political prisoners but they too should be fully involved in parliamentary elections. If the majority does not vote in favour of our amendments, it will mean that the authorities have refused to integrate and for many years have put Ukraine on the reservation. Secondly, there is a need for a transparent and democratic parliamentary election. There must be a result that the authorities deserve. Therefore, the Fraud Bill on Elections, submitted by the majority factions at the direction of the President, cannot be approved. There's a lot of counterfeiting. We need to leave a valid law on the election of national deputies. It has been recognized by the world and has already been followed by democratic elections. Otherwise, there will be not only legitimate parliament but also legitimate authority in Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m0.u13	Sergey Vasilovich Kiwalov, faction of the Party of the Regions. Please, your performance.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m0.u14	Dear colleagues! Dear friends! A meeting of the Venice Commission was held from 14 to 15 October. There were four draft laws under consideration in Ukraine. On the election of members of the people, on the amendment to the Law on the Judiciary and the Status of Judges, which I have personally addressed. About the lawyer, about freedom of assembly. An unusually sharp discussion was the draft conclusion of a commission on a bill on the election of members of the people. During the discussion and in the text of the conclusion, the views of the members of the Commission and the experts differed. At the heart of the criticism was a simultaneous change in the electoral system, the introduction of a 5 per cent electoral barrier, the ban on the participation of electoral units and a mandatory deposit to register candidates, allegedly without prior consultation with the opposition and civil society. The representative of Spain referred to the 5 per cent voting threshold as overstated. Other representatives, including France, did not agree. The President of the Constitutional Court, Valery Zorkin, representative of the Venice Commission, said that a 5 per cent barrier could be allowed. Because in Russia, from a 7 per cent barrier this year, they dropped by 5 per cent. Speakers agreed that the Council of Europe standards allowed for a 5 per cent and lower electoral barrier. For example, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, in its resolution 1477 on Georgia in 2006, called for a reduction of 5 per cent. However, in paragraph 22 of the draft conclusion, the Commission recognized in principle that the choice of the electoral system was the sovereign right of each State. None of the members of the commission objected to our position that Ukraine has the right to choose any democratic electoral system, including a mixed one. That the mixed system is not a Ukrainian system, but a Western European invention that has emerged and is now being used in Britain, in modified forms, as well as in Germany, Italy, Hungary and other developed democracies. Many, distinguished colleagues, were surprised to hear the meeting of the Venice Commission, Gregory Nemiri, who called for parliamentary elections on the basis of the old law, although our opponents have always criticized this law. The second, with the intensity of the Commission's deliberations and even more in Ukraine, was a bill amending the Law on the Judiciary and the Status of Judges. On Thursday, we will consider amendments to this law in this room, and I hope that it will be adopted on second reading. We have taken practically all the comments of the Venice Commission into account. And the last. Regrettably, there was false information in the press that the “Conclusion” assessed the case of Yuli Timoshenko. It is my responsibility to state that neither the Timoshenko case nor the Pecher Court nor Judge Kyreev are mentioned in the published text of the draft “Conclusion”. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m0.u15	Ladies and gentlemen, the speeches are over. Regarding the proposals made by representatives of the MPs and groups, I ask that you prepare appropriate instructions, appropriate references, and letters. Ladies and gentlemen, let us move on to Tuesday’s October 18th issues. I would like to announce to you the draft Decision on Recognition, which is no longer valid, the Order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the change in the order in which time is calculated in Ukraine. [[Registration number 9297]] There is a request to consider the matter in a simplified manner. Please vote. [[10:32:29]] For 214 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to brief you on the reasons for the need to make such a determination. As you know, the Supreme Council of Ukraine decided on September 20, 2011 to change the order of calculation of time in Ukraine, that is, by this decision we moved the country into the third time zone, when Ukraine was usually in the second time zone. I must remind you, my fellow Members, that this issue has been regulated since 1996 by the decree of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, namely, we made a decision in the autumn and winter period in accordance with the decree of the Cabinet of Ministers on the transfer of the clock an hour ago and the summer in accordance with the hour in advance. At the same time, after the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted the draft decree as a decree and effectively transferred the country to a third time zone, there were many issues, such as economic, geographical, security and political nature. In particular, geographers argue that there are no grounds for the transfer of Ukraine to the third time zone, since this is contrary to the physical and geographical location and international standards. The State Commission of the One Time and Reference Frequency noted in its recommendations that this would have a negative impact on the work of the international railway, aviation, maritime and other transport systems, initiating a call to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to cancel the decision. Energy sources claim that this deprives them of the ability to reprogramme counters at the right time, resulting in imbalances in calculation and significant economic losses. The Hydrometeorological Service claims that this will result in data on the state of nature being delayed for Ukraine for one hour. This decision has been misspoken by doctors who claim that it will lead to high body loads, increase disease, risk accidents, including a 30 percent increase in mine injury and childhood disease, an increase of 10 percent in the number of ambulances, 17 percent in the number of heart attacks and strokes. In particular, Ukrainian scientists have conducted animal studies that have confirmed the negative effects of changing time to biorrhythmias and prolonging the life of living organisms. Also, honourable colleagues raised a question about what, say, European level football matches will now be broadcast in Ukraine at 22 hours 45 minutes. In general, I'm not talking about political moments anymore, it's meant to suggest that the Supreme Council of Ukraine correct the unfortunate mistake. Thank you for your attention. Please sign up. Dear colleagues, if you're wondering whose mistake I'm responsible for. Think what I'm saying, throw it all at me. Please write down if there is a need to discuss the matter. Kirilenko Viacheslav, faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m0.u16	Viacheslav Kirilenko. Please give Mr. Kendzior his word.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m0.u17	Jaroslav Kenzior.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m0.u18	Jaroslav Kenzior, MP for Ukraine! Volodymyr Mikhailovich, well, thank God that common sense has finally taken over, and that did not take much time. But all of these arguments, which you just repeated again, sounded in the hall on that day when this decision was taken. I spoke on this point when this decision was taken and I also made all the arguments, and I thought, and I think today, that the Party of Regions, in the first place, picked up and registered, and voted in favour of this issue because Russia did. It was a simple ape because Russia did. And today, of course, I think that even most parliamentary, as it were, will change their attitude, but. Well, how does it feel, first of all, this person who, as it were, raises this "magical" hand that decides, as it were, to be accepted or not accepted. I would very much like Chechetov's comrade to take the floor and apologize, first of all, to his fellow MPs and to Parliament in general what he has brought, as it were, into the harlotry of the Supreme Council. And so once again, I ask the MPs, first of all, the faction of the regions. Well, good fellow workers, have your heads to think, not to think.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m0.u19	People's Deputy Tishchenko, "BUT" faction, "The Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m0.u20	Tomenku's word. Tomenku's word.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m0.u21	Dear colleagues! I support the previous speaker in that section, that the majority of parliaments and those members who vote in favour of this kind of vote should also learn to take responsibility for their actions, and because I represent the BUT faction here, which has not voted for this decision. It's the only faction that didn't just vote but say the following. This bed needs ministers, experts, because the Supreme Council can't do astronomy, it can't change the natural flow of rivers, the rising and setting of the sun, the Supreme Council has to do legislation to have the president of the Academy of Sciences here, the head of the Commission at the time that we have the academic Yatzik, speak up, and say, "Friends, do the people, protect their rights! Where are you going?" Then that stupid decision wouldn't have been made. Now I'm listening to our colleagues from most who say, "You know, we've decided to consult experts." Where were you with those experts a month ago when you discussed the decision in a simplified manner? Then I asked: Who initiated this decision? They said, "Someone has an idea." Friends, name the name of this "someone" and who has any idea who's directing your vote? Because you're not only ashamed of your factions - you're embarrassing Parliament! And we have to give it to the journalists who raised this question, who said that we obviously have 266 national deputies who don't know that there are three time zones in Ukraine. They do not know that they have made a decision in the interest of a belt that has 4 percent of the population of Ukraine, since 95 percent of the population lives in the second watch, the so - called Kiev. So there's obviously intellectuals sitting here who didn't know the basic things that are being studied at school. [[in quotes]] Therefore, we insist that the principles of the issue should not be considered without the expertise of the Academy of Sciences, without the expertise of experts, should not be considered in a simplified procedure. And then there won't be such a disgrace that was a month ago. The faction will successively vote in favour of cancelling this order. And he believes that most will not only correct the mistake but will apologize and explain their position.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m0.u22	Mikhailo Chechetov, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m0.u23	Dear colleagues, if we go back to history, we probably had no problems when neither West Ukraine nor East Ukraine split into two parts when we were in Kiev for one time with Moscow. This time. Now the second one. Today, there is a great deal of political dust, political foam on this issue. Two presidents are meeting today in Donetsk: the President of Russia and the President of Ukraine. Two prime ministers, Russia and Ukraine, are in sync with this, never to be seen in St. Petersburg. [[B in m in s a l in]] So today there is an opportunity to find real solutions to the most complicated economic problems. And here, it's like a blow to the back. As a blow to the back, it is proposed that the order be repealed, and a new order is already being drawn up, proposing to be removed two hours from Moscow. It's like special, it's like provocation! Therefore, it would be right if we again requested professional assessments of all public institutions that could professionally assess this issue when the political foam comes off this issue and then come back again and consider this issue. But today it's so political. Once again, I repeat that a blow to the back of two meetings, in St. Petersburg and Donetsk, is being done to prevent gas problems from being solved in order not to allow our economy to rise or otherwise. We will not vote, and all those who wish the good of Ukraine call on us not to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m0.u24	Honorable fellow workers! Dear colleagues! Please, I'm begging you. Let's listen again to what we're talking about. It's about that. [[B in m in s a l in]] May I have your attention, please? That if the Supreme Council of Ukraine cancels its decision, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine will decide that the last Sunday will have a clock transferred back. I would like to stress to you once again, after that, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, and with this decree, must pass the law. This issue should be regulated by law, not by the decrees and wishes of certain political factions or individual deputies. And then the decision will be made. The best way to do that is if we go to wintertime, we don't spend summer time, and then we'll have a biological time rhythm. And you don't have to confuse politics with that. There's absolutely no politics here. But we need to make a decision today, because otherwise the decision will be made and there will be problems. And if there is a determination to act, then we must prepare ourselves for this decision. And I'd like to stop the politics on the left and the politics on the right -- there's no politics here! There is a question on which to make a wise decision. So, dear fellows, please calm down! I'll put the motion to the vote, I'll explain it again. In the event of a change in the ruling, the 1996 Cabinet of Ministers is in effect, and the last week the clock will be transferred back. After that, the Cabinet of Ministers is obliged to make a draft law within a month, and the Supreme Council will make the appropriate decision, taking into account all circumstances. We don't have to go to an empty place to find a reason for the storm. We need to make a decision. We're wrong, we're in a hurry, so let's face it. I admit it: we made a mistake. But I think that's what power is when a person admits that he's wrong. I'm betting on a draft Supreme Council decree on the recognition of such a decision that the Supreme Council of Ukraine has lost its power to change the order of the calculation of time in Ukraine. [[Registration number 9297]] Registration number 9297. Please vote. [[10:46:24]] For 216 [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm going to put the vote back on the draft of this ruling. May I have your attention, fellow officers? I'm voting on the motion to return to the draft ruling, please vote. [[10:47:02]] For 218. The decision is not taken. Let's move on. The factions, please. Region Party – 1, "BUT – Fatherland" – 85, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 57, communists – 24, "Reforms for the Future" – 20, National Party – 20, non-factional – 11. Two factions: the "BUT" faction, the "Fatherland" faction, the "Our Ukraine, the People's Self-Defense", demand a 30-minute recess. Will you make a statement? Take a break for what? Please, at the request of two factions, a break of 30 minutes is announced. The faction leaders, again, at the request of two factions, please gather in the office of the Chief of the Supreme Council. Break until 11 o'clock, 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m0.u25	Invite the national deputies to the session room so that we can continue our work. Ladies and gentlemen, two factions have announced a 30 - minute recess. During the break, a meeting of the Conciliation Council took place with the participation of the leaders of the MP factions and groups. The reasons for the interruption and the outcome of the negotiations will be informed by Ukrainian national deputy Kozemjakin Andriy Anatoliyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m0.u26	Dear fellows, the honourable ones are present! Regrettably, the theory has just been reiterated that today the majority, who are constantly talking about decriminalization, seeming to have done everything they could to soften the participation of the repressive people who are sitting, primarily Julia Timoshenko, Yuri Lucenko. Unfortunately, this has been confirmed again, because we've just come to the Conciliation Council, once again, that this is a game where only one loser is an opposition. No one will accept any appeals, annul the Pecherski judgment in an appeal, no one will even make, vote on these bills. And the honourable leader of the faction of the Party of Regions today said that. That's our problem. So Europe tells us in general that we have to do a little bit of this because we need to look more at these things, so he just said. So our faction yesterday stressed that if these questions were not put into the agenda today and the cut-off order was not voted, this bill would not be voted to show the face of today's power, which is lying constantly, manipulating these bills, our faction claims that in a short period of time the new power led by President Yanukovic has actually completed the process of establishing a dominant single-party system led by the Party of Regions in the Ukrainian Parliament. As a result, Ukraine’s higher legislative body ceased to serve as the country’s principal and sole legislative body and lost its legitimacy. Instead, the Supreme Council of Ukraine has become the office of the President's Administration, and with a wave of hands, it has only functioned to legitimize illegal and anti-national decisions. The first step in the destruction of the legislative branch of power was that the newly created majority, led by the Party of the Regions, severely violating the Constitution of Ukraine, continued its mandate for a year and a half. The next step was the illegal change of the Constitution itself. As a result, the national deputies, who walked from the political forces with specific promises to the electorate, betrayed them, removed their responsibility to protect their interests, and transferred to the service of the executive. Today, the so - called majority act only against the interests of the people of Ukraine. It was the Supreme Council that legitimized the so - called judicial reform that turned the entire judicial system into a structural unit on Banking Street. Therefore, the lion’s share of the responsibility for political repression in Ukraine, the illegal imprisonment of the leader of the opposition, Yulia Timoshenko, other opponents, lies on the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Further functioning of the legislative body of Ukraine and its current composition provides a prerequisite for the impossibility of moving forward.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m0.u27	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m0.u28	The Supreme Council is no longer a representative body that advocates the interests of the people and must immediately cease to exist. Today our faction is filing and registering, and I've just responded to you, Mr. Zarubinski, today our faction registers a decree with all the signatures of our national deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m0.u29	And we can talk about this separately. So that's our position today. This Supreme Council of Ukraine is not needed. So, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich, protesting the actions that are taking place today in Parliament, our faction will be at this rostrum all the time that you will be in session today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m0.u30	Dear colleagues, I will add to what Andrew Kožemyakin said. The Conciliation Council discussed the adoption of a draft decree by the Supreme Council of Ukraine to shorten the deadlines for preparing for the second reading of the bill on the humanization of penalties for economic crimes. This proposal was not supported. At the same time, I stressed during the Conciliation Council that we need to look for 226 votes around those proposals that are proposed for the draft law. And when it comes to preparation for second reading, it's going to be a technical question. And he suggested that we act in such a river without causing resistance to one another. It's a shame my offer wasn't supported. Ladies and gentlemen, we need to consider the inclusion in the agenda of a series of bills. I'm asking for your attention! I am voting on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2011. [[concerning the Reserve]] [[Registration number 9233]] Please vote. [[11:27:44]] For 252 Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act on Professional Development of Workers on Production. [[Registration number 9161]] Please vote. For inclusion in the agenda. [[11:28:14]] For 255 Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the daily draft Act amending the Criminal and Procedural Codes of Ukraine to improve confiscation procedures. Registration number 9208. Please vote. [[11:28:45]] For 236 Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda a draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[on the payment of one-time cash assistance for the release of military personnel, members of the military and of the primary warehouse]] Registration numbers 9171, 9171-1. Please vote. [[11:29:24]] For 262 Decision taken. A proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of a bill amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2011 is put to the vote. [[on State financial support through interest-free long-term loan to DAC Topaz]] Registration numbers 9217, 9217-1. Please vote. [[11:30:03]] For 261 Decision taken. The proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2011 is put to the vote. [[on the congregation for environmental pollution]] Registration number 9294. Please vote. [[11:30:37]] For 256 Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the draft Law on Assistance to Families Who Can’t Have Children. [[Registration number 9201]] Please vote. [[11:31:12]] For 232 Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the daily draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the registration of the place of residence and residence of natural persons in Ukraine. [[Registration number 9289]] Please vote. [[11:31:45]] For 260 Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Protection of Social Morality. [[Registration number 7132]] Please vote. [[11:32:15.]] For 263 Decision taken. There is a vote on the proposal to include in the agenda of the daily project the 100th anniversary of the birth of Hankevitch Anatoly Borisovich, a state-owned actor, a prominent shipbuilding organizer of Ukraine. [[Registration number 9072]] For inclusion in the agenda. [[11:32:48]] For 262 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, there is a motion to include in the agenda of the daily draft decree marking the 100th anniversary of the Ukrainian Scout movement. [[Registration number 9121]] Please vote. [[11:33:16]] For 235 Decision taken. The factions, please. Region Party – 181, "BUT" – "Fathership" – 0, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 9, Communists – 0, "Reforms for the Future" – 19, National Party – 20, non-factional – 6. Dear colleagues, I have a request and an offer like this. Let's talk again about cancelling the Supreme Council of Ukraine's decision to change the order of calculation of time in Ukraine. This is a very serious question so that we do not approach him lightly. I'd like the faction to comment on this one minute at a time. I would like to remind you again, my dear colleagues, that the decision of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine will be in effect, and the last Sunday of October will be translated into an hour ago. After that, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine will enact an appropriate law, and we will settle this problem by law. Otherwise, society will face the enormous challenges and risks that I have just mentioned. And there's absolutely no politics here, dear fellows. More precisely, if it is, it should be taken into account in the last instance. So I'd like to ask the factions for a minute to express themselves so that we can make a decision that will result. Taras Chernobyl, please. Then Zarubinsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m0.u31	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! In this case, as far as the law deals with timing, you're absolutely right and you're right, we support that. The only problem arises, the huge losses are already economic, problems for the population, and so on, after October 30. And so our proposal for this case is that we will not be able to adopt the law this week as a whole, we will not be able to do it properly. We propose to vote on one of the three decrees that are registered, just like a temporary document. We go through it, whether it's my decision or any other one of those two things, and we move on to a normal time of explanation, and then, in a calm manner, as the Supreme Council belongs, we prepare, write and pass the right law without the avalanche. But today we must make a decision that will by October 30 at the appropriate time bring about changes that will be required by geography no longer.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m0.u32	Please, Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m0.u33	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! When the decision that we made today was made, I understand, we want to cancel and obviously the right thing to do, because it's better to correct mistakes than to live with mistakes all the time. If there is good will and if there is an understanding of what a wrong decision has been made, it is all the more worthwhile to exercise common sense to undo it, it is a wrong decision. And in this case, I think, here I'm going to express my own point of view, that the right approach, that the time to change doesn't need to be changed, because this hour back or forth, it doesn't give anything special. And when we voted last time, we were just getting out of these crashes. And so if it's proposed to stay natural, I emphasize, the natural time for Ukrainian territory, then we have to make a decision at all so that we don't change this hour, and we have winter time, as it has been for ages. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m0.u34	Mikola Catherinechuk, then Seminoga.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m0.u35	Mikola Catherinechuk, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense", the European Party of Ukraine. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, you have in vain taken all the blame for this unfortunate mistake on yourself. There are those responsible in this room. The only thing I'd advise them not to take offense to the fair criticism that was taking place in this room today, and to the conclusions of the scientific community. I think that the Party of Regions should reconsider its vote because today the entire Parliament is ready to share this responsibility, and the entire opposition voted in favour of lifting this disgraceful decision. So, the Party of Regions, I urge you to take your lunches one way or another, and still vote this decision off and go, let's say, with the people in one leg. I also call upon the faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense" to join the blockade of the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m0.u36	Now, one minute. I announced Seminoga. Then Tomenko. Then from the Communist faction, Dry and Cibenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m0.u37	Dear colleagues, despite the fact that there are four draft decisions registered today, it seems to me that a reasonable compromise was found on the Conciliation Council yesterday, which was proposed by the Chief of the Supreme Council, namely: to make a new decision to reverse the previous decision adopted by the Supreme Council and thus return Ukraine to the normal geographical time zone in which it is located. And allowing the Cabinet of Ministers to enforce the law and the law to approve exactly the time that Ukraine needs, the geographical time in which our country is located. I think that's quite a suggestion, it's a compromise proposal, and I call on all the deputies to vote in favour of the ruling made by the Chief of the Supreme Council. I think she's going to solve all the problems. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m0.u38	Mikola Tomenko. Then Mikhailo Chechetov and Peter Cibenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m0.u39	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that the BUT faction has decided to consider a bill concerning the cessation of political repression in Ukraine, not to vote in favour of other bills. As far as the matter of time is concerned, we express ourselves and remain in this position, which requires that there be political responsibility in Parliament. The one who has made this decision must cancel it and take responsibility for it. The BUT faction did not give a single voice and explained that Ukraine could not live in Moscow, Minsk, or even Lugansk times; it had to live in Kiev’s time because 95 percent of the population in this time of Kiev lived in a worldview and political era. And as long as power lives on another time, this power and Ukraine will be in trouble. That's why we're in favour of cancelling this decision, but cancelling the decision with the hands of those who approved it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m0.u40	Thank you. Mikhailo Chechetov. And Peter Zibenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m0.u41	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! We support your proposal, it's really constructive, but only more systematic. Let the Cabinet of Ministers pass the bill. By this time, let the relevant public institutions that can professionally assess our actions give their final review here. And after that, one day we will consider both the annulment of the decree and the adoption of the law, as four Supreme Council rulings are now behind the frame. And there will be speculations about what will be passed in a two-hour order that will be taken away from Russia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m0.u42	Peter Cibenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m0.u43	Thank you. Communist faction, Peter Cibenko. Dear colleagues, I would like to continue with the series of dictionaries that I heard in Mikola Volodymyrovich Tomenka's speech: that Ukraine cannot live behind Moscow, Minsk, and I would like to add, Brussels and Washington times, because this is where such rumors come from. But back to the subject of our conversation today. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I want to address you. The faction of the Ukrainian Company supported your decision. And I understand that you've put to the vote again, referring to the statement of the management of the BUT faction that they're willing to add votes. But we see that some people are not in jobs, that is, voting is not going to be, but voting is doomed to failure. Let us, perhaps, choose a different time to vote on this decision. Once again, the faction of the Ukrainian Company will support this decision because we believe that this situation needs to be addressed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m0.u44	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we exchanged thoughts. And here I absolutely have to say that it makes sense and Mikhailo Vasilovich Chechetov, who said that we should make the right decision. [[I'm asking for your attention!]] That's how it's supposed to be! Today, we have a problem, our esteemed colleagues, which is that there is a valid decree of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, which has been in place since 1996, and we have been living at this time for 23 years, if not more. At the same time, a decree was issued by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which creates new realities. So now the proposal is that the honourable colleagues make a decision that gives us the right to implement the Order of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the mandate of the Cabinet of Ministers: for a month to draft the Law in order to settle this issue once and for all by law. Clearly, then, the conclusion lies on the surface: We must vote on this proposed decision. Why am I focusing on this, and I ask you, dear colleagues? Today, however, railways do not know what to do, whether to spend time with them or not, to carry out the Cabinet’s decree or to follow the Supreme Council’s decree. Do you understand what kind of conflict has arisen? It's not a joke, dear fellows. So I'm asking you to support me to go back to the draft ruling. After we return, accept this decision and bring society into normal life. There's no absolutely politics here, it's just a demonstration of shared responsibility and understanding of the realities that have come together. I'm asking you, Your Honor, otherwise we'll go back to making this decision from the wheel on the last day, and you understand what we're going to call in the country. So I have a request: I will put to the vote a motion for a return to the draft decree. [[Registration number 9297]] Please vote. [[11:44:21]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. God sees, I've done everything I can. I'd like to ask you not to take us in for the last time, dear colleagues, and not to show your desire to save the country. I'll bet you a vote. I am referring to the draft Act on the Elimination of Disagreements in the Text of the adopted Act on the Amendment to the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2011. [[on the stability of the aviation complex]] Is there a committee head? Then let us set aside our consideration of the matter. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Military Duty and Military Service, registration number 8790, is being announced for consideration. [[on the continuation of military service under a new contract]] Reporter – Minister of Defence Ježel Mikhailo Bronislavovich, co-rapporteur – Head of the Committee on National Security and Defence of Gricenko Anatoly Stepanovich. The proposal is to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[11:45:39]] For 213 Decision taken. Mikhail Bronislavovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m0.u45	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! Ukraine's draft law was developed by the Ministry of Defence in the initial order. The draft law provides for the regulation of the extension of military service by military personnel under new contracts, depending on the category of military personnel and their service years. The military college of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, the military appeals courts and the military local courts have been eliminated on the basis of the Ukrainian Act on Judiciality and the Status of Judges. Admitting that she lost the validity of the Supreme Council ruling of 21 February 1994 on the military titles of judges of the Supreme Court of Ukraine Military College on the basis of the Ukrainian Act on Sudour and Status of Judges in connection with the liquidation of military courts. [[No. 396612]] The law does not provide for additional funds from the state budget of Ukraine. The implementation of the law will reduce the early outflow of the most experienced officers. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine has no fundamental objection to the adoption of the bill in the first reading. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m0.u46	Thank you. Anatoly Stepanovich Grizenko, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m0.u47	Dear colleagues! This bill is absolutely correct, and it will allow, in part, to stabilize the personnel situation in the Armed Forces for those officers who have reached a significant deadline and are not ready to sign a contract for 5 or 10 years. The committee unanimously supported him, and I would like to ask the Head of the Supreme Council, if there is agreement in the hall, to support not only the first reading but the whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m0.u48	Dear colleagues, no objection? That's why I'm voting on the proposal to adopt the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Military Duty and Military Service. [[on the continuation of military service under a new contract]] Please vote. [[11:48:23]] For 268. Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, the committee proposes to adopt the bill as a law as a whole. Is there no objection? I am voting on the proposal to adopt the draft Act as a law amending the Ukrainian Act on Military Duty and Military Service. [[on the continuation of military service under a new contract]] [[Registration number 8790]] Please vote. [[11:49:06]] For 273 The law is passed. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Gastronal Measures in Ukraine is under review. [[concerning the testimony]] Rapporteur – First Deputy Minister of Culture Bogicki Yuri Petrovich, co-rapporteur – head of the Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Enterprise Mikhail Vasilovich Chechev. Your proposal, your honourable colleagues, is to vote, to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. [[11:49:48]] For 219 Decision taken. The rapporteur is Bogotsky Yuri Petrovich, First Deputy Minister of Culture. Please, Yuri Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m0.u49	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! For your consideration, a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Gastronal Measures in Ukraine is proposed. It was designed to improve the existing mechanisms for the implementation of state policy in the organization of gastronomics in Ukraine, to remedy the shortcomings in current legislation on gastronal activities that have been shown since the adoption of the Law in 2003. The Ministry has drafted a draft Act amending the law in force, which, especially with the adoption of the Ukrainian Tax Code, the Ukrainian Act "On Free System in the Field of Economic Activity" and the Ukrainian Law "On Listing Permits in the Field of Economic Activities". In particular, the bill provides for a document of a permissive nature, a certificate of a gastronomic action planned to be issued on a paid basis. The introduction of this bill will allow for the directing of funds received from fees for the formation and issuance of certificates to support gastronomic activities, artistic groups and individual performers in the area of the administration of Minculture and local authorities. The bill proposes the adoption of a professional committee on industrial and regulatory policy and entrepreneurship, as well as the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I'd like to support you. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m0.u50	Mikhailo Vasilovich Chechetov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m0.u51	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship at its meeting on 7 July 2011 reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Gastronal Measures in Ukraine, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The aim of the bill is to improve the existing mechanisms for the implementation of state policy in the organization of gastronomics in Ukraine, to remedy the shortcomings identified over time since the entry into force of the Ukrainian Act on Gastronal Measures in Ukraine. Ensure a clear interpretation of the terms of valid gastro-legislative legislation. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine concluded that, as a result of the first reading of the Ukrainian Gastroline Act, the following observations and proposals could be taken into account. After considering and discussing the bill, members of the committee determined that the implementation of the bill would allow for effective implementation of State policy in the area of gastronal affairs. But to expand the capacity of cultural institutions to provide quality services by providing a reliable source of financing for gastronomic activities that are carried out by domestic gastrolers. The bill meets the requirements of the Ukrainian Act "On Free System in the Field of Economic Activities" and provides for amendments to the Ukrainian Law "On the List of Allowances". In the light of the foregoing, the members of the committee have taken a decision: the draft Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Gastronal Measures in Ukraine to bring the Supreme Council of Ukraine to its consideration and to propose that it be accepted as a basis. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m0.u52	Dear colleagues, who insists on discussing the matter? Please sign up. Names of the national deputies. Oleg Zarubinski. Then Vladimir Karpuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m0.u53	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Dear colleagues, we can agree with the subject of the legislative initiative, the government has submitted, and with the view of the profile committee, that there are positive novices in the bill. And I wouldn't consider them so precise, even though the bill is called "The Amendment to the Ukrainian Law" "The Gastronal Measures in Ukraine." [[to the Basic Law of Ukraine]] But the list of issues that the legislator is trying to bring into line here is large enough, and the approach is quite systematic. That is to a large extent, it can be thought that this bill will streamline, in a good sense, the gastronomic activity in Ukraine. Because we understand very well that there are serious problems. And since 2003, practice has really shown that these problems do not disappear, and they get worse. The only thing I would like, as always, is to ask this question about the legal practice of passing the bill. Clearly, the subject of the legislative initiative knows about this. What if the projected public budget expenditure on domestic gastrolers is to be provided in the form of certain calculations from the subject of the legislative initiative? That it will bear what financial burden on the current budget of Ukraine. So I think that until the second reading, except that the MPs will make, and I would like to say that our faction will support this bill in the first reading, so that it will be additional information from the Kabmin, from the subject of the legislative initiative, well, at least roughly the calculations that it will cost the state budget. Although I would like to point out once again that the state has to support gastronal activities, because this is a serious tool for raising a global culture in Ukraine, which is not enough, so many of our fellow countrymen are missing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m0.u54	Vladimir Karpuk, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m0.u55	Vladimir Karpuk, "Our Ukraine". We will support this important bill. By the way, such drafts were still being initiated by Ruslana Lyzichka and in the fifth call. Because since the adoption of this law there have been certain violations, but there are also some shortcomings in the implementation of the gastronomic measures. The state has to support the gastronomic measures, because we also see in the National Palace of Arts "Ukraine," and it strengthens foreign performers on television screens often second, third, and even with the participation of highly respected individuals, and in the conduct of public action. This is not possible without the State’s support of domestic gastrolers. If we can agree with the conclusion of the scientific and expert management in the first article, in the first part of article 10, that as gastronomic measures are intended to generate revenue, and therefore no State support can be included at the expense of the state budget, we cannot agree with this in the conduct of the festivals. We've got a lot of great art groups and unfortunately, the whole of Ukraine doesn't know, let's say, right now, "Sweet Darussy" is being taken successfully in the United States. Volin recently accepted the ballet "The Cane Song" in the production of Vadim Pisarev and the Volinians were impressed by the high level of art of the Donetsk Theatre of Opera and Ballet. But without the cost of supporting these gastronomic measures in the state budget, such measures are not possible. And the level of our theaters is, let's say, much higher than the overriding gastrolers who occupy the theaters of the capital or other major cities, sometimes a second set of performers. That's why this law is necessary.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m0.u56	You all have it, don't you? Jaroslav Suhi, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m0.u57	Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you that this bill was passed in 2003. And after that, after he started working, there were repeated attempts to make changes and additions to the bill. Because, first of all, they didn't regulate gastropods on a charity basis or for charity. And second, this bill, which we can call fundamental, the changes we are now making, has not settled budgetary issues. So in general, I think why I signed up against it, I think this law can only be passed in the first reading. In the first reading, to make changes and additions that would apply to the regulation of the features of charitable gastronomics. The other one. I'd ask the Ministry to listen to the proposal. We are going to get new gastrolas before the 2012 elections to Parliament, but we're already going to be pre-election. It is quite clear that they too have some kind of bill, the law to regulate, especially in the area of payment. And that's what Zarubinsky and Karpuk were talking about. Part one of article 10, which states that the State supports the gastronal activities of domestic gastrolers at the expense of the state budget. It is quite clear that there should be either calculations or it is clear that such a proposal is to some extent inconsistent with the current budgetary financing system of the budgetary allocation authorities. So I think that by the second reading, this bill will have been worked out in detail. And the faction of the Party of Regions in the first reading will vote for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m0.u58	And Taras Blackwall, the Reform Group for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m0.u59	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues of the Ukrainian National Deputies! While our group has determined that on the first reading, we are voting for this bill, but we have noted that it is weak enough, raw enough and has a number of issues. So let's say it's essentially the equation of ultra-profit concert tours that take place there in large stadiums, in the Sports Palace, in the "Ukraine" palace, and so on, like, small gastrolas, which are often enlightened, where small, small concerts are held there, or small songs or folklores in villages, they're actually balanced, almost non-profit or completely non-profit to ultra-profits. Moreover, the position on the 10 days required also seems very questionable. It's good for those Russian or American or other visiting guests who have, there, scheduled tours for years ahead that come here to scrape money for their phonogram and all. A very different situation with the same small concerts, which are very often on the verge of a breakup in recent times, is organized especially in rural areas. We also need to review this rule, we need to introduce some differentiation for foreign and Ukrainian national groups, and in this regard we can work on a second reading. In the first reading it is possible to vote, but in the second reading as a whole it is still too raw.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m0.u60	Dear colleagues, the bill is closed. No one insists on taking part in the performances anymore? No, it's not. The committee proposes to adopt the bill as a basis. The main scientific and expert office also believes that the bill can be adopted as a basis. I am voting on this proposal, namely the adoption of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Gastronal Measures in Ukraine on Testimony. [[Registration number 8757]] Please vote. [[12:02:03]] For 262 Decision taken. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the List of documents of a permissive nature in the field of agricultural activity is being announced for consideration. [[on bringing in compliance with the requirements of legislation]] [[Registration number 8791]] Dear colleagues, I would ask you not to insist, we have already exercised the right to a recess. And I'm putting the motion to a vote on the issue of a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[12:02:45]] For 209 Decision taken. The rapporteur is Minister of Justice of Ukraine Lavrinovich Alexander Volodymyrovich. Correspondent is the head of the Committee's subcommittee on industrial and regulatory policy and entrepreneurship, Mikhail Vasilovich Chechetov. Please, Alexander Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m0.u61	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The need to adopt this bill is due to the fact that, when adopted in May of this year, the Law on the List of Permitted Documents in the Field of Economic Activity was mistakenly included in this list the certificates of the right to engage in legal activity and the right to engage in notarial activities. A special feature of the documents of a permissive nature in the field of farming is that they appear to be the subject of farming. But with regard to the listed categories, they're not allowed to do any economic activity at all. In turn, article 59 of the Constitution of Ukraine shows that lawyers in Ukraine are created to ensure the right to defence against charges and to provide legal assistance in cases before the courts and other national authorities of Ukraine, which is precisely what legal counsel is for. And article 1 of the Law on Lawyers stipulates that lawyers are voluntary, professional, social union, called under the Basic Law to promote the protection of rights, freedoms and the legitimate interests of citizens, to provide them with other legal assistance. As a result, there is a conflict not only with the Law on Lawyers, but also with the Basic Law of an approved list of documents of a permissive nature. In addition, based on the provisions of the Notaryate Act, notary activity is notarial activity, which has a full list of notarial actions in the Act. So we can say that the Notaryate Act also stipulates that a notary can't do, especially business activity, and that it's not a subject of economic activity. Besides, he can't even connect it to a lawyer's job. Thus, a certificate of the right to practice legal activity issued by a special commission of lawyers and a certificate of the right to practice notarial activity cannot be regarded as a document of a permissive nature in the designation of the Law on the Allowance of the System in the Field of Economic Activities. Therefore, there is a need to correct the error made and remove these two testimonies from the list. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m0.u62	Thank you, too. Mikhailo Vasilovich Chechetov, please make the decision of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m0.u63	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship at its meeting on 7 September 2011 reviewed the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the List of Permitted Documents in the Field of Economic Activities, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. [[Registration number 8791]] The purpose of the bill is to introduce separate positions of the Ukrainian Law on the List of Permitted Documents in the Field of Economic Activities in accordance with the requirements of the Ukrainian Law on Lawyers and Notary. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in its conclusion to the bill, found that the first reading of the draft Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Listing of Documents in the Field of Economic Activities could be adopted as a basis. [[of 7 September 2011]] After considering and discussing the proposed bill, the members of the committee determined that the activities of lawyers and notaries by their content were not an economic activity, and should therefore not be extended to the requirements of the Ukrainian Act "On Free System in the Field of Economic Activities". In the light of the foregoing, the members of the committee adopted a decision on the draft Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Law on the List of Permittive Documents in the Field of Economic Activity, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, submitted to the Supreme Council of Ukraine for consideration and proposed that it be accepted as a law as a whole. [[Registration number 8791]] Please support the committee's decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m0.u64	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please sign up for this discussion. Names of the National Deputies, please take them to the board. Peter Stepanovich Cibenko, Communist faction
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m0.u65	Thank you. Communist faction, Peter Cibenko. The faction of the Company of Ukraine will support this bill. In fact, it is quite obvious that both the activity of notaries and the legal profession is not an economic activity. In fact, that's the amount of the law, actually, that's going to run out, and so it's pretty obvious that we should vote for that document. But I'd like to say something else. We have recently adopted appropriate amendments to this law, and I am surprised that not only the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine but also the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine have not seen this obvious thing. So I want to encourage both the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Committees of Profiles to prepare more carefully documents for the deliberations of the Supreme Council so that we don't go back to looking at such absolutely obvious things. Once again, the faction of the Company of Ukraine will support this document in the first reading and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m0.u66	Vladimir Kaplienko, MP's group "Reforms for the Future!".. Next is George Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m0.u67	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues! The MPs' group "Reforms for the Future!" will vote and support this bill. We support those who have just heard from the committee about what this bill could have been put into and voted on at the same time. Two or three minutes later. Of course, it may not be necessary to include a certificate of the right to engage in legal activity or a certificate of notary activity because, in principle, it is natural for another competent authority to obtain a license or a right to exercise such activity. Not enough, today we support the minister's thesis on the application of the first article of the law on the permit system, which clearly foresees that "a document of a permissive nature is a permit, a testimony or other document issued by an authorized authority in the event that it is granted the right to do business." I mean, in principle, it's perfectly normal to offer. But there is another question. Today, both lawyers and notaries in the country work hard, and they distribute their activities in every direction of our lives. It may be necessary to regulate their relationship. Well, in principle, the Reform for the Future faction supports this thesis and will vote in the first reading, on the basis and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m0.u68	Yuri Karmazin, “Our Ukraine is the People’s Self-Defense”. Zarubinsky Oleg will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m0.u69	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, “Our Ukraine is the People’s Self-Defense”. Dear fellow MPs, look at this law that's being proposed. Two things: to exclude the right to engage in legal activities and the right to engage in notarial activities from the list of documents of a permissive nature in the field of economic activity. Is this the level that the Prime Minister of Ukraine is supposed to sign? Is this the level that the entire minister of justice of Ukraine has to report? It was absolutely fair to note the scientific expertise that wrote that "adoption of individual changes of a technical nature to individual laws leads to an unreasonable spending of budgetary resources and plenary time on Parliament, whose scope is limited", the end of the quote. [[a project contains such changes]] Vladimir Mikhailovich, how much of this rostrum did I stress that so-called butterfly laws do not produce more, and you produce them, you bear fruit, you continue to bear fruit with this majority. There's a proposal, and it's very important, in the Chief Scientific and Expert Office, to include, and to exclude from this list other documents that are not allowed, in the context of that term, which. It's a permit to make real estate leases that belong to the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and to agree with the Supreme Council on state-owned areas, it's also an exclusion from this list of certificates for the right to engage in auditorial activity. So, Your Honor Vladimir Mikhailovich, I strongly object to the adoption of this butterfly bill as a whole, only in the first reading, and then other types of lists need to be added. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m0.u70	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m0.u71	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! With all due respect to the previous speaker, I'd like to say that you obviously don't have to systematically put your head in ashes. That's when they talk about why the minister is making some kind of amendment to the law, why the Prime Minister is signing something. Dear colleagues, we are all oriented towards a legislative base in Europe. One amendment is considered in the Bundestag for two months, and it is accepted for a third month. Correction from one sentence or from one phrase. And just like in other parliamentary structures, parliaments of those countries that we consider to be super-democratic and where, in fact, parliaments have existed for 100 and 150 years. So we do not need to waste our heads in ashes and self - destruction all the time. That's the first one. The other one. As far as the bill is concerned, it is correct according to its own philosophy. Even if we were not wrong, it is to our conviction that the reduction in the number of business permits is a positive one. The less arbitrary procedures there are, the less free documents there are in business, the more active it will be, the more intense it will be, the more business activity. So we should welcome any exclusion of another document that falls within the scope of the arbitrary system. Economic activity should develop in a clear manner, not in an open - minded way. The faction of the People's Party will vote in favour of this both in the first reading and in general in favour of these proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m0.u72	Ladies and gentlemen, the bill has been discussed. The committee proposes to accept it as a whole. The main scientific and expert office believes that the bill can be adopted as a basis. In view of the objections to the adoption of the bill as a whole, I am voting first on the proposal to adopt a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the List of Permitted Documents in the Field of Economic Activities as a basis. [[on bringing in compliance with the requirements of legislation]] Registration number 8791. Please vote. Based on the base. [[12:15:02]] For 251 The bill was adopted as a basis. Dear colleagues! "For" – 251, bill adopted as a basis. The committee offered to adopt the bill as a whole. So let's maybe have a short-term task prepare. No, no, one minute. I am voting on the proposal to draft a bill for consideration in the second reading on a simplified procedure. I have the right to make such an offer. Please vote. And you're right, and I'm right. [[12:15:47]] For 253 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear National Deputies! I am announcing for consideration the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[on issues concerning the issue of licences]] Registration number 9022. I am voting on the proposal of the National Deputies to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. [[12:16:19]] For 223 Decision taken. The rapporteur is Deputy Minister for Economic Development and Trade Pavelenko Volodymyr Petrovich. Correspondent: Mikhailo Vasilovich Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m0.u73	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! You are considering a draft of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Laws of Ukraine, which proposes to cancel the mandatory provision of paper extracts, public registers for obtaining licenses. This project amends the Ukrainian Law on the licensing of certain types of economic activity, which cancels the need to submit together with the application for a licence from the Single State Register of Legal Persons and Natural Persons - Entrepreneurs. The Ukrainian Law on State Registration of Legal Persons and Business Persons is also supplemented by the rule on the provision of access to and listing of information from the Single State Register by a special authority responsible for national registration. The implementation of Ukraine’s draft Law will significantly reduce the time and costs of operators when they obtain licences or copies of them to carry out a certain type of economic activity. The adoption of the Law will simplify the procedure for licensing subjects and improve the investment climate in the state. To sum up what has been said, we propose the adoption of a draft Ukrainian Law amending certain laws of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m0.u74	Mikhailo Vasilovich Chechetov. From the committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m0.u75	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship at its meeting on 7 September 2011 reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Laws of Ukraine, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. [[on issues concerning the issue of licences]] [[Registration number 9022]] The purpose of the bill is to regulate, harmonize and systematically improve the licensing procedure. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in its conclusion from 07.09.2011 to the bill, found that the first reading of the bill could be based on the following considerations and proposals. After considering and discussing the bill, members of the committee noted that the adoption of the bill would help simplify the process of obtaining licences for the introduction of certain types of economic activity and the development of the enterprise as a whole. Taking into account the foregoing, the members of the committee will take a decision: the draft Ukrainian Act amending certain laws of Ukraine, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, submit to the Supreme Council of Ukraine for consideration and propose that it be adopted on a basis that takes further account of the proposals made by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[on issues concerning the issue of licences]] [[Registration number 9022]] Please support the committee's decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m0.u76	Ladies and gentlemen, who insists on discussing this matter? Then sign up, please. Yes, Grivkovsky refuses. Vladimir Karpuk. So, Vladimir Karpuk will be speaking? Xenia Leapina, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m0.u77	Xenia Leapina, Party for Ukraine. Dear colleagues, I would like to point out that this is a very important bill. It requires that information be placed in public access from the state register of legal, natural persons, entrepreneurs. The subject of this law almost repeats the same bill that we proposed as opposition, and about a month ago it was rejected in this room. Since this is a government bill, I ask that most people listen, if not to us, to their government. That you finally have to make open access to this register. And that's the only thing that will ensure transparency in entrepreneurial activities. This is really what an entrepreneur would ask for. So I propose to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m0.u78	Oleg Lazko, please, non-factional.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m0.u79	Thank you, Reverend Volodymyr Mikhailovich. Oleg Lazko. I will also vote in favour of this bill, because I follow the principle that the less you have to go to people, entrepreneurs, small and medium-sized businesses with all kinds of permits, the less corruption, the less you pay bribes. Unfortunately, the government takes one step and does not take the next. I think the next step the government has to take is to submit to the Supreme Council a bill on reducing the number of government apparatus. We have 500,000 officials in Ukraine today. The budget next year provides 22 billion dollars to receive this arab. To compare: for the health sector across the country, only 9 billion dollars when for the treatment of officials all over the country -- 450 million dollars -- for the treatment of Chernobyl -- is only 50 million dollars. So by reducing the allowable procedures, we have to immediately reduce the number of employees. And they're saved.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m0.u80	Ladies and gentlemen, the matter is closed. The committee proposes to adopt the bill as a basis. It is up to the committee to vote on the adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[on issues concerning the issue of licences]] [[Registration number 9022]] Please vote. [[12:23:08]] For 252 Decision taken. Honourable National Deputies, I am announcing for consideration the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine regarding the non-registration of the manufacturer's declaration of conformity. [[Registration number 9029]] I'll bet you a vote on your proposal, honourable national MPs, to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. [[12:23:42]] For 206 Decision taken. The rapporteur is Deputy Minister for Economic Development and Trade Vladimir Petrovich Pavlenko. Correspondent: Mikhailo Vasilovich Chechetov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m0.u81	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! You are considering a draft Ukrainian Act amending some of the Ukrainian laws to abolish the manufacturer’s declaration of conformity, which is designed to implement the Ukraine’s commitment plan to implement Ukraine’s obligations under WTO membership and the protocol for Ukraine’s entry into WTO, under which Ukraine has undertaken to accept the manufacturer’s declaration without registration or confirmation by the Ukrainian authorities. The draft law is intended to repeal the obligation to register a declaration of conformity and, as a result, to repeal the requirement for the identification of manufacturers and suppliers of registration numbers in the accompanying documents, as provided for in the Confirmation of Conformity Act, and to repeal the "Prohibition of Consumer Rights" Act of Ukraine. The introduction of the proposed bill will allow for the introduction of national legislation in the field of technical regulation in line with the principles of WTO, the EU and the improvement of business conditions in Ukraine. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m0.u82	Thank you. Mikhailo Vasilovich Chechetov will report on the decision of the Committee on Industrial, Regulatory Policy, and Entrepreneurship.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m0.u83	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, reviewed the draft law. The purpose of the bill is to cancel the mandatory registration of the declaration of compliance with the aim of improving the conditions of business in Ukraine and fulfilling Ukraine’s WTO obligations. The draft law provides for an amendment to article 32 of the Ukrainian Law on Standards, Technical Rules and Procedures for Conformity Assessment, to the exclusion of provisions concerning mandatory registration in the central executive authorities of the declaration of conformity, as well as to the Ukrainian law on the confirmation of conformity and protection of the rights of consumers with regard to the exclusion of requirements for the registration of declarations in the accompanying documents. During the discussion of the bill by the Ukrainian National Deputies, members of the Committee were reminded that the proposal deserved support, since its implementation would create favourable conditions for the activities of the production and import operators and would reduce the cost of time and costs for the introduction of products into circulation. The main scientific and expert administration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine concludes that the first reading of the draft law can be adopted as a basis. The main comments of the scientific and expert management relate to the form in which the manufacturer is to provide the supplier with information on the declaration of conformity of the product, the preservation of the registration of the declaration of conformity in the absence of an EU mark on it, and the preservation of the manufacturer's obligation to accompany the product, the declaration of conformity if not established by the technical regulation for the product concerned. The members of the Committee of the Supreme Council propose to adopt the bill in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m0.u84	Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up for this discussion. Vladimir Moisik passes the law. Roman Tchac, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m0.u85	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! I want to tell you that this bill, this is basically a lobbyist bill. I remind you that last session was two, there was one bill under number 6711. And twice the Supreme Council, in September and December 2010, rejected it. What is involved in this bill? I want to make a point here right now. It is not true that at the time of Ukraine’s entry into the U.S.A., we are in agreement with these standards. At that time, a special rule was written in which Ukraine was given a transitional period to regulate its legislation. The essence of this bill is the following. Today, declarations of conformity are being registered. What does that mean? That during the registration of the declaration of conformity with the manufacturer of the documented evidence of conformity of the product to its requirements. Including the existence of product testing protocols carried out in the competent laboratories with all the mandatory indicators on the conformity of production with the technical regulations developed under EU Directives. If we cancel this declaration, tomorrow Ukraine will be an area to which all the wastes from all over the world will be shipped! Next question is why this bill cannot be adopted. Today, however, there are adequate government structures in Ukraine. Today, there is a national system of technical regulation with appropriate workers and technical equipment, by the way, at the expense of the EU. Therefore, dear fellows! When we now vote even in the first reading, we will in fact make Ukraine a world garbage disposal of all products, including, I stress, food! I strongly urge everyone not to vote for this bill! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m0.u86	Valerius Kamchatny, please, the Reform Group for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m0.u87	Please give the floor to your colleague Taras Blackwall.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m0.u88	Taras Chernobyl, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m0.u89	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues, national deputies of Ukraine! You know, there's this phrase: "to be a greater Catholic than the Pope of Rome." The bill is somewhere in line with that phrase. It has already been said that there are no such direct requirements of the World Trade Organization for Ukraine, more general requirements that could be regulated in a way that is in the interests of the Ukrainian consumer. This bill effectively removes the control of the existence of documented evidence in the manufacturer of the conformity of the product with its requirements. The main requirement is the availability of product test reports carried out in the competent laboratories with all the mandatory indicators on the conformity of products with the technical regulations developed under EU directives. What is currently being done by registering a declaration of conformity. It should be understood that the adoption of this law, without the prior introduction of technical regulations in Ukraine, for every type of product, especially food, and for effective public market surveillance mechanisms in accordance with international standards, will create the possibility of entering into circulation, without any control by the State, of potentially dangerous, falsified, inefficient and counterfeit products of unknown origin. Inadequate products can cause irreparable harm to people’s health, their needs, their needs. In addition, article 42 of the Ukrainian Constitution provides for the State’s obligation to protect consumer rights by controlling the quality and safety of products. Obviously, if we come up with other norms that are currently in force in the European Union, which are practiced in the WTO, according to which the manufacturer is actually responsible, and this responsibility is reinforced by the traditions and other controls that operate in the European Union, we could consider the appropriate standard. For today, I agree, it will be a transformation.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m0.u90	Please finish your speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m0.u91	The parliamentary group Reforms for the Future, based on the needs of Ukrainian citizens, will not vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m0.u92	Mikola Kravchenko, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m0.u93	Cowchenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, I have initiated consideration of the question in Parliament at all times as to whether it would be appropriate to join the SOT. Then I almost got cut out, told about how I'm not a patriot of Ukraine, and now we're reaping fruit. At the time of joining the WTO, we lost 100,000 jobs, we lost quality of products, and today we have turned the country into a country where all the mess is being carried on and on. Instead of holding Petnicki, who was the initiator, instead of being held accountable for the billions of incomes he promised us here, we continue, as suicides, to carry out, signed by Yushchenko, the secret points of the treaty between SOT and Ukraine. They were not approved by the Supreme Council. This rule, which the Communists are now trying to vote on, will not be voted on, this is exactly what they are now stretching in order to claim to comply with the non-existent requirement of the WTO, which Yushchenko has secretly signed from the country. I have a draft ruling on this issue, but I ask the MPs, let's do it in the end, today Europe tells us, America tells us, we all point out how to behave, let us finally show a sense of pride, a sense of self-reliance and start by not voting for Bill 9029, which goes to the detriment of the health of the nation, to the detriment of the entire Ukrainian people.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m0.u94	Yuri Carmazin. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m0.u95	Yuri Carmazin. Dear colleagues, I would like to support my colleague, Tuck and Cranowola, and Kravchenka, and in addition, to say that the adoption of this law would be contrary to our article 42 of the Constitution of Ukraine, which speaks of the responsibility of the State for the safety and quality of production. That's the first one. The other one. The absolute lie is what the WTO requires of us. I quote what is said in the report of international experts. "The legislation of Ukraine, which regulates standards, technical, regulatory and procedural evaluations, has been brought into full compliance with the TBT Agreement." I mean, there's no such thing. What is it? In fact, there is a criminal bill that has justly rejected us twice. That's why, if we now vote even in the first reading, it's going to be imported and without any control from the state of production, which isn't just from countries.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m0.u96	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill is closed. The committee proposes to adopt the bill as a basis. The main scientific and expert office also considers it possible to recommend a bill to the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a basis. I'm betting on a motion for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine to reverse the registration of the manufacturer's declaration of conformity, on the basis of that. [[Registration number 9029]] [[12:36:18]] For-0 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. Ladies and gentlemen, I address the heads of the committees. In the morning we included a series of drafts in the agenda, at the evening session, those bills prepared for consideration would be considered. I'd like to take that in mind. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft National Commission Act, which regulates national security in the field of the use of nuclear energy, is being considered. [[Registration number 8714]] National deputies and the committee suggest that the issue be considered in a simplified manner. I'm betting on the vote on this proposal. Please vote. [[12:37:15]] For-195 Decision taken. The rapporteur is Head of the State Nuclear Regulatory Inspectorate, Helen Anatolyevna Mikolaychuk. The correspondent is the deputy head of the Committee on Fuel and Energy, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security, Mikola Prokopovich Romanyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m0.u97	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! Your view is on the draft Ukrainian National Commission Act, which regulates national security in the field of nuclear energy. The bill is designed to implement the Ukrainian Presidential Decree approving the decision of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine on the findings of the accident at the Japanese AES Fukushima and others. Strengthening the authority and independence of national nuclear safety regulators is one of the points in the action plan approved by consensus at the recent MAGATE General Conference. That's what the bill is all about. The bill, which is proposed to your mind, provides for the creation of a State Security Authority in the field of nuclear energy use as a collegiate central authority of the executive branch. The definition of the status of this body at the legislative level will provide a legislative basis for its institutional, stability and independence in making decisions related to the safe use of nuclear energy. The draft defines the purpose of the work and the main tasks of the commission, the principles of its activities and the order in which the mandate is determined. The bill defines the composition, the order of the formation and the principles of the functioning of the commission. The commission consists of a head and four members of the commission appointed to serve for a term of six years following the appointment of the Prime Minister of Ukraine and the release of the President of Ukraine. What is important is that the bill defines basic professional and personal requirements for members of the commission, including requirements for basic knowledge, knowledge of legislation, norms, rules and standards, culture of security, etc. Such rules make it impossible for members of the commission to be assigned to random unskilled persons. An important norm of the bill is that the National Commission should inform the public of the state of security in nuclear facilities and facilities designed to deal with radioactive wastes, the overall state of nuclear and radiation security in Ukraine and in the regions, and the measures. What is being used to improve security and the basis for making socially meaningful decisions. The bill is in line with the commitments made by Ukraine in signing international treaties: the Nuclear Safety Convention, the United Convention, the Convention on the Physical Protection of Nuclear Material. Such standards meet the requirements of MAGATES, a member of which Ukraine is a member. The draft law took into account the experience of the nuclear regulators of the world’s leading countries. The adoption of the law will serve to increase the level of nuclear and radiation security in Ukraine and will serve to improve the image of Ukraine in the world as a nation whose policy is to ensure nuclear and radiation security. Please support the adoption of the bill as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m0.u98	Thank you, too. Mikola Prokopovich Romanyuk, deputy head of the committee. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m0.u99	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! The Committee on Fuel Energy, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security has considered the draft National Commission Act, which regulates national security in the field of nuclear energy use. The subject of the legislative initiative is the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. And he proposes to the Supreme Council of Ukraine for consideration in the first reading to accept it as a basis. During the discussion and discussion of the draft, the committee noted that the issue was particularly relevant in terms of overcoming existing and new nuclear challenges. [[Registration number 8714]] Ukraine is a party to the Convention on State Security, the United Convention on the Safety of Spent Fuel and Radioactive Wastes, which it has created under the law, should support the activities of an independent body that regulates nuclear and radiation security in compliance with high standards of nuclear safety. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine made a number of observations, particularly that the adoption of the bill is an intervention in the constitutional competence of the President of Ukraine, and does not see the need for the adoption of the bill. The Committee points out that the draft law has been drafted and submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine in accordance with the decision of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine of 8 April 2011 entitled "To Enhance the Safety of the Operation of Nuclear Power Plants", introduced by Presidential Decree of Ukraine of 12 May 2011. [[Registration number 8714]] Please support the committee's proposal for a government bill. [[Registration number 8714]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m0.u100	Thank you, too. Dear colleagues, please sign up for the exchange of information on this bill. Names, please show the national MPs. Peter Cibenko, a faction of Communists.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m0.u101	Thank you. Communist faction, Peter Cibenko. Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! Ukraine’s bitter, sad experience in dealing with the Chernobyl disaster, its consequences, as well as its experience in Japan’s nuclear accident, have shown that there is a need to tighten control of the activities of these objects. What does this bill propose? It's offered, first of all, instead of the commission. Instead of establishing a national commission instead of a state inspectorate, that is to say, clearly increasing the status of this body, this is the first time. Secondly, it will function as the central authority of the executive branch with a special status within the government. And thirdly, the draft law very clearly sets out the composition of the committees, the order of its formation and the order of its functioning. So the faction of the Company of Ukraine thinks that this bill can be supported because it is acting in the right direction, in the direction of increasing responsibility and managing the activities of nuclear objects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m0.u102	Vladimir Skoubenko, faction of the Party of Regions. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m0.u103	Dear colleagues, I believe that this bill is very important to Ukraine right now. And I support the past. The previous speaker said that the nuclear security situation that had taken place in the area of radiation security was a matter of great concern today. It is particularly disturbing that our Ministry of Emergency Situations has even disappeared the phrase of Chernobyl's problems. It is alarming that we have this separation in the State: on the one hand, we have put Chernobyl's problems into a special area of responsibility, and all nuclear safety issues have been raised in the air. As a result of the recent reform, the body responsible for nuclear safety in Ukraine has declined to the level of inspection. I therefore find it very appropriate in the law to enhance the status of the body to the central executive branch with special status, with the status of the national commission. It is very important that the President of Ukraine assumes personal responsibility for the establishment of such a commission at the request of the Prime Minister. It is very important that the whole country will know the five people who make their decision to do good for the construction of nuclear stations, the people who prepare special opinions on existing security, the people who will be the most responsible, the most important in this particular direction today in Ukraine. It is very important that there will be no formations based on the principle of political expediency in the formation of commissions, and the commission will be formed by extremely high-quality professionals with: "a" – experience, second, "b" – authority in the international arena. I believe that the law is right, and I call for a vote in favour of this law. Well, when it comes to vague misunderstandings, they can all be taken into account on second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m0.u104	Vladimir Karpuk, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m0.u105	Vladimir Karpuk. Please give the word to the leader of the radical party, Oleg Valeriyovich Ljashka. His words await hundreds of thousands of people.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m0.u106	It's a commercial. Oleg Lazko, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m0.u107	Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Grigorovich! And you are not wrong that it is the Ukrainians who are supporting us, not the authority that is in the country today. As far as the substance of the bill is concerned. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I want to address you as a prominent speaker and chairman of all times and nations. We are considering the establishment of a central body of the national - national commission, whose members will be responsible for the nuclear security of the State. And how, people of good, are we considering this? In two minutes. We once ratified an agreement on the transport of nuclear wastes to Ukraine’s territory, other wastes. And today all of Western Ukraine is filled with chemicals that make people die and nature die. Today we are creating such an important government body and we are discussing this in a few minutes. Is that right? And then we wonder, what are the black people up against, what are the fukus and other nuclear stations doing. Yes, when we, a country that has survived the Chernobyl disaster, have put millions of Ukrainians out of our lives to cope with this catastrophe, we must blow on cold water today when it comes to the nuclear security of the state! We have to go through the magnifying glass, through the microscope, look at all these questions, get experts here! You were talking about a parliament that made a bad decision about the third time zone. You reproached the parliamentary majority who didn't invite scientists here, didn't invite experts. And now we're doing the same thing. We have Chernobyl, we have this catastrophe, and in 10 minutes we're discussing the adoption of the commission law. Give the niggers the benefits they take away from them, and then create.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m0.u108	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we have completed our consideration of the matter. Vladimir Kaplienko, please, one minute, you have the right to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m0.u109	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. You know, the previous speaker today talked a lot about what we're creating in some kind of organ. I'd like to remind you that we don't create an organ. We're raising the level of active authority that today will receive the special status of the National Commission, which is implementing state regulation in this area. In particular, if we all know, for today, about 45 to 50 percent of the electricity in Ukraine is produced at the expense of nuclear stations, and security needs to be taken care of. Although when we discussed this bill at a parliamentary group meeting, we entered into. The first is a violation of what appears to be 106 articles of the Constitution in part fifteen, when the introduction of such bills belongs solely to the competence of the head of Ukraine, President Janukovich of Ukraine. But, on the other hand, there is a decision by the National Security and Defence Council that the Prime Minister is asked to make. That's why we've made decisions for 100% and full support of this bill in the first reading on the basis and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m0.u110	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we have completed our consideration of the matter. Clearly, there is no reason for us to create politics in this regard. It's about the fact that there is a state inspection of nuclear regulation in Ukraine and why it works responsibly, it works effectively. But taking into account what is happening in the world and what our colleagues have been talking about, the issue of increasing the status of this body and the establishment of the National Commission. So there is absolutely no reason to talk about a certain haste and to put all the other questions here. If the Supreme Council supports the government's proposal and goes to the adoption of the relevant law, then we can talk more deeply, specifically about how this structure will work and how it is urgently needed by Ukraine. And despite certain differences about the fact that the creation of central executive bodies is the prerogative of the President of Ukraine, I am nevertheless putting forward the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft National Commission Act, which implements the national security regulation on the use of nuclear energy. Registration number 8714. Please vote. [[12:50:56]] For 259. Decision taken. Honourable National Deputies are now being submitted to the Supreme Council of Ukraine for consideration of the draft Law on the Treatment of Derogated Nuclear Fuels. Registration number 8795. The rapporteur is Deputy Minister of Energy and Coal Industry Makucha Vladimir Aleksiyovich. The focal point is the head of the Committee on Fuel and Energy, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security, Mikola Volodymyrovich Martinenko. I'm voting on the committee's proposal to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. [[12:51:42]] For 208 Decision taken. Volodymyr Alexiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m0.u111	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! A bill on the management of spent nuclear fuel prepared by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to establish legal principles for the management of spent nuclear fuel in Ukrainian nuclear power stations, the establishment of a single complex for the management of the decommissioned nuclear fuel of the state-owned enterprise "Crnobylska AES" and the construction of a centralized repository for the storage of spent nuclear fuel reactors of the type of BIA of domestic nuclear power plants. The construction of a centralized shelter, the envisaged energy strategy of Ukraine until 2030, was approved by the Cabinet of the United States of America. [[No. 145]] The technical and economic justification for investments in the construction of a centralized shelter has been approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine since February 4, 2009. I should point out that, for the time being, the nuclear fuel used by Ukraine's nuclear power plants, with the exception of the Zaporezian AES, for which a dry container-type storage facility has been being used since 2001, is being exported for processing and temporary storage to the Russian Federation. The cost of Russian specialized nuclear fuel storage and processing companies has a steady trend towards growth every year. During the past 10 years, the cost of service has increased almost fourfold. Furthermore, since 2013, Ukraine has to accept from Russia for storage and further disposal the highly active radioactive waste generated by the processing of processed nuclear fuel from the Ukrainian AES. Thus, the introduction of its own centralized nuclear fuel depot of the Ukrainian AES, which has been set to operate for 100 years, will avoid monopolistic dependence on Russian companies, strengthen the energy security of the state, and allow the economy to save nearly $100 million a year. In doing so, I would like to point out that the nuclear fuel that has been deployed contains a large number of nuclear materials that can be used effectively in the future. In accordance with article 37 of the Ukrainian Law on the Use of Nuclear Energy and Radiation Security, a technical and economic analysis of the investment has been carried out of the three variants of the site for the location of the repository with environmental, radiation and techno-economic criteria and the recognised priority location of the shelter located in the decontamination zone, which has been exposed to radioactive pollution, as a result of the Chernobyl disaster, where there is no permanent resident population, and the area of influence of the centralized repository does not go beyond that area. All the necessary supporting material was added to the bill, namely: the positive findings of State experts, including environmental, nuclear and radiation security, which confirm security in the operation of the repository, the report on measures to inform neighbouring States of the possible impact of the safe haven in the cross-border context, the decision of the administration of the alien zone, whose jurisdiction is the issue of the legal regime of the territory which was exposed to radioactive pollution as a result of the Chernobyl disaster, the agreement and placement of the centralized shelter in the alien zone. It should also be noted that the bill provides for the customer’s directing of 10 percent of the total cost of building a shelter, amounting to nearly 370 million dollars for the construction of social objects in Slavutic, Ivankovsky, and Polish areas of the Kyiv region. In view of the above and the urgency of resolving the issue of dealing with the decommissioned nuclear fuel of domestic nuclear power plants, I ask you, honourable national deputies, to support the proposal of the Fuel and Energy Complex Committee to adopt the bill in the first reading on the basis and as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m0.u112	Thank you, too. Mikola Volodymyrovich Martinenko is head of the Committee on Fuel and Energy, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m0.u113	Ladies and gentlemen, your attention has been given to the draft Law on the Treatment of Decommissioned Nuclear Fuels, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. [[Registration number 8795]] [[See the article “Young People Ask... ” in the July ……]] The adoption of the Act requires, firstly, the approval by the Supreme Council of a government decision on the location, design and construction of a central repository of spent nuclear fuel reactors such as the IDP of domestic nuclear stations. Such a sanction is required in accordance with the Ukrainian Law on the Order of Decisions on the Placement, Design, Construction of Nuclear Installations and Objects for the Treatment of Radioactive Wastes of Public Use. Secondly, the need to strengthen the country's energy security and the security of the exploitation of Ukrainian nuclear power stations. Thirdly, the possibility of saving significant costs on the basis of the cancellation of temporary storage services, I emphasize the temporary storage and processing of spent nuclear fuel in the Russian Federation, the price at which it is increasing steadily and the preservation of Ukraine's potential nuclear energy resource, since 97 percent of the nuclear materials that can be used effectively in the reactors of future generations remain in the nuclear fuel. In fact, the bill determines the future of Ukraine's nuclear energy. According to the Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the project can be adopted on the basis of these observations and proposals, which are not of principle. The introduction of the bill does not require additional costs from government and local budgets. The bill is supported by the Committee on Budget Affairs, the Committee on European Integration, the Committee on Environmental Policy, environmental management and the elimination of the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster. In the light of all the circumstances, the committee recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine accept as a whole the government draft of the Nuclear Fuel Act (registration number).
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m0.u114	Microphone, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m0.u115	Registration number 8795. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m0.u116	Dear National Deputies! Please sign up for the discussion. Please put the names of the national deputies on the information board. Vladimir Skoubenko, faction of the Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m0.u117	I give the floor to my colleague Seminogue.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m0.u118	Anatoly Seminoga, microphone please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m0.u119	Dear colleagues, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich! The thing is, what are we being offered today by this bill? We are invited to bless the location of a centralized reservoir of spent fuel in the Chernobyl area, that is, 100 kilometers [100 km] from the city of Kiev. The fact that the need to build such a shelter in Ukraine has matured and matured is a fact. But the question is, why is it right under Kiev? What, there was no other place in Ukraine where such a dangerous nuclear facility could be located? Again, the so - called public hearings raise the same question. Indeed, public hearings were held in 2008 in Slavotici. And at these public hearings, a decision was made to recommend approval of the location of the shelter at the local advisory referendum in most of the inhabitants of Ivankowski, the Polish district and the town of Slavotic Kyiv region. Sadly, this was not done. At the same time, I would like to remind you that in our country, there is a State-wide program to turn the "Hidden" facility into an environmentally sound system. How can we turn this Hidden object into a secure system when we're going to build a new nuclear facility there today? Again, a timeless nuclear object, for once again, the term of service of this nuclear object has not been fixed, will be there forever. That's why I think it's impossible to adopt this bill either in the first reading or in the second reading. As a minimum, scientists need to work in this direction and find a more suitable place than the Chernobyl area to place such a nuclear facility. And please don't support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m0.u120	Taras Blackwall, MP's Reform for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m0.u121	Please pass the word to Vladimir Kaplanka.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m0.u122	Vladimir Kapliyenko, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m0.u123	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the MP's Reform Group for the Future has considered this bill and this is what we want to say. Of course, if there is a desire to save money by dumping wastes in Ukraine rather than transferring them to Russia, it is good. If there is a political will to create such burials in the Chernobyl area, that's good. If this increases Ukraine's security, including energy, energy independence, nuclear security, that's good. But there are a few questions. First question. Ukraine today is not defined by the concept of nuclear energy development. I remind you that today the total power of nuclear power stations that generate electricity or electricity in the network is up to 45 to 50 percent. I mean, the concept of the development of these atomic blocks depends on our future. And Ukraine lacks the capacity to design and implement new reactor types and reactors of a new generation. We're only based on using VVER-type reactors, RBMC. [[I remind you, it crashed in Chernobyl.]] So it's only WVER-440 and we're operating in Ukraine, and that's the kind of shelter we want to build in Chernobyl. So maybe we need to expand, when we consider this bill in the second question, and in what concept will Ukraine move in the next, what kind of waste are we going to dump in the Chernobyl area? And the second question. Will this not be used in further disposal of radioactive wastes from other countries? I remind you that. is used not only in Ukraine and not even in Russia, but also in Bulgaria, Hungary and so on is a question. The parliamentary group, despite this, supports this bill on the first issue, but very insistently requests that it be further developed for a second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m0.u124	Ladies and gentlemen, the bill has been completed. The committee suggests that it be accepted as a whole. The main scientific and expert management of warnings about this does not make that statement. Is there no warning to take for granted? I can't see. I am voting on the proposal of a committee on acceptance as a basis and as a whole in the draft Law on the Treatment of Nuclear Worked. Please change. I asked you. There's a denial. Take that vote off. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Nuclear Fuel Management Act. [[Registration number 8795]] Please vote. [[13:03:24]] For 261 Decision taken. Dear National Deputies, given that there is a denial of acceptance as a whole, I ask the committee to prepare it for second reading. Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m0.u125	Dear colleagues, we just got a bad news. The President's visit to the European Union, Brussels, was cancelled. The main date that has been called the last time, October 20th, as the last rubble, followed by the signing of the Free Trade Agreement, is the signing of documents on associated membership, and according to the relevant article of the Constitution of the European Union, Ukraine is applying for membership in the European Union. A cancelled visit means the last warning, perhaps. The European Union also hopes that European values, human rights, democracy, freedom of speech, the rule of law, and a stop to political persecution will prevail in Ukraine. This is what the representatives of the European Union made clear to us yesterday in the head of the faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m0.u126	Finish it, Ivan Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m0.u127	and factions of socialists in the European Parliament. Friends, we have made one request to you, this is the last request, we will ask no more, the time will come, you will ask. We have asked to speed up the consideration of the Presidential Amendment Bill, which allows Ukraine to work for a ratified United Nations Convention in Ukraine, where there is a division of guilt for corruption, guilt for political action, fault for economic or administrative decisions. What are we doing? We have condemned a person in Ukraine and continue to judge people according to an article that has been going from one codex to another since 1927, and so on and so forth. You promise to change that sometime. I'm sorry, once the bones are white. We won't let that happen. We're leaving the hall in protest. You don't want to take a human offer, a human offer. There's nothing business around here. It's more about the future than it is now, it's about the current government and the current politicians, maybe more than those who have worked before, and you know it. You refused. We have never seen such an antihuman, antihuman hall. Work in the hall with your hand wringing, stamp. We're leaving the hall in protest.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m0.u128	Dear National MPs, the draft Act amending article 40 of the Ukrainian Insurance Act is under review. [[on the enforcement of legislation]] [[Registration number 8754]] The committee suggests that the issue be dealt with in a simplified manner. I'm voting on this proposal. [[13:07:01]] For 204 Decision taken. Dear National Deputies! The rapporteur is the first deputy head of the State Commission for the regulation of financial services markets, Litvin Andri Volodymyrovich. I'm warning you, he's not a son, he's not a relative. Yes, please. The narrator will be speaking. Peanut.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m0.u129	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! The draft law, which has been put forward for your consideration, is designed to bring some of the provisions of the Ukrainian Insurance Act into line with the new edition of the Ukrainian Law on Prevention and Opposition to the Legalization of the Proceeds Received by Crime or the Financing of Terrorism. The legal regulation of the bill is based on the use of information on financial transactions, which has become the subject of financial monitoring, which is the secret of insurance, but is essential for the execution of tasks entrusted to the central authority of the executive branch on financial monitoring. The bill provides for the inclusion of the central authority of the financial monitoring authority, which is the State Financial Monitoring Service of Ukraine, in a list of bodies with which insurance companies may provide information that contains the secret of insurance. Such information will be made available to the Government in accordance with the Ukrainian Law on Prevention and Opposition of Legalization of the Proceeds Received by Crime. The adoption of the bill will help to improve the legal field in the area of countering the legalization of proceeds obtained by criminal means or the financing of terrorism. [[washing]] Based on what we have learned, please support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m0.u130	Thank you. From the committee the first deputy head of the Committee on Finance, Banking, Tax and Customs Policy, National Deputy Pecklusenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m0.u131	Dear colleagues! Respectable voters! Indeed, the bill aims to strengthen the rights of borrowers who are insured and to strengthen the liability of the insurance market. We know that there is no confidence in the insurance market in Ukraine today. It is with a view to strengthening this confidence, opening up the capacity and ability to avoid any pyramids on the insurance market that it is proposed to amend the law. In this regard, the Committee proposes to take the floor and, if there are no comments, a “general” proposal is proposed. Please support this proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m0.u132	Ladies and gentlemen, please sign in. Put it on the board. If we don't, we'll vote. Mikhailo Vasilovich Chechetov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m0.u133	Dear colleagues, respected by Vladimir Mihajlovich, there was an attempt by the late faction to link the adoption of the law with the change in the work of the President. [[I think they've gone into political oblivion.]] The time has passed when the agenda on the international scene of the President's activities was formed in Brussels or Washington. We are living in a new time when the agenda is being established in Ukraine, Ukraine. It's time to remember that! And time is different, and the President is another, a true national leader! At that time, the people who left the Parliament today were forced to flee to Lithuania, as were the people who were in political ruin. With regard to the law, and it was absolutely stated by both the Deputy Minister and the Deputy Head of the Committee, the law should be supported, and it was in line with the economic strategy of the President and the Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m0.u134	Ladies and gentlemen, the committee proposes to adopt the bill as a basis. The main scientific and expert office also supports the idea of adopting a bill as a basis. I'm betting on a motion for a vote on the adoption of the draft Act amending article 40 of the Ukrainian Insurance Act. [[on the enforcement of legislation]] [[Registration number 8754]] Please vote. [[13:11:46]] For 253 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft Law on the Moratorium is under review. [[B in m in s a l in]] All of it? The committee proposes to adopt a bill as a whole. Is there a denial? None. I'm betting on a motion for a committee to adopt a draft Act amending article 40 of the Ukrainian Insurance Act as a whole. [[on the enforcement of legislation]] Registration number 8754. Please vote. [[13:12:33]] For 248 The decision has been taken, or the law has been passed. Thank you. The draft Law on the Moratorium for Privatization of Income State and Municipal Enterprises, registration number 4226, is being announced for consideration. [[by 2012]] Rapporteur – Ukrainian National Deputy Vladimir Andriyovich Danilenko, co-rapporteur – head of the Committee on Economic Policy Committee Alexei Vitaliyovich Plotnikov. Is that what you're suggesting? I'm voting on this motion, please vote. [[13:13:18]] For 215 Decision taken. Please, Vladimir Andryovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m0.u135	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The share of state and municipal property in businesses in Ukraine is now less than 15 percent. This situation is one of the main causes of the financial and economic crisis in Ukraine and the conditions for its deepening. The reckless and hasty privatisation of state-owned and municipal-owned enterprises has led to a sharp decline in the economy of Ukraine, has led to a decline in the welfare of citizens, has led to the destruction of rural economic foundations, increased the state's irresponsibility for economic policy and continues to have extremely negative socio-economic consequences for the population of Ukraine. In the face of a financial crisis, the sale of state and municipal enterprises, the more profitable and strategic economic ones for the state, is an extremely undervalued option. So by the time the bill was passed, at least last year, we would have been able to save ourselves from the disgraceful sale of "The Shrine," but probably this bill had not been submitted to the Supreme Council of Ukraine for so long to sell the business mentioned above. What is the essence of the bill? This bill is aimed at avoiding the privatization of profitable state and municipal enterprises in times of economic crisis. The project was proposed by 01.01.2012 to introduce a moratorium on the privatization of state and municipal enterprises, which, according to the 2008 financial activity, are profitable, including for the alienation of state and municipal shares, stakes in statutory capitals of mixed property enterprises and joint ventures with foreign investment, if such corporate rights generate income in the corresponding budgets. I realize that at this point, the given date is irrelevant, because the bill has been under consideration for over 2.5 years, so I suggest you make it out.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m0.u136	Microphone, please turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m0.u137	and continue the moratorium until 2015. And I ask you to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m0.u138	Alexy Plonikov, please, from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m0.u139	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! The Economic Policy Committee discussed at its meeting on 5 April 2011 the draft Ukrainian Law on the Moratorium for Privatization of Income State and Municipal Enterprises by 2012, submitted by the People's Deputy Danilenko. [[Registration number 4226]] The draft Ukrainian Law, initiated by the National MP, proposes to introduce a moratorium on the privatization of state and municipal enterprises, including the alienation of state and municipal shares, particles, rations in statutory capitals of enterprises of mixed form of property and joint ventures with foreign investment, if such corporate rights generate income in the corresponding budgets. [[by 2012]] According to members of the committee, the ban on privatization, which creates conditions for investment in modernization, technological alternation and production, is not economically justified. Moreover, taking into account the investment attractiveness and the money coming from the possible sale of the company’s stock package, they may be significantly smaller if they are privatized after a certain period of time. In view of the above, Ukraine’s draft Law on a Moratorium for Privatization of Income State and Municipal Enterprises is proposed to be rejected. [[by 2012]] The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine does not support this project either. The chief scientific and expert administration of the Supreme Council's apparatus also concludes that the first reading of the bill makes it advisable to reject it. So the Economic Policy Committee recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine reject the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m0.u140	Ladies and gentlemen, who insists on discussing this bill? Please sign up if you need to. Names of the national MPs, please. Peter Cibenko, a faction of Communists. Then – Soročinska Kirilenko will perform.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m0.u141	Thank you. The Communist faction Peter Cibenko. Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! The area of privatization is an area of activity where, in recent Soviet years, and in the post-Radians period, the greatest fairy tales of our possible happy future have been told. Starting with privatization, we're going to fill our market with goods, that we're going to create additional jobs, that we're going to provide people with a decent salary, budget accounting and so on, and so forth. Where is it after 20 years of economics, the national economy of Ukraine and the Soviet Union have been looted? That's why it's the right bill, it needs to be supported. You can talk about what's being said, to some extent, late, but it's not our fault or the fault of our colleague who passed this bill. Because of a similar type of bill, they have repeatedly submitted to the Hall of Assembly of the Supreme Council of Ukraine but have not been accepted. In fact, I completely agree with the author's logic that there are no moratoriums on privatization at all. You want to privatize the enterprise, please, but take the enterprise killed, the business that doesn't work today, the business that doesn't create the right material benefits, and bring them to the level of those who will be profitable. So the faction of the Company of Ukraine certainly supports this bill and calls on representatives of other factions and groups to support it by voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m0.u142	Soroczynska Kirilenko, reform group for the future, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m0.u143	Draft Law on the Moratorium for the Privatization of Income State and Municipal Enterprises. [[by 2012]] The MP's "Reforms for the Future" group does not support the bill. Businesses that are profitable in 2009 can become profitable in 2010. And on the contrary, those who have been losers can become profitable in the following year. In this regard, it is not appropriate to ban the long-term privatization of an enterprise as a result of its activities for one year. If it is necessary to prohibit the privatization of specific state-owned enterprises, they should be included in the list of property rights that are not subject to privatization, which will be approved by law. Therefore, the MP's Reform for the Future does not support the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m0.u144	Jaroslav Suhi, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m0.u145	Dear colleagues, there is no doubt that so many mistakes and abuses were made during the Ukrainian specific privatization, that is clear. And the actual analysis of the efficiency of state-owned casinos and private enterprises shows a very small difference in income, first and secondly, in the employment of people and in wages. But that's not the point. I think in this case the author of the bill changes the concept. It should not be a moratorium, but rather a more stringent state control over the privatization process itself. Remember, please, the Crimson Stalmoiselle. How much noise, bells, how many crocodile tears -- as luck would have it, were sold for 24 billion. I want to remind you, at the same time, there was a bill by Cibenko Simonenka for the return of savings. We had the opportunity to return about 9 billion of those 24 to 30 percent of our savings to our citizens. And the money's gone. And after that day, we've created three commissions, and no one can tell us this day, to answer the question, where did the money from privatization go? And one more thing. Please tell me, have you heard a lot of such cases when the Fund of the Keeper of Ukraine is suing for failure to make investment commitments by one buyer or another? And do we have a procedure when we can go back? Well, we've been taking a decree on agricultural engineering, on the Herson factory. Where is he now, privately owned, owned by the state? I think it's the wrong idea to stop privatization. Because then you have to count the losses that have been incurred, if they're municipal property, and the losses that the government budget has incurred, and the budget in place. And that's pay. budgeters, and this is the same funding for medicine in the whole of the budget area. And here I want to support my colleague Soroczynski, she said the right thing: you can just put a list together and put it in a list of enterprises that are not privatized. This would be better than counting the profit of the previous year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m0.u146	Ladies and gentlemen, the matter is closed. The Committee and the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority came to the same conclusion: they made proposals on the need to reject the bill. In accordance with the Rules, I will put a vote on acceptance as a basis. In the absence of the support of the Supreme Council, the bill will automatically be regarded as rejected. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the proposal to adopt the draft Law on the Moratorium to privatize profitable state and municipal enterprises. [[by 2012]] [[Registration number 4226]] Yes, and where the vote is. [[13:24:03]] For-24 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. Honourable National Deputies, the draft Act amending article 1 of the Ukrainian Law on the Enforcement of Housing Rights of Residents is under review. [[Registration number 4748]] The Committee and the National Deputies propose to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. I'm betting on the vote on this proposal. Please vote. [[13:24:40]] For-198 Decision taken. Valery Grigorovich Kamchatny, please. We've made the right decision already.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m0.u147	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! Your attention is given to the draft Ukrainian Act amending article 1 of the Ukrainian Housing Rights Act. The draft law proposes to amend article 1 and to remove from the scope of this law the dormitories which form part of the property complexes of state ownership that provide for the activities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the President of Ukraine. The Ukrainian Act "On the Enforcement of Housing Rights of Guests" stipulates that hostels which are subjects of state and municipal property rights and to which the Act is extended are subject to transfer to the property of territorial communities. At the same time, article 3, paragraph 6, of the Ukrainian Act on the Management of State Property Objects stipulates that the management of property that provides for the activities of the President of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine shall be carried out in accordance with the individual laws. Therefore, we believe that, with a view to bringing Ukraine's Act on the Enforcement of Housing Rights of Guests in accordance with the laws that define a special legal regime of state property that ensures the activities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the President of Ukraine, members of our committee, the Committee on Rules, MP's ethics and the provision of the activities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the amendment of the bill. I would stress that the implementation of the law will not require additional financial costs from the State budget of Ukraine, but will only contribute to the administration of state property, which will ensure that the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the President of Ukraine operate according to their needs. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m0.u148	Sergey Fedorovich Maybeard, head of the Committee's Subcommittee on Construction, Urban and Housing and Regional Policy. Please, about the position of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m0.u149	Ladies and gentlemen of the people! The Committee on Construction, Urban and Regional Policy and the Regional Policy considered a bill amending article 1 of the Ukrainian Housing Rights Act, No. 4748 of 1.07.2009. The Chief Scientific and Expert Office, in its opinion of 17th 2009, indicated that Bill No. 4748 did not comply with the requirement of article 22, part three, of the Ukrainian Constitution and excluded residents of residences under the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the President of Ukraine from exercising their constitutional right to housing. The Committee, at its meeting on 18.11.2009, decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine Bill No. 4748 of 1.07.2009, following its consideration on first reading, to reject. The Committee sent its proposal to the Supreme Council in due course. The Committee sent its proposal to the Supreme Council in due course. I would like to draw attention to the distinguished people's deputies that, following the introduction of Bill No. 4748 by the Committee, Bill No. 8678 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine was prepared and introduced on 15.06.2011 for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, amending certain legislation on improving the legal solution to the enjoyment of the housing rights of residents of residences, which addresses the problems of the inhabitants of the population in an integrated manner. 08.09.2011 The Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted Bill 8678 on second reading and in general, which entered into force legally since 30.09.2011 as a law. According to it, hostels that are owned by the State, apart from dormitories of the forces and dormitories of State higher education institutions, as well as dormitories included in the charter funds of the shareholders'societies established in the privatization and corporate process, are to be transferred to the communal property with the right to privatize accommodations for the residents of the hostels who are lawfully residing in them. So Bill 4748 has lost its relevance.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m0.u150	Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m0.u151	I therefore ask for the support of the Committee's proposal and for the rejection of Bill No. 4748. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m0.u152	Thank you. Dear national deputies who insist on discussing this matter, please. Well, maybe we'll see. Please sign up. Names of the national deputies. Valerius Kamchatny.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m0.u153	You can get out of here, can't you?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m0.u154	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m0.u155	Thank you. Well, the previous committee reporter, I would say, didn't point out that there are actually some contradictions in the legislation today, and I said that when I reported the bill. Why did we forget that the Law on the Management of State Property Objects stipulates that the management of property mentioned is carried out in a manner defined by individual laws. That's the first one. It's different. A report from the committee said that there are certain categories of hostels that are not distributed to which this regime is not distributed. Let's say the dormitories of higher education institutions, defenses, power structures, and so on. It can't be. That is, there is an exception, and that is the exception that should be made in relation to the innkeepers who provide for the activities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the President of Ukraine. There is absolutely no violation of the Constitution, so this bill can be supported and supported. Otherwise, the Supreme Council of Ukraine will have particular problems in cases where someone will have to be accommodated in a dormitory and there are no vacant places, since everything has long been privatized. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m0.u156	Dear National Deputies! The committee proposes to reject the bill. The main scientific and expert office did not support the legislative initiative. I'm voting on a regulatory proposal for the adoption of the draft Act amending article 1 of the Ukrainian Housing Rights Act. [[Registration number 4748]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:31:48]] For two. The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose to you a draft Act amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts. [[on responsibility for non-recurring bank deposits]] The reporter is Yuri Volodymyrovich Prokopchuk. I'm voting on a motion to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. Please. He was to speak both from the committee and as the author. [[13:32:24]] For-191 Decision taken. Reporter, please. I can't see. Sign up for the discussion, dear colleagues. The names of the national deputies please be highlighted. Mikhailo Chechetov. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m0.u157	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues, we have considered this law very carefully on the faction council today for an hour, and in fact Bill 4334 Jury Prokopczuk is not positive, nor is he constructive. I don't know what he was writing for, and apparently he didn't even come to the hall because it was embarrassing to sound it. We therefore propose that the legislative framework be rejected naturally and that there be no such empty, non-legislative provisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m0.u158	Thank you. Who else insists on the performance? None. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine. [[on responsibility for non-recurring bank deposits]] [[Registration number 4334]] [[13:33:44]] For-23 Decision taken. The bill was rejected. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft Law amending articles 122 and 124 of the Code of Administrative Offences is being submitted to your consideration. [[on the regulation of road traffic relations]] Rapporteur, National Deputy of Ukraine, Anatoly Griesenko, co-rapporteur, head of the committee's subcommittee on the law enforcement of Vladimir Malishev's activities. I'm voting on a motion to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. [[13:34:36]] For 204 The decision is not taken. Rapporteur: National Deputy of Ukraine Anatoly Grizenko, co-rapporteur, Vladimir Stepanovich Malishev, Head of the Committee on Law Enforcement. Please. Yes, please sign up for a discussion. Names of the national MPs, please. Valerius Ananiyovich Bebelz, then Mikhailo Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m0.u159	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! Well, in large numbers, you could say about this bill what Chechetov's colleague just said about the previous bill. This is about 122, about 124 articles of the Code of Administrative Offences in the "Road Traffic Violations" section. All the issues today are settled in current legislation, and therefore this bill, which is proposed, is nothing new in the content of the legislation that is in force. So there is a proposal to withdraw this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m0.u160	Thank you. Mikhailo Chechetov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m0.u161	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! Well, that's the same thing, a bill from the previous round, when the author wrote, didn't know what he was writing about, what he was writing about, maybe just to shed some light on himself before the election, to remind the electorate of himself. But we also considered it in detail for half an hour and found no positive in Anatolia Stepanovich Grizenko's bill. This is an absolute nuisance of the legislative framework, so we suggest that it not be voted on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m0.u162	Dear National Deputies! The committee suggests that the subject should be returned to the right of legislative initiative for further development, and the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority considers it appropriate to reject the bill, so I will put it to a vote on its acceptance as a basis. If this proposal is not accepted, it will be rejected. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Law amending articles 122 and 124 of the Code of Administrative Offences. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:37:25]] For-0 The bill was rejected. Dear National Deputies! I am announcing for consideration the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on countering trafficking in human beings. [[Registration number 8702]] The rapporteur is Ukraine's national deputy, Caplienko Volodymir. Correspondent is the head of the committee's subcommittee on law enforcement, Victor Schemchuk. I would like to vote on your motion to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[13:38:04]] For 204 Decision taken. Please, Vladimir Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m0.u163	Dear colleagues! Respectable citizens! Today, I present you with a draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation against trafficking in human beings. The bill's drafting group considers this law to be human, aimed exclusively at protecting the rights and freedoms of Ukrainians. It's worth noting that human trafficking is a modern form of slavery, and every day we're trying to focus society's attention on this problem, even recently adopted the relevant bill of our colleague Zarubinsky, but to this day the problem is still unresolved. Everyone knows that in order to engage in human trafficking, it is no longer necessary to kidnap them in the streets, as it was in the Middle Ages, and to export them by force abroad. They go there voluntarily: through marriage agencies, through all kinds of institutions that collect and transmit information and smuggle our citizens abroad. The main supplier countries are Thailand, China, Nigeria, Albania, Bulgaria, Moldova and, unfortunately, Ukraine. Ukraine is a country of origin, transit and destination for men, women, and children who are exported abroad for sexual exploitation and forced labour. Ukrainian victims succumb to trade in Poland, Russia, Turkey, Italy, the United States, Canada, and so forth. Women are forced into prostitution or into domestic slavery, forced to work in the field of textile or light industry. Most Ukrainian men who were victims of trade were subjected to forced labor in construction, agriculture, and the sea. The statistics are terrible. In line with the reports of the United States of America, reports by the Prosecutor’s Office and the Ministry of Internal Affairs, crimes under articles 149 and 302 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code have shown that criminal offences in this area have increased in Ukraine over the past three years. Official statistics in government and non-governmental organizations at the United Nations show that 98 percent of human trafficking is related to going abroad, the goal of which is tourism, and secondly, to getting to know.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m0.u164	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m0.u165	The third is employment, the fourth is immigration. We want to put an end to this bill and commit organizations or businesses that export or collect information. By exporting people abroad, they will receive appropriate licenses, which will be monitored continuously by the State. We also support the thesis on what needs to be done.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m0.u166	Thank you. There are two minutes, please sit down. Schemchuk. You're repeating what you started. You don't have to.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m0.u167	Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues! At a meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Committee on Law Enforcement, on September 14, 2011, a draft Law amending some Ukrainian legislation on combating human trafficking was submitted by the Ukrainian National Deputies and others. As the rapporteur pointed out, the purpose of the bill is to establish a person’s life, honor, dignity, health, integrity, and security as the highest social value in terms of countering human trafficking. To this end, the bill proposes to establish licensing of activities related to the congregation and distribution, including, on the global Internet network, information on individuals for the purpose of their knowledge, the establishment of administrative and legal responsibility for carrying out activities related to the assembly and the dissemination of information on individuals for the purpose of getting to know them without obtaining a licence. [[or]] During the discussion of the bill, members of the committee supported the author’s ideas. At the same time, a number of critical remarks were made. In particular, it was pointed out that the title of the bill was inconsistent with its contents, as well as the criticism of the position proposed to amend article 164 with the 15th Code of Administrative Offences. In view of what has been said, the Committee is of the view that it is appropriate to agree with the conclusion of the Ukrainian Chief Scientific and Expert Office and to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the outcome of the first reading of the draft Ukrainian Law amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts against trafficking in human beings to be adopted on the basis of the following observations and proposals. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m0.u168	Thank you. Shall we discuss it? I am voting on the proposal for adoption as a basis for the first reading of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts, registration number 8702. [[on the fight against trafficking in human beings]] Please vote. [[13:43:11]] For 246 The bill was adopted in the first reading. We are considering a draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the tax on political advertising. [[Registration number 5248]] There's a proposal for a reduced procedure. Please be supportive. [[13:43:43]] For-198 Offer supported. Here's our reporter, Jojik. Hare, please, Ivan Alexanderovich, prepare Condratuk Oleni.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m0.u169	Dear National Deputies! My national MPs, Yuri Kostenko and Jaroslav Jodzik, the legislative initiative is born with real reality, objective circumstances. We propose to regulate the use of political advertising, to regulate the basic law, the Advertising Act. Today, the legal regulation of the use of political advertising really covers only a period of electoral campaign, and what is done between elections? They do what those who have the money and those who have the authority want. You can find thousands of examples of manipulation by social consciousness and by rocking the foundations of national security, using political advertising outside the electoral period. Some promise to improve people’s lives today, if not yesterday, others slander their people, their history, state symbols, and praise foreigners. One such example may be the advertisement that is celebrated by the emperor of the Russian state of Nicholas II, whom the people call a bloody emperor, "Michael Bloody." You can see it on all the roads, from such positions that the Ukrainian people still have to justify to him that we have our own state or we have our own politics. And how the mockery of all these skirmishes stands next to the boards of Victor Yanukovich, where it says, "Love Ukraine!".. What is it like not to rock the foundations of national security? So our proposal is to eventually regulate the use of political advertising between election periods. The second motive that we used is that there's actually a crisis, and if there's huge money in the crisis, and this ad is going to be the whole information space of Ukraine, let people pay for this political advertising, and eventually it's going to be the right thing to do. But the truth is there's one moment when we were passing this bill, and we were filing it two years ago, and then there was another legislation, so at this point we already have a tax code and I.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m0.u170	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m0.u171	And I would ask you, given this initiative, to vote for this bill. We will change it in the second reading and accept it. We cannot get away with political advertising like we do in Ukraine today. You have to set up a system, you have to love your country, you have to love your people, you have to finally force those who have money to pay for the state budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m0.u172	The committee is Elena Konstantinovna Kondratjuk. None. If desired, sign up for the performance. Please, Bully.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m0.u173	I'm sorry, I wanted to press "against," but I pressed "against." But it's about what. In fact, I think there's a mix-up in this bill, and there's no way you can vote for this project. First of all, it's an increase, once again, in the mass media. And we need to understand that we have actually done a lot of things that the media are doing today, because of our activities. And this bill can't be supported because this is a failure in the legal and substantive relationship of the very definition of what political advertising is. And any information about the activities of public authorities today can be viewed as political advertising and officials of course. And what's more, there are enough bills today that define such a concept as political advertising: this is the Law on Elections of Ukrainian People's Deputies and the Law on Elections of Local Heads and Local Councils. So our parliamentary group will in no way support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m0.u174	Thank you. Question completed. I'm voting on the proposal for. The Committee's conclusion, I'm telling you, reject. You can't. Decline, send for further work on the findings of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. I am voting on the adoption of the draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the tax on political advertising. Registration number 5248. Please vote. [[13:49:20]] For 1 The law is not adopted. The issue is being addressed, the draft Act amending article 1 of the Ukrainian Television and Radio Act. [[on the definition of "national audiovisual product"]] Registration number 8142. There's a proposal for a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[13:49:56]] For 211 Thank you. Dear colleagues, there is a letter from the author of the bill, Oksana Bilozer, asking to withdraw the bill from consideration. I ask you to support this proposal: to withdraw the bill at the request of the author. [[No. 8142]] Please vote. [[13:50:32]] For the 250. Thank you, the offer is supported. The bill, proposed by the author, has been withdrawn. The question is being addressed: a draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the limitation of the maximum amount of pension and the abolition of unjustified benefits and benefits when retiring for persons authorized to perform the functions of the State, as well as an increase in the minimum amount of retirement age. Registration number 8101. There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[13:51:16]] For 208 Offer supported. Reports Vetwicki Dmitry Aleksandrovich, national deputy. You don't? Then, please, no from the committee. If you want to talk, please sign up. Yes, please, Cibenka. Behind him is Polančich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m0.u175	Thank you. Communist faction, Peter Cibenko. Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine, this bill continues the line to limit the maximum amount of pensions. But in this part, this part of the bill is, in fact, already implemented by a previous decision, a previous law that initiated the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on pension legislation reform. These restrictions are introduced, and in this part of the bill is completely out of date. But at least in the title of this bill, there's a part about the size of the minimum retirement age. So I thought that the first deputy head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons would be waiting for a turn until the savings due to the limitation of the maximum size of special pensions would be directed to a substantial, I would stress, substantial increase in the size of the minimum pension by age. Because the author wrote that down in his bill. And even in some articles of the amendment to the Law on Compulsory State Aging, he seems to have marked such an effort to increase the minimum pension size, but, well, he really isn't there. So on behalf of the faction, what I would like to say is that the faction of the Company of Ukraine is willing to support at least the very goal of increasing the minimum pension by age, given that it has managed to reduce to some extent the costs of the Pension Fund by limiting special pensions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m0.u176	Please, Mikola Poljanczich. Mikhailo Poljancic.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m0.u177	Please pass the word to Lashko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m0.u178	Thank you. Thank you, Sir Michael. Respectable citizens of Ukraine, respected fellow citizens, from October 1st in Ukraine became effective the law on a new pension reform, which is not really a pension reform, but a pension genocide of millions of Ukrainian pensioners. When the authorities extended this pension genocide, she said that he would allow, a new law, to raise pensions for the least protected categories of citizens, that he would allow for the restoration of social justice in part of the pension provision of different categories of citizens. Has this law achieved the goal declared by the authorities? No, no, not again. In Ukraine, as there were millions of Ukrainian pensioners who spent their lives digging, who were in the field, who were in the mine, who were in the factory, and who received the coins, and who continued to receive them. And there's a caste of untouchable retirees in Ukraine who have spent their entire lives sitting in quiet, comfy offices, never more difficult to handle than paper and paper and bribes, and today they're getting tens of thousands of dollars of pension. That's social justice. Every national MP, every employee who retires, gets material aid in the amount of an annual salary, that's 200,000 dollars of relief money. Why don't you show me a simple, normal Ukrainian person who gets this kind of material help? Each official has at least 80 per cent of the pension salary when a simple working person is at most 40 per cent of the salary has a pension. Anyone who comes out can retire in two years, and the common people are not allowed to. No account is taken of being on a specific vacation, an internship insurance service for women, and the mass of other injustices that the law has left! That's why we need to support this bill! Get rid of the mudslides immediately, and lift people up as simple as possible! — Matthew 24: 45 - 47.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m0.u179	Thank you. It's the right thing to say. There's only one sentence missing: "I, National Deputy Lazko, will give up my pension insurance in the future." Period. That would be absolutely right. Question completed. Question completed. I am voting on the proposal to adopt as a basis in the first reading of the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine to limit the maximum amount of pensions and to abolish unjustified benefits and benefits when retiring for persons authorized to perform functions of the State, as well as to increase the minimum amount of pensions at an age. Registration number 8101. Vote. [[13:57:20]] For-30 The bill is not supported. The factions, please. Region Party 3, BUT and Our Ukraine: Zeros, Communists 25, Reforms and the People's Party did not vote, non-fractional 2. The draft Law on Employers’ Organizations, Their Unification, Their Rights and Guarantees of Their Activities is being considered, and there is a proposal for a reduced procedure. [[Registration number 8186]] Please be supportive. [[13:58:13]] For 216 I'm continuing the session for 15 minutes. Please be the deputy head of the Committee on Social Policy and Work, Jaroslav Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m0.u180	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! Your opinion is proposed by the draft Law on the Organization of Employers and Their Unity, the Rights and Guarantees of Their Activities, which was written in conjunction with my colleague Oleg Shevchuk. You all know, that's the law, it's been applied for seven years, so the practice of applying it can be considered a success. Hundreds of local and sectoral employers’ organizations, dozens of their associations, including 21 countries’ organizations, have been established and registered according to its regulations. It doesn't take much to talk about what it is that is based on the search for compromise, on the consent of employers, hired workers from the trade unions and the state, and we are now building our relationships and the growth of socio-economic employment relations. Thus, the practice of applying the law has revealed a number of shortcomings. In particular, vague definition and contradictory interpretation of terms such as "employer", "employee organization", "unification, employers' organization". The procedure for the state registration of employers’ organizations, their unification, remains uncertain. There are no representative criteria in the current law, which are the most difficult today to create such employers ’ organizations and their associations in order to successfully and representatively conduct social dialogue, protecting the interests and employers as well. Because there can be no movement in one direction, absolutely not taking into account the interests of the investment and the organization of production in one industrial enterprise or another. And one of the reasons for the amendments to the Law on the Organization of Employers in Ukraine is the inadequacy of the individual provisions of the International Labour Organization Convention 87 on Freedom of Association and Protection of Rights to the Organization in 1948. I would like to remind you that this convention was ratified by the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic in 1956. In a new edition of the bill, there have been changes in the guarantee of the organization’s activities and its unification. One of the fundamentals of money is the introduction of the concept of "The All-Ukrainian Branch Organization."
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m0.u181	Please continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m0.u182	as an organization that, at the time of the state registration of employers’ associations, has at least 30 percent of employees in the sector. Substantial changes have been made in the process of establishing state registrations for employers’ organisations, their associations, and in particular the improvement of the procedure, the clear regulation of the procedural rights of public registration authorities and individual employers’ organizations, and their integrations. There is an expansion of the rights of employers’ organizations and integrations through the possibility of integration into joint representative bodies of employers’ organizations and their integration. The Committee on Social Policy and Labour, the authors propose to adopt this bill as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m0.u183	He's from the committee and the authors. Do you want to talk about it? Jaroslav Mikhailovich has made such a report that it is clear what must be done with this law. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Law on the Organization of Employers, Their Association, Their Rights and Their Guarantees. [[Registration number 8186]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[14:02:10]] For-13. The bill was rejected. We have a question: the draft Act amending article 4 of the Ukrainian Law on the Judicial Assembly. [[on the rates of the congregation from the application for compensation of moral damage]] [[Registration number 9079]] There's a proposal for a reduced procedure. I'd like to make up my mind. [[14:02:45]] For-198 A supported idea. National MP Tomenko. There are no more authors. Please, from the Committee of Pinchuk Andri Pavlovich, head of the Committee on Finance, Banking, Tax and Customs Policy.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m0.u184	Mr. Chairman, honourable national MPs, let me remind you that on November 1st of this year, the Ukrainian Law on the Judicial Assembly will become effective, which stipulates that for filing a court application for damages of moral damage, the judicial assembly will handle one percent of the price of the lawsuit, but not less than 0.2 percent of the minimum wage and no more than three percent of the minimum wage. The provisions of the draft Law amending article 4 of the Ukrainian Law on the Judicial Assembly provide for an increase in the rates of the court to apply for damages for damages of moral damages, depending on the price of the suit, and in particular: from the application for damages of moral damages at the price of a lawsuit up to 50 per cent of the minimum wage of 1 per cent of the fee, but not less than 0.2 per cent of the minimum wage, from the application for damages of moral damages at the price of a lawsuit of 50 per cent to 100 per cent of the minimum wage of 5 per cent of the price of the claim, from the application for damages for damages of moral damages at the price of more than 100 per cent of the minimum wage of the claim. This proposal is made by the author of a bill aimed at setting up safety nets for the intervention of the media and journalists against unwarranted claims made in connection with their professional activities. This bill is supported by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Taking into account the above-mentioned committee at its meeting on September 21, 2011, as a result of its consideration of the bill under registration number 9079, he decided to recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine accept it as a basis. Ladies and gentlemen, please support the committee's decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m0.u185	Thank you. Do you want to talk about it? Yeah, except for Kick-Ass, no one? Please give me a microphone, asshole.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m0.u186	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. MPs for Reforms for the Future, Zdirko, Mikolayevščina. The MP's Reform for the Future supports the preservation of valid safeguards for the protection of media and journalists against unjustified calls for action in connection with their professional activities. Ukraine's approved Law on the Judicial Assembly establishes that for claims for damages of moral damage, the size of the congregation is 1 per cent of the price of the lawsuit, but not more than 0.2 per cent of the minimum wage and not more than 3 per cent of the minimum wage. That is, in filing a suit for damages of moral damage regardless of the cost of the suit, the maximum congregation in 2011 will be 2 000 823 bracelets. The possibility of filing millions of media lawsuits has a very negative effect. The absence of a judicial assembly proportionate to the extent of the damage that the injured party wants to bring will open up opportunities for pressure on the media and individual journalists, and may reverse the practice of forced closure of the media after disproportionate fines have been applied. That is why we believe that this bill should be voted on in order to preserve the basis of democracy such as the media. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-10-18-m0.u187	Thank you. Question completed. I'm voting on the proposal of a profile committee to adopt a draft law amending article 4 of the Ukrainian Law on Judicial Assembly. [[on the rates of the congregation from the application for compensation of moral damage]] [[Registration number 9079]] I'd like to make a statement. [[2:06:44]] For-19 Unfortunately, the bill. The factions, please. Region Party 1, Reforms for the Future, 17 and non-fractional, 1. The rest didn't vote. Yes, dear colleagues, we considered what we were going to consider at the morning session. I'm reminding you that we've included some of the bills in the agenda, and there's a request for profile committees. Some of you have already prepared these bills so that at the evening session we will consider these bills. Therefore, I declare the morning meeting of the Supreme Council closed. The beginning of the evening is at 4:00 p.m.
