ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u1	Good morning! Dear national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:01:16]] Three hundred and thirty - eight national deputies registered in the session hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear National Deputies! Today is the birthday of our colleague John Mikolaiovich Mirnowy. Please welcome our colleague and wish him success. [[Applause]] Dear National Deputies! I give you information on the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in plenary meetings on July 5, 2011. 63 questions of the agenda were considered. As a result of their consideration, 12 laws and 6 regulations were passed, 13 bills were passed on the basis, 1 bill was sent to the Committee to prepare for re-reading, 2 bills were converted to the subjects of the law of the legislative initiative, 2 bills were returned to the Committee for further processing, 21 bills and 1 draft decree were rejected. Dear National Deputies! In accordance with article 25 of the Rules, 30 minutes are allocated on Wednesday for the performances of the national deputies. People's deputies please sign up for the speech. Please put the names of the national deputies on the information board. People's MP Litvinov, faction of the Party of the Regions. People's representative of Litvinov, please. People's Deputy Kirichk, faction of the Party of the Regions. () [[B in m in s a l in]] National MP. Don't scream! People's deputy Kirichk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u2	Well, there's Litwinov. Let Litvinov go. Well, please. Dear colleagues, calm down! The Lithuanian National Deputy hands over the right to speak to a faction colleague. Calm down! Please calm down.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u3	Respectable citizens of Ukraine! Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, colleagues! I would like to ask today from this rostrum: as long as I am a member of parliament, under mandates, mutilating and beating people. I was approached by activists of the "Timishenko-To-Response" public movement. The case is that on Monday, 4 June, in the Pecher Court Hall, a public activist, Timoshenko, was held accountable by the people's deputies Shkil and Arutuns in front of the press, in front of the foreign observers in the audience, in the eyes of Timoshenko, who probably wanted to please his leader, by force, with exceptional cynicism, had thrown the young girl out of the courtroom. Today this girl is hospitalized. () [[B in m in s a l in]] Svetlana Mishalov is now hospitalized with a diagnosis of rib injury and kidney damage. Despite the fact that a statement had been made to the police, there was no active action. From this half of the room, there's noise, they're trying to talk, so no one hears what happened. You don't have a lot of Lozinski? How long will it take to mutilate people in the framework of parliamentary mandates? I ask that I consider my request to the Minister of the Interior, the Attorney-General, to conduct a thorough, prompt investigation and to bring to justice those who allow themselves to be mutilated by a mandate. I think there will be more than 226 votes here to remove their inviolability and bring them to justice.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u4	May I have your attention, please? Kirichk's national deputy is in place, right? Please. So who's going to do the show? He's handing over the rights of Alexia Plotnikov, faction of the Party of the Regions. Karmazin will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u5	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! The faction of the Party of Regions would like to draw attention to the current socio-economic development of Ukraine in mid-2011. Despite the unkind accusations of our political opponents, the socio-economic situation in the country is developing steadily. In terms of macroeconomics, the gross domestic product for the first quarter of 2011 increased by 5.2 percent compared to the corresponding period of the previous year. There's been an increase in industrial production, in agriculture, in other sectors of the national economy. Real income of the consolidated budget for the first quarter of this year increased by 10 per cent compared to the corresponding period in 2010 and by 11. The country has created a financial reserve to eliminate the unbiased state of affairs in the national economy. The treasury accounts have a currency of $2 billion, a bracelet of $35 billion. As early as June 14, the Supreme Council of Ukraine approved a government bill to increase the spending of the State budget by 11 billion dollars, which will increase payments to budgeters and build social facilities. The government has fulfilled its promise to allocate additional income to the welfare of citizens. With changes to the Budget Act, budget salaries will increase by 13 percent once. As a result, teachers will be able to get an average of 340 dollars more, medical personnel 300 dollars more. In addition, it was decided to expand the list of teaching workers who receive 20 percent of their salary allowances and decide to set up social protection facilities for their employees. A certain withdrawal from the tranche schedule does not call into question our effective cooperation with the International Monetary Fund and other international institutions. Cooperation with both the IMF and the World Bank and other international structures is a sure guarantee not only of Ukraine's integration into world economic space, but also of Ukraine's accession to foreign investors. I want to remind you that the net increase in foreign capital in the first quarter is 8.4 times higher than in the previous year. And finally, there is another important factor in Ukraine's integration into world economic relations. We have every opportunity this year to sign an agreement on a free trade zone with the European Union, and this is directly due to the economic bloc of the Cabinet of Ministers. But this, among other things, shows the stability of the national economy. Thus, the country is developing, and there is good reason to believe that it will continue to develop, despite the individual unkind claims of those who would like it to be different, that is to say that the country does not develop. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u6	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Yuri Prokopchuk, fraction of BUTT, please. Glazonov will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u7	Respectable compatriots! Today, the Cave Court of Kiev is facing another political farce on the criminal case against Julia Timoshenko. Yell, yell, yell when ye stand for Yanukovich. What crimes does the current authorities try to accuse Julia Timoshenko of -- that her government has provided low-access rural areas with ambulances and equipment that saved thousands of Ukrainian lives -- could it be that in a year when the economies of the leading countries of the world were running, pensioners were on time to receive pensions? Criminal law does not apply to morals, ideology, religion, and politics, but that is what the authorities today are leading with Yanukovic in relation to Julia Timoshenko. The fact that, despite the halting of gas supplies to Ukraine in the extremely cold winter, the citizens received heat and the price did not go up today is considered a crime. The question is, who actually committed the crime — Julia Timoshenko or those who fake the criminal case against her today — those who can't hold the price and give up the Ukrainian land are still going to other countries. The Ukrainian society and the world society have long understood that what is happening in these days in the Pecher Court has nothing to do with the rule of law, nothing to do with any fundamental respect for human rights. By the hands of the court, the authorities are trying to destroy Julia Timoshenko as a political competitor, as a statesman, as a leader who can unite Ukrainians against the establishment of a totalitarian regime in Ukraine. The most eloquent confirmation of this is the execution of the courts only over Julius Timoshenko. The judge grossly violates the Criminal Procedure Code, doesn't give enough time to get to know, the new defense attorney spends one time to get to know the fifteen volumes of the case. And the last cynical incident, when on June 29, nearly 30 young people, so - called activists, were introduced under the protection of the police, brought by a police bus and into a state-of-the-art facility at an irregular time. Obviously these are the instructions of those who want to destroy both opposition today and Julia Timoshenko will not succeed. So we demand that we immediately, without delay, listen to the IMF minister in this room and explain why provocations are being carried out, why are people pushing the buses of OMON, why are they fighting, why are criminal cases being violated, and why are provokers going free? No, political repression!
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u8	The national deputy Glasunov is transferring the right to speak to Leonid Kojari. The next will be Eugene Kzarykov, a faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u9	Good morning, distinguished national MPs! I'd like to make one point first, my colleague said that yesterday the woman had a rib injury, so she had a broken rib, which resulted in the kidney being killed by this man. We have just heard the burning thing, in which all the facts are distorted, unfortunately. But these are the people who are protecting Julia Volodymyrovna so badly today, who were involved in the beating of Ukrainian citizens yesterday. But I would like to bring the meeting back a little bit more constructively and give information about the international life of Ukraine. And I would like to point out that the key events of the past month should include the participation of the President of Ukraine in the session of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, where Viktor Fedorovich acted as President of the State, who today presides over the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe. The visit was an excellent opportunity for PARE deputies to communicate with the head of state with a number of issues, from Kiev's headship priorities to judicial and anti-corruption reform. PARJE’S deputies and leaders were convinced of the seriousness of Ukraine’s intentions to make a significant contribution to the work of the Council of Europe during the term of headship. Rumors of Europe’s growing interest in the problems of national opposition have been somewhat exaggerated, as usual. Among the important events in the European direction, I will celebrate the official visit of Viktor Yanuković to Slovakia on June 17th, a visit to Ukraine by the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Poland, Radoslav Sikorsky on June 23, and the first official visit by President Dimitris Christofias to Ukraine on July 3-4. Their key result is Ukraine's support from three EU countries on visa-free trade, association and free trade zones. This support is very important given that Poland has already begun its six-year chairmanship of the EU Council, and Cyprus will head there in the second half of 2012. A major external political success has been the state visit to Ukraine by the head of the People’s Republic of China, Hu Djin Tao, China’s strategic partnership and the signing of the joint declaration have been a historic breakthrough in relations with this world power. Today, China is Ukraine’s main partner in Asia, and the task is to bring the country’s trade to ten billion dollars a year. Large-scale investment projects are under way, including the construction of a high-speed railway between Borispil Airport and Kiev. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u10	Eugene Kzarykov. Dear colleagues! I failed to say that Eugene Kzarykov is a member of the Communist faction. I'm sorry, Gregory Smythech will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u11	Ladies and gentlemen of the people! Respectable voters! As you know in Kiev, members of nationalist organizations have been detained in connection with an investigation into the preparation of eggs in the Eternal Fire in Slava Park. They were freedom activists Kirill Babinec and an activist of the so-called "black committee" Bogdan Ticki. They were apprehended in the first number, as was known earlier by a number of people's deputies, a faction of Communists in Kiev was arrested by the leader of the artistic association of the Brotherhood of Saint Luke, an activist of the Ukrainian nationalist wing, who in principle has no right to be free today, and our faction made an appropriate request because in the canon of the great Day of Victory, she and the nationalist organization declared that the eternal fire was such a devilish Cadillac. In order to fully understand why such acts of vandalism are taking place and why the people of the right of the room are writing applications for the protection of these vandals, it is necessary to understand that they are children of independence, i.e. children who live in that country for 20 years, in large measure, and to take the example with no one. One president, with his thief's company, sold the country, sold all the businesses by privatizing, demolished the company, and left only one invention: "Crawler". The second, drinking vodka, playing guitar, by his decree, he tore up the land, destroyed agriculture, and gave birth to unemployment, and left behind another invention of "twilight". The third, I think, committed the most serious crime of the adoption stake in the spirituality of our nation, which was divided by the final Ukraine along the Dnieper coast and unconscionablely took to its own trap, as journalists know, six hectares in Bezradić for farming and for the separation of bees, by the way, the faction counted on six hectares can be placed all bees of Ukraine, Belarus and Russia together. Eighteen Governments have changed during this period. Today, half of the Cabinet of Ministers of the past is sitting on the bench of the defendants — with whom to set an example for these people? Of course. vandals are an unconscionable generation. But it's your fault, and it's orange, and so-called national Democrats, that they're growing up in this country. It's your fault that the Prime Minister is called a thief, and there are thieves. Your "deservation" in coffee pots, and that the media are forgetting to condemn today actions aimed at breaking the country apart. The Communist faction would not allow further acts of vandalism. You know, there was a position to protect this sacred monument. And I wanted to talk to the press. You know, there are professional journalists, and there is a so-called generation that has been hailed by one and colleagues, decent boys who work for money and obey orders from their employees. I call upon you to condemn the mass acts of those who abuse and abuse our memory.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u12	Gregory Smythuch, faction of the Party of the Regions. Soltus will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u13	Dear National Deputies! Gregory Smythuch, Party of Regions. Volin. I took the floor on one point. A number of laws, including Law 8725, were considered on the Supreme Council yesterday. What does this law speak of? He says this law about a whole range of enterprises, including the Titanic branch, which is under a special state control, namely, the status of a criminal enterprise. Let's go. Please don't bother. ..put it under privatization. I'm here to make sure that we have a good host in Ukraine at any company. I want something to develop in Ukraine. But I've always stood up to the fact that businesses that have 100 percent profitability are being sold. And I'm against what enterprises that have strategic significance for our state, including for the defence industry. That's what I'm talking about. Articles 13 and 14 of the Constitution speak of the following: the land, the Nadra, is exclusively in the rights of the Ukrainian people and is protected by the Constitution, and is protected by the Constitution. And it cannot be passed on that which cannot be returned in an improved way, but rather to rent what can be passed on, return to an improved or unenhanced condition. Nadra never comes back if they're renting, in some way. They're coming back in one state of destruction. If you go up to 200 to 300 meters and you go over Volnogodski and Irshan Gok, you'll see the horror there. And I don't understand why the chairman, Vladimir Mikhailovich Litwin, addressed you yesterday, gave me no opportunity to say my word on this matter. I don't understand why such questions are strategically considered by a reduced procedure, and they extend to someone. I don't understand why, I raised the question and I raise it that in 2004-2008, under the auspices of Kinaha, Gurieva, the Tooth Valentina combo robbed and stole more than $300 million, and no one was responsible for it. I don't understand that the company works with 100 percent profitability, and they're in bankruptcy today. I do not understand why the chairman allows such national wealth to be embalmed. I stood on the watch for this matter. And I'm not against private property, I'm against that approach to government property. And I ask, Vladimir Mikhailovich, for the future, to be able to make a point: by a reduced procedure, to deal with the issue, or by a brief procedure. Because those people who have a mind and a heart and think about their homeland, they will not let themselves be silenced here, independently.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u14	Thank you. I'm the only thing I'd ask, my dear colleague, not to use the word "stretch" or anything like that. And I ask you not to engage in interfractional divisions inside the faction of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And I'm acting according to the Rules. The National MP Soltus is transferring the right to speak to Gregory Kaletnik. Catherine Vaschuk will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u15	Dear Volodymira Mikhailovich, distinguished fellow national MPs, respected citizens of Ukraine! I wanted to devote these three minutes to a very dry problem, which is the state of agricultural production at the moment and the gathering of bread in Ukraine. Forecasts for wheat crops and the world's early grain group have not yet reduced against the actual gathering last 2010-2011 marketing year. Similar forecasts are positive in Ukraine. The results of the first testicles speak for themselves. In southern areas and Crimean autonomy, they make up 4 centimetres of hectares more than they did last year. And according to previous figures, this year's loaf of bread may be at least 45 million tons, 6 million tons more than last year. But the situation changes every day, due to weather conditions that are both good and in some ways not very good. Yes, in the last 10 to 12 days in Kirovograd, Cerkaske, Odessa and Kyiv, in the north of the Mikolai region fell from one and a half months of rainfall. The change in weather conditions coincided with the pouring and reaching of grains of bread. Heavy rains, high relative air humidity, overheating of the soil led to part of the crops. It is estimated that between 10 and 30 percent of our bread has come from the most intense rains. Plant distortions and consumption, consumption demand, esteemed colleagues, we have 6.4 million grains for food, 5.2 million tons of wheat, 2.7 seeds, and 14.7 million on livestock feed. As if in the background of the foretold congregation, there is no cause for concern. But there are circumstances that I would like to focus on, especially those that are responsible for the food supply and the formation of wheat for the seeds, they are specialists in areas, districts and ministries. Soil resuscitation, air collided with the most responsible stage of maturation, and it is likely that the glue may be washed off, as well as conditions for the development of phusarisms, septorios, and morbid dew. Therefore, the necessary amount of food wheat needs to be taken into special control and controlled each ton of it. I want to thank my colleagues at the Vitali Juryovich Homutinnik Committee and the Economics Unit of the Ministry and Kabmin for taking off the many-suffering rural laborers with their export duties. I want to thank you today.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u16	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u17	Today, I want to thank the many suffering our rural workers and wish them good success and good health. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u18	Thank you. Catherine Vaschuk, faction of the People's Party. The next one will be Turkey.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u19	Catherine Vaschuk, faction of the People's Party. Dear colleagues, respected radio listeners, today is not a secret that the agrarian’s most painful subject is the development of livestock, namely the dairy sector, and the meat farming of the cattle. During this year, the issue became even more acute and worsened after the faction’s proposal was not supported, my own, when the Tax Code was adopted, to leave the system of taxes on added value as it was when dairy, meat, or processing enterprises counted them for peasants, gave them a subsidy to the price, thereby supporting agricultural producers themselves. Hall did not support this proposal because it was the way the Cabinet of Ministers and the Ministry of Agrarian Politics insisted. What has been the result for today? As a result, we have a picture where no Kabminu decision that has been taken on the distribution of those funds that are being accumulated on a special account is being implemented today. At first, Kabmin promised that these funds would be paid to a cow farmer for 30 copies, to a factory for 30 copies, to a pound [35 kg] of milk supplied to an enterprise, and to a meat for one and a half bracelets. Then it's going to be for a cow about 800 bucks. Nothing is being done today. And in recent days, the Ministry has decided that peasants will receive nothing for their milk and meat. And the cost they raised would be divided into building complexes and so not by the poor investors who came to the village. What is it today? As a result of this amendment, instead of having the last one, farmers today would receive 870 million milk subsidies. Only 222 million were raised. This is what we have when non-professionals decide on the development of the agricultural sector. As a result, the head is reduced.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u20	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u21	I'm done. Agrarian prices have increased, and exports are declining. Dear colleagues, I registered the appropriate law to return to the old order. On behalf of the villagers, I ask you for your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u22	The National MP Zurko is transferring the right to speak to Mironenko College, a faction of the Party of the Regions. Next is Samuel instead of Danielenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u23	Dear colleagues! Dear Chairman! Our country is gradually emerging from a severe financial and economic crisis and the main economic indicators for the current year are positive. Given the increase in the production of goods, it is logical to increase the performance of the transport sector. According to the State Department, 331 million tons of cargo were transported in January-May 2011 by enterprises. That's 11 percent more than January/May 2010. The traffic increased by 9 percent, accounting for 176 billion tons/kilometres. Passenger transport services in January/May 2011 benefited almost 3 billion passengers, 3 percent more than January/May 2011. The results of the industry's work compared to January/May 2010 are presented by the following indicators. Maritime trade ports have increased their cargo processing by 5 percent, transit ports by 25 percent. More than one and a half billion passengers were transported by car. The volume of shipments increased by 22 percent. One hundred and five million passengers were transported by rail, and loads increased by nine percent. National airlines have increased their passenger transport by 25 percent, representing more than 2 million passengers. There has been an increase in the volume of transport in both internal and international directions. This is a major contribution to the economic development of the state. More than 9 billion dollars were paid to the state budget by enterprises in 2010 and more than 4 billion dollars in January/June 2011. These indicators continue to be dynamic in 2010, in which, compared to the previous year, the volume of freight transport by transport enterprises increased by 11 per cent, and in which a number of measures have been taken to develop the road complex, improve their performance, and implement a number of investment projects. As part of the final part of the 2012 European Football Championship in Ukraine, a number of infrastructure projects are being implemented, including the construction and reconstruction of airports and railway stations in Donetsk, Kharkiv, Lviv, and Kiev. Public authorities and administrations are implementing priorities for reforms.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u24	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u25	According to Ukraine’s transport strategy by 2020. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u26	Thank you. Catherine Samuel, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u27	The faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine expresses its protest and indignation with an act of vandalism against the monument to Stalingrad’s heroes in one of the central areas of the city of Herson, the Square of Heroes of Stalingrad. A memorial was taken to build an Oscar supermarket, and this could only happen with permission from the city's head, Herson Saldo. Many Hersonians fought to protect their homeland, and hundreds of them protected Stalingrad. What kind of conscience does it take for the inhumans to be, a week after laying flowers on obelisks, after lighting candles of memory on the occasion of the tragic events of the 70 - year - old period since the start of the Great World War, to endure the memorial sign for the dead of our countrymen? I remind you that 27 million compatriots gave their lives in battle, underground, burned in crematoriums, 75 percent of them from 19 to 50 years of age. Today’s master, without conscience and honor, decided to break the barbaric sign that hindered the construction of the store. The Hersonian Communists, almost all without exception of the media, conducted their own investigations and found that there were no permits for dismantling the monument. The monument itself, made of marble, was taken to the outskirts of the city, dumped in the area of the factory that makes the tombstones. In accordance with article 5 of the Ukrainian Law on Access to Public Information, I request, within five days, the Attorney General's Office, the Bureau of Internal Affairs of Ukraine to give full and motivated answers to the following questions: who granted permission to destroy the historical monument, why the shop is built in the historic part of the city, which was given the size of the land permit, and whether there is agreement on the project. And finally, I am with great respect and understanding, and this is very close to us, in relation to the position of the President of Ukraine and the great faction, the faction of the Party of Regions, in relation to the most tragic pages in the history of our lives, the Great Homeland War, but from this rostrum I am addressing you. Do you need a measure that destroys the city and plunges into the most sacred of all human memory? Might it be better to delegate it to the U.S. Freedom Union? I think he'll be comfortable there, he'll be in his environment.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u28	Ladies and gentlemen, the factions are over. One of the performances mentioned the name, according to the MP, in a negative way. Valentin Zubov, a minute to repeat, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u29	Dear colleagues! In his speech, Mr. Smithus called me, Kinaha and Gureev, the people's deputies, as the people who destroyed the Zaporozhye Titanogne combination. I want to inform you and all of our radio audiences, voters, that I, a politician, a philosopher, a doctor of science, have nothing to do with this, but I did do this, at the request of our colleague Jaroslav Suhog of Zaporozhye. Because at the time, when I was in position, I could provide real help to preserve a factory that many oligarchs had put their eyes on. Thanks to our joint efforts — Gureeva, Kinaha and mine — we were able to keep this plant, which was then profitable. Yeah, he's lying down today. Yeah, they made it a waste today. But he was made like Smith and everyone else. That's why I thank both China and Gureev for standing by the factory together. I want all our constituents to know what's out there.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u30	Please, don't be ridiculous! If you named the last name, the lines were replaced, that's all. This cannot go on indefinitely. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, distinguished national MPs, two factions, according to the point. Please, calm down. In accordance with the Supreme Council’s Rules, Ukraine requires a recess to hold consultations on issues of order and to make a statement. At the same time, they agreed to make a statement. The statement will be made by Pavlovsky’s national deputy. Please make a statement. Well, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u31	Andrew Pavlovsky. A statement from the Fatherland faction. Honorable compatriots, on July 7, the authorities plan to extend the law on the deterioration of Ukrainian pensions. The retirement age for women will be increased by five years, to 62 years for men, civil servants and scientists. Look at the coincidence of 62 years, which is the average life expectancy of men in Ukraine. For 10 years the length of the insurance system will increase, which means that hundreds of thousands of people of pre - retirement age who have already earned their pension will have to work for another ten years. To the cemetery before retirement is the essence of the pension reform of Yanukovic. The opposition, in particular the Fatherland Party, offered an alternative project without an increase in age and employment. The pension genocide will be abolished immediately after the change of this antinational authority, said Julia Timoshenko. For this principled position, Timoshenko wants to quit. Not by chance July 7th, the day of the vote for the so - called pension reform, coincides with the caveyard over Julia Timoshenko. She is being judged for having paid her pensions in full and in time during the crisis, for restoring her gas supply, for giving people heat, and for not allowing the country to freeze. The shock therapy of Yanukovich is directly linked to political persecution. Dear citizens, it's time to protect yourself, the well-being of your families. The protest will begin on Thursday, July 7th at 9 a.m. in Krestatika, 42 at the Pecher Court. And I would like to draw your attention when similar pension reforms were in France, four million people went out. In Prague, for the first time in Czech history, the subway was stopped — so the transporters voted against the deterioration of pensions in the Czech Republic. Now hundreds of thousands of people have come out to protect their social rights in England. I want to talk to you: get off your knees, stop sleeping! Where are our unions? We need to protect our interests. So on Thursday, July 7 On the 9th morning at the Pecher Court, we begin protests against the pension genocide. Let's say no to pension genocide, no to reprisals.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u32	Yes, with regard to the proposals and requirements that have been made in the speeches of the national MPs, I ask the secretariat to prepare appropriate assignments and referrals, including forming them, as individual national MPs insisted on doing so, as members of the panel have been asked to do. A draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Kingdom of Norway on the readmission of persons is under consideration. Dear colleagues, I'd like to ask you to consider this with a reduced procedure. [[10:43:17]] For 209 Decision taken. The rapporteur is the first Deputy Minister for Foreign Affairs of Ukraine, Ruslan Demchenko. The Coroner is the first deputy head of the Committee in the foreign affairs of Taras Cnerovil.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u33	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! The draft Ukrainian Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Kingdom of Norway is being submitted to your consideration. [[on the readmission of persons]] The agreement states that the main relationships are quick, effective identification and safe and organizational returns of persons who do not meet the conditions for entry and residence in Ukraine or Norway, as well as transit procedures for the transport of such persons to their countries of origin. In addition, a two - year extension, reception, transfer of third - country nationals and stateless persons is envisaged. The agreement with Norway is based on the same conditions as the readmission agreement between Ukraine and the European Union. Considering that the Agreement with the European Union is being successfully implemented and today has no problems related to its practical implementation, we are counting on a similar successful implementation of the Ukrainian-Norwegian Agreement. It should be noted that the Norwegian side carried out the internal procedures necessary to enter into force by the bilateral drawdown agreement as early as March 2008. The ratification of the readmission agreement will contribute to the development of relations with Norway in the migration sphere, while creating preconditions for the facilitation of visa regime for Ukrainian citizens, as it also takes effect as it enters into force the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Kingdom of Norway on visa facilitation. In particular, it provides free visa design for 14 categories of Ukrainian citizens. The design of multiple visas and the establishment of simplified and unified procedures for dealing with problems and making decisions on how to make visas for our fellow countrymen. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u34	Thank you. First Deputy Head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Taras Cnerwell, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u35	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues of the Ukrainian National Deputies! Taking into account the special significance and urgency of the matter, the Committee on Foreign Affairs held a special additional emergency session on the subject. Once again, I would like to emphasize the urgency and urgency of the matter. The point is that Norway, although not a member of the European Union, is a country that is involved in the Schengen Treaty on the Free Movement of Persons and, accordingly, our negotiations with the European Union on the visa-free regime for Ukrainian citizens foresee, among other things, the mandatory ratification of the relevant agreements with Norway, in particular on the readmission of persons, since in this case the non-ratification of this agreement, its non-conclusion and its non-conclusion, creates an appropriate hole in our contractual base with the European Union. As far as the agreement is concerned. Its text is completely and completely similar to that of the text that we ratified three years ago in the Agreement with the European Union. There were great fears that readmission would result in very difficult, difficult consequences for Ukraine. As we can see, nothing tragic has actually happened. We're working normally, and there's no carload of migrants coming back, so there's not going to be any return, and we're having these problems with the Kingdom of Norway. In this regard, the Committee requests the Supreme Council to uphold the ratification law now. Unfortunately, three years ago, because of certain political ambitions, we did not vote for him. Today it was his turn to vote and open the way forward – the next step of the road to introduce visa-free travel for Ukrainian citizens. There is no need for additional expenditure from the budget on the implementation of this agreement. Possible funds that may be involved in the event that by some miracle a foreigner is evicted back to Ukraine, who from Ukraine has gone to Norway, are already provided for by appropriate budget programs. The Committee on Foreign Affairs is asking for support.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u36	Dear colleagues, can we make a decision? No warning? There's a warning. Please sign in. Microphone, please turn it on. Gregory Smythuch, Party of Regions. And the next one will be Viacheslav Koval.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u37	Thank you. Gregory Smythuch, Party of Regions. First of all, Vladimir Mikhailovich, I demanded a word, and you didn't give it to me, and I have a right.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u38	Please speak on the subject or I'll turn off the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u39	Please do not comment on the speaker! Don't comment!
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u40	On the subject, please!
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u41	Now, in terms of subject matter. I don't mind Ukraine being integrated into the international community. I don't mind that our citizens should have equal opportunities and rights and so on. I am only against the fact that when Ukraine imposes itself, or Ukraine, when it is forced to do so. Including, you remember when we passed the law, we ratified the European Union with regard to readmission. Of course, there are no consequences of what Taras Cnerwell said in Ukraine today. Today. What's going to happen in the future, none of us ever count. Just as they don't count, including on other issues that we sometimes discuss here under a short-term chairman program. I'm in favour of Ukraine having a parity attitude, a bilateral attitude, a parity attitude. And I'm in favour of the information that's provided in the treaty ratification, so that it's full so that it can be given. The ability to ask questions — and how many, whether or not there are consequences, whether or not there is a need for budget allocation in the future, whether or not there is a need. I think that even if one person is here, returned after the readmission, Ukraine is still losing money, including budget. And you know that in the media, there's statistics, and there's hundreds of them. And I think there will be thousands in Ukraine in the future after the readmission. And it's an extra burden on the budget, it's an extra burden on our infrastructure, and it's an additional commitment that we're making to those countries with which we're signing the agreement. If these agreements are signed on parity terms, if these agreements are mutually binding and mutually beneficial, then I'm in favour of supporting such agreements.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u42	Yes. Viacheslav Koval, faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Ruslan Knazevich, right? Please, Ruslan Knazevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u43	Dear Head, Your Honor, exactly the opposite of the previous speech seems to be the case. This is about the fact that the agreement was signed in February 2008, very soon after we decided here to ratify the readmission agreement with the European Union. Many simply do not understand why Norway is isolated from this order. As yet, Norway is not a member of the European Union. Although it's as integrated as possible. And there's a perfectly right deputy foreign minister who says there's no borders, it's in the Schengen area, and so in the minds of many Ukrainians, it's an integral part of Europe. But it happened that they made a decision in a referendum, not to join the European Union. At the same time, they opened their borders. And so there is a way, let's say, by violating the EU's borders, to break the readmission agreement across Norway. In view of this, this was a requirement on the part of the EU, if we are to take the next steps towards the implementation of the visa-free regime plan, we cannot somehow overcome this problem, it must be addressed. The problem is that in the past few years, there has been no violation of the Ukrainian border, as it were, of Norway in terms of illegal migration. The great deception is that this will require serious financial contributions from Ukraine. Because in fact, there will be no immigrant in Ukraine who will break the border with Norway. It is an obligation at the expense of Norway to transfer such an immigrant to a country of permanent residence rather than to a country of transit. And so this is a big hoax. Moreover, such funds for all appropriate measures in relation to illegal migration are foreseen between Ukraine and the EU at a level of $30 million, which is sufficient to ensure that this minor problem is addressed in a free, open Europe. We have to vote in favour. We support this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u44	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the matter has been discussed. I am voting on a proposal by the Committee on the Approval of the Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Kingdom of Norway on the readmission of persons. [[Registration number 0219]] Please vote. [[10:53:23]] For 284 Decision taken. Thank you. A draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement on the Rules for the Definition of the Country of Origin of Goods in the Commonwealth of Independent States is being announced for consideration. [[Registration number 0211]] The proposal to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. I'm betting on the vote on this proposal. Please vote. [[10:53:59]] For 207 Decision taken. Reporter is a Government-authorized authority on cooperation with the Russian Federation, member states of the Commonwealth of Independent States, Eurasian Economic Cooperation and other regional associations of Muntián Valeriy Ivanovich. The Coroner is the first deputy head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the Blackwall Terrace. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u45	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! A new agreement on the rules for determining the country of origin of goods in the Commonwealth of Independent States has been developed according to the rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u46	Dear Valery Ivanovich, you have already been released from the rostrum, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u47	It's a new deal. Excuse me. Dear National Deputies, the new Rules of Procedures for the Definition of the Country of Origin of Goods in the Commonwealth of Independent States are developed in accordance with the rules and principles of the WTO and is responsible. is the general principle of the WTO Agreement on Rules of Origin. A new version of the Rules of Origin defines the country of origin of the goods produced a single approach to the confirmation of the country of origin of the goods, a single form of the ST-1 certificate is approved, the requirements and the order of its completion. With regard to the warnings proposed to ratify the SND country-of-origin Regulation, the government of 11 May of this year has adopted to ratify the draft law with the following warnings. First, except for headings 85, 28, 85.08, 85.165.2000 and 85.21.0000, which provides for the protection of national manufacturers, monitors and projectors, vacuum cleaners, microwaves, DVD players and provides for the prohibition of imports into Ukraine of selected goods in free trade, i.e. free of charge. Second, a warning about position 17.01. Sugar cane or beetroot and chemically pure sucrose in solid form provides for a ban on free trade without paying the duty of a cheaper one. Sugar from SND states that will help protect the national sugar complex. At the same time, on May 17, the Russian Federation decided to import goods into the Russian Federation using tropical oils. In view of the above, the government proposes to take the Committee’s proposal into account in Ukraine’s foreign affairs, namely, ratifying the treaty with warnings.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u48	Please announce your warning.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u49	Four warnings. Ukraine reserves the right to determine the country of origin of the goods by applying the following criteria: It's at 1516 fat and butter. When produced in the value of the materials used, they should not exceed 50 percent of the value of the final product. It's 1517 margarine. In manufacturing, the value of materials of headings 1511 and 1513 of coconut oil should not exceed 50 percent of the value of the final product. Finally, I want to say that the Government of Ukraine will investigate the situation of imports into Ukraine of goods by codes from the Russian Federation and the CIS countries. In the event of an increase in imports, adequate measures will be taken as provided for in Ukraine's legislation. Please be supportive. Thank you, distinguished deputies, for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u50	Taras Cnerwell, First Deputy Head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Please make recommendations to the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u51	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear fellow national MPs! Regarding the draft law on the ratification of the agreement on the identification of the origin of goods in the SND, our committee has studied this document in great detail and carefully. And I want to make a mark here. Let's give it a little bragging, but let's say it. That at a time when there are others, they are not the main ones, but profile committees usually miss documents without serious consideration. Our committee, although we're internationalists, not agrarians, not transporters, not in other fields, we're very much studying and in such documents we really find painful points and correct them. So it's very important that this is what the international committee is doing, just preparing for ratification. As far as this covenant is concerned. In it, Ukraine really needs it in its entirety. It really has a special relevance now that there are serious negotiations on a free trade area within the SND. There's only one problem. Even after the signing of this agreement, unfortunately, Russia, at the time of the ratification of the State, had made a major change to it, which caused very serious damage to the Ukrainian economy, to Ukrainian producers. In this regard, the committee, after considering the text of the ruling itself, considered the ratification decision of the Russian Federation and interested parties in Ukraine, concluded that we should actually ratify the agreement. But in the ratification law, where there are a whole series of deletions and observations that are absolutely correct about the content of the law itself, add 4 specific points. These points are fully consistent with the Cabinet of Ministers. And to you, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, the appeal to Mikola Azarov, announced on Monday, came an official letter from the Minister of Economics, Andrija Klava, confirming the full position that Mr. Muntián, a government-authorized SND, has just said: "At the value of the materials used, the value of the materials should not exceed 50 per cent of the value of the final production."
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u52	Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u53	"For product item 1517: in production, the value of materials of heading 1511, 1513 shall not exceed 15 per cent of the value of the final product." At all other points, we do not have trade exchanges and supplies in the SND countries at critical points, and there is no need to impose any special additional standards. Therefore, we ask for these warnings, which are agreed upon with Kabmin, to be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u54	Thank you. I've got them, I've got them. Dear colleagues, please sign up for a discussion. Yes, please, the names of the national MPs. Ivan Popescu, faction of the Party of the Regions. Then Vladimir Moisik.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u55	Thank you. Sand, faction of the Party of the Regions. Ladies and gentlemen, I will not repeat exactly everything our colleague Muntian has said, and our colleague Cranvill. And I'd like to make a proposal to the Regional Party. A party of regions will vote in favour of ratifying this agreement, taking into account the four warnings made by the Cabinet of Ministers during his speech by both the Kabmin representative and the representative of the Professional Committee. So we call on everyone to vote yes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u56	Yes, Vladimir Moses.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u57	Vladimir Moses, Party "For Ukraine!".. Hand over the Prince.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u58	Ruslan Knyazevich, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u59	Thank you, Volodymyr Romanovich. Dear Head! Dear colleagues! Well, actually, I think that the key, in terms of ratifying this document, said Mr. Cnerwell's representative that the latest changes to the ratification law are such a glimmering reaction to what, let's say, is not the symmetrical and not entirely friendly actions of the State Duma of the Russian Federation, which in the last minute is obviously against the background of those events that are taking place around Ukraine-Russian relations in recent weeks, has made a sudden decision and this series of, say, commodity groups and goods has eliminated as a warning to this law. And so it's clear that we have to react in some way to these things. Although very, I'll tell you, it's a bad precedent, because that means that, despite the fact that we're ratifying this agreement today, we have quite an interesting surprise and a nuisance in this regard. Because I understand that the trade war is only about to begin, especially in the light of the latest statements made by the Russian Federation leadership, that if Ukraine joins the zone of free trade with the European Union, we are expected to close all customs borders according to the Russian Federation and the countries of the Customs Union. And so the whole point of this ratification is null and void. But as they say, we'll see. At this point, I understand that we need to ratify, and that's why we don't have any warnings. The other thing is that we're doing a pretty interesting thing. For the first time in the law of ratification, we make warnings. Usually, warnings are made when signing, because in accordance with the International Contracts Act and in accordance with the Constitution, we only consent to the obligation of the instrument itself. If we have any comments on the document itself, we need to resign the document itself instead of making a warning in the ratification law. Because if we go this way, we can, you know, represent the tail number here, that we can just change the image of the radiation at all and the content that came in when the documents were signed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u60	Yuri Prokopchuk, "BUT" faction, "The Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u61	Please pass the word to Mikola Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u62	Mikola Tomenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u63	Dear colleagues, I think we should stick to the strategy that we have defined by the Supreme Council Order, which, by the way, has been prepared by the Committee on Foreign Affairs, which has been voted by most of the factions of Parliament and which has been the result of our parliamentary hearings on the principles of cooperation with the European Union and with the SND countries. Our position was very clear there. I think it's absolutely right and can serve, such a strategic guide in the external economic sphere. We warned that Ukraine should stand for the principles and establishment of a free trade zone with the countries of the European Union and with the countries of the SND on the principles and principles of the World Trade Organization. Our approach is not to create trade on one side of the planet, but with other principles on the other side of the planet. There must be general principles and common benefits for Ukraine, principles with which we do not work. So once again, I would like to point out that, indeed, with the Committee’s principled position in foreign affairs, we must make these warnings, since we must also protect our agricultural producer. By the way, to honor and to the Agrarian Policy Committee, they also asked that it be part of protectionism regarding agricultural products. So the two committees here, I think, were more patriotic than the government. After the two committees made these warnings, the government supported us. Therefore, the BUT faction and I think the opposition in general will vote solely on the terms of these warnings, which guarantee the protection of free circulation and the sale of our agricultural products in the territory of the Russian Federation and the territory of the SND in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u64	Ladies and gentlemen, the matter has been discussed. The agreement can be ratified at the same time as the warnings given to both the reporter and the committee. With these warnings, I put to the vote a motion for approval of the Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Agreement on the Rules of Procedure for the Definition of the Country of Origin of the Commonwealth of Independent States. [[Registration number 0211]] Please vote. [[11:06:40]] For 257 The law is passed. The draft Law on Ratification of the SND Cooperation Agreement on the creation, use and development of an interstate network of information and marketing centres for the promotion of goods and services for national markets is being announced. [[0212]] The proposal to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. I'll put this motion to the vote. [[11:07:17]] For 208 Decision taken. The rapporteur is the first Deputy Minister for Agriculture Policy and Food, Dmitri Bezuglý and co-rapporteur, the first deputy head of the Committee, Taras Crnowil.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u65	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! Ukraine's draft Law on Ratification of the SND Cooperation Agreement for the creation, use and development of an interstate network of information and marketing centres for the promotion of SND products and services to national markets designed to improve the efficiency of socio-economic and humanitarian processes, to strengthen trade links, to open up access to new opportunities, to electronic interaction between SND participating States on the basis of equal and mutually beneficial cooperation. The bill proposes to ratify the SND State Cooperation Agreement in the creation, use and development of an inter-State network of information and marketing centres for the promotion of goods and services of SND States to national markets, signed on 21 May 2010 in St. Petersburg, and takes effect in Ukraine after 30 days of receiving the notification of Ukraine's implementation of domestic procedures, namely ratifications. Assuring the validity of the agreement will facilitate the establishment and development of an interstate network of information and marketing centres for the promotion of goods and services to national markets. This will remove information barriers between producers and consumers of products and services, provide conditions for finding new markets in a changing environment, stimulate the development of market infrastructure in cooperative countries, and promote the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. Considering that the adoption of the proposed draft law will create favourable conditions for Ukraine's co-operation with the SND member states in the commercial and economic sphere and will enhance the positive impact of the mentioned cooperation on the national economy. Roshu to support the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u66	Thank you, too. Please have a seat. Taras Blackwall is from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u67	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues of the Ukrainian National Deputies! The Committee on Foreign Affairs at its meeting reviewed the draft law and adopted a unanimous decision to support its adoption by the Supreme Council. The bill provides for mandatory ratification of the agreement on the cooperation of SND States in the creation, use and development of an interstate network of information and marketing centres for the promotion of goods and services. Especially, and first of all, we see this from who the reporter and where the budget spending are on this issue is related to agricultural products. We know that we are constantly having problems with the production of products, particularly from Ukraine to consumers in the Russian Federation, in other countries of the SND. Very often, it is not because of any evil intentions or commercial wars but because of the lack of normal means of direct communication. It is these centers that must ensure normal bilateral contact. And since the Ukrainian state is still a major producer of agrarian products, we have a special interest in creating such centers and passing information from our manufacturer to a potential consumer in other countries, members of the SND. In this regard, our committee has come to the unanimous conclusion that this treaty can be ratified. As for the cost of using it, it's not too expensive, but it does exist. However, they are already foreseen by the Ukrainian State Budget for 2011 under KPC 280-10-10 – "general management and management of the agri-industrial complex". All interested parties, committees, etc. and scientific and expert authorities confirm that the agreement can be ratified by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please support the committee's decision and vote in favour of ratification.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u68	Dear colleagues, no warning? Can we make a decision? No one insists on the performance? No, it's not. Please, Vladimir Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u69	Good morning, Ukraine! Dear colleagues, our constituents! It seems to me that the ratification of this document is very symbolic: obviously, we have to move on to pragmatism with Russia, move on to international trade rules, in this case it's about agriculture, obviously we have to think about moving on to the same standards in other, so to speak, manufacturing areas. That's why it's good. Today, it has been suggested that almost all these norms come from World Trade Organization standards. But, of course, we should bear in mind that Russia is not yet a member of the WTO today, and as far as I have information, somewhere in the near future, and is not going to enter it, we should bear that in mind. That is why we support the ratification of this bill. It's very necessary and, indeed, it's a civilizational project that normalizes our relationship with Russia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u70	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Please, Ivan Popescu. I asked you, there are those who want to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u71	Thank you. I didn't want to speak to my previous colleague. Dear colleagues! The position of the Party of Regions is that we will ratify. And we're going to ratify this agreement for two main reasons. First reason. We're dealing with the promotion of our products in the SND markets, and this is primarily about agriculture. You know other markets, unfortunately, we don't have much, and that's why we have to solve this. And the second question is, it's going to have an economic effect on our economy, because it matches the political agenda of our party, of course, we're going to vote and we're going to invite everyone to do that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u72	May I put it to the vote? The proposal to approve the Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Agreement on the Cooperation of States Parties to the SND in the Creation, Use and Development of the Interstate Network of Information and Marketing Centres for the Promotion of Goods and Services to National Markets, please vote. [[Registration number 0212]] [[11:14:31]] For 258. Decision taken. Dear National Deputies! I propose a draft law on the ratification of the Credit Agreement between Ukraine and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. [[Registration number 0213]] The committee's proposal to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. I'm putting this motion to a vote. [[11:15:10]] For 208 Decision taken. The reporter is Minister of Energy and Coal Industry Yuri Boyko. The Coroner is the first deputy head of the Committee in the foreign affairs of Taras Cnerovil.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u73	Dear National Deputies! You will be presented with the draft Law on the Ratification of the Credit Agreement (Under the Construction of the 750 kW Power Line Zaporozka AES-Kahovska) between Ukraine and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. This is a very important building for us. Because it will on the one hand increase the safety of Zaporozhye’s work, on the other hand it will increase the reliability of electricity supply in the South. The loan is granted to the EBRD under very long-term conditions, and the loan deadline is 15 years. The debt period is 3 years, the rate is about 2.7 percent, the conditions are comfortable and I ask you to support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u74	Thank you, too. Have a seat, please. Taras Cranville.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u75	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues of the Ukrainian National Deputies! The Committee on Foreign Affairs has studied the agreement and the relevant ratification law in detail. Our conclusion on this point is that it's a truly beneficial loan, a good infrastructure project and an absolutely necessary investment in our energy field, allows us to redistribute the energy capabilities within Ukraine, within industrial regions. And that's why the work was necessary. Borrowing does not fully cover all building needs; much of the work is done by the State Budget of Ukraine and by appropriate energy companies. But a certain amount of money was needed to be able to do construction work quickly and efficiently, without delay. We've studied this project, this direction. It has already carried out the basic removal of the earth. So there's a certainty and a guarantee that this particular project will not be delayed, as, unfortunately, there was, somewhere in 2006 or 2007, a volume on another similar project, when I think, "The hops AES-Kiyivska". There was a project where funds were also allocated. And unfortunately, too much money was taken back then, but unfortunately, the government at the time didn't work properly, properly, the processing system itself. The issue of taking the land, and so forth, was not addressed. In this case, we have to give the proper Ministry of Fuel and Energy. It's very serious. And by the time the loan was received, the first and the main work was done. In this case, there are guarantees that Ukraine will be able to absorb these funds quickly, effectively, for the things that are really necessary. The European Bank for Reconstruction and Development is the bank that works mainly to stimulate and support important, state-specific infrastructure projects. We ask you to support this ratification, and all interested parties, including the Supreme Council Committees and the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority, support ratification.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u76	MPs, is anyone insisting on this? Please sign up. I see you insist. Names of the national MPs, please. Ivan Popescu, faction of the Party of the Regions and Oleg Zarubinsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u77	Thank you. Sand, faction of the Party of the Regions. The great colleagues, the position of the Party of Regions is as follows. Ratification of the credit agreement of the Supreme Council and its implementation will contribute to improving the quality and reliability of production and electricity transmission in the southern regions of Ukraine, where it is insufficient. Which will have a positive effect on both the population of these areas and the national economy. And since the work in this direction has already begun, we consider it appropriate to ratify immediately in order to implement this project. Thank you. A party of regions will be in favor.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u78	Oleg Zarubinsky, People's Party faction, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u79	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. There are several positives in this agreement, more specifically the positives are promising in its implementation. It was rightly pointed out by the representative of the Main Committee that the issue here is not only about the infrastructure provision of the southern regions of Ukraine, but it is very important that the implementation of this agreement provides additional security assurances to the Zaporezian AES. I don't think we should comment here. And everyone understands how important this is. That's the first positive. Another positive. It seems to me that negotiations have been conducted properly in terms of the comfort of meeting the terms of this agreement. When it comes to 15 years of repayment of the loan at such percentages as was announced by the minister, I think that might be a sample of signing for similar contracts. What's more, if you look at the retrospective, when the agreements of your own time were signed and below a few dozen percent that you can really qualify as bond agreements. Here, I think a loan is taken with reason and common sense. Well, it's a general summary. If we're talking about the need to increase the energy efficiency of the Ukrainian economy, then this agreement is certainly being addressed and can actually result in more efficient use of electricity in areas that are not as simple in economic terms as the southern regions. Based on what has been said, the People's Party faction will unanimously support the ratification of the agreement, and vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u80	Stanislav Arjevitin, one minute. Then Vladimir Yavorowski, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u81	Dear national deputies, we really need to support this agreement. 15-year loan, interest rate 2.7, as the minister said with the possibility of issuing subcredits. These are very attractive, very good conditions. But I wanted to point out that unfortunately, in the treaty itself, these numbers cannot be traced. And if I were to ask myself what the price of this loan should be in the contract, it is written in one place that a one-time price should be paid for the loan itself – 1 percent, the other article says – the commission's rate of liability is 0.5 percent. Where the interest rate is based, it is recorded that the floating rate is applied. Or if the borrower doesn't want to swim, he takes the standard bets. Where the standard rate is determined the contract is not recorded. So I have a request like this: when agreements like this are made, the key things should be clearly prescribed. And in general, of course, this covenant needs to be maintained.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u82	Vladimir Yavorowski, "BUT" faction, "The Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u83	Vladimir Yavorowski, "Clock of Yulia Timoshenko", city of Kirovograd. I would just like to add to the fact that energy specialists at the Timoshenko House of July and the Fatherland party have been very meticulous in studying this document for all of the, as it were, versions that might be, and have concluded that this document really needs to be ratified. It's good for Ukraine, it'll help us, a smarter redistribution of our existing and real energy. We are fully supportive, and I think the ratification will be successful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u84	Catherine Samuel, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u85	Our faction will also support the ratification of this loan agreement. And we're also starting from where I come from, first of all, you know, lately I've been looking at, for example, changes to the state budget of Ukraine, something I don't see in the distribution of funds in the south of Ukraine. I have the impression that it is sometimes made to be a depressive region of our country. And I'm very happy that the loan agreement that is in question in the South of Ukraine is about efficiency, the quality, the reliability of production and the transfer of electricity. And it's also impressive that the supplier's dependence on imported fuel is decreasing. This applies directly to both my region and my colleagues from Zaporozhye, our New Kahovka. And that's why, of course, we're going to be supporting and thanking the Ministry, the Ministry of Profiles, which today brought this kind of bill to the attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u86	Ladies and gentlemen, the matter has been discussed. I am voting on the proposal to approve the Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Credit Agreement between Ukraine and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Please vote. [[11:25:07]] For 288 Decision taken. Dear National Deputies! I propose to you the draft Act ratifying the Eighth Additional Protocol to the Statute of the World Postal Union. [[Registration number 0214]] The committee's proposal is to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[11:25:44]] For 204 Decision taken. In connection with the illness of the Head of the State Liaison Service, the first Deputy Head of the State Liaison Service, Olena Mikhailovna, will report. The Coroner is the first deputy head of the Committee in the foreign affairs of Taras Cnerovil.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u87	Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! You are considering the draft Law on Ratification of the Eighth Additional Protocol to the Statute of the World Postal Union, designed to implement the Ukrainian Law on International Treaties of Ukraine and the requirements of the Statute of the World Postal Union. The World Postal Union develops general rules for international postal exchange. Today, the World Postal Union is made up of 191 countries in the world, including Ukraine. According to the Statute of the World Postal Union, amendments to it by the Universal Postal Congress are accepted as additional protocols and subject to ratification. The draft act is intended to ratify the Eighth Additional Protocol to the Statute of the World Postal Union, which was signed on behalf of Ukraine at the XXIV Congress, in accordance with the credentials given by the President of Ukraine. The purpose of the law is to comply with international and national laws. According to the Eighth Additional Protocol, the Statute of the Universal Postal Union defines such terms as "designated operator", "warning", a number of articles of the Statute have been completed. The adoption of the law will enable the creation of legal guidelines for the further development of the Ukrainian postal sector, the protection of the interests of the State within the framework of the World Postal Union and its position as a full member of the world postal society. In view of the above, please support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u88	Thank you, too, Olena Mikhailny. Tarasse Vjačeslavovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u89	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues of the Ukrainian National Deputies! The committee at its meeting studied in detail, considered the bill and unanimously endorsed its adoption by the Supreme Council. The main scientific and expert office, the Transport and Communications Committee, supports the ratification of the document. Additional funds, above the amounts that Ukraine pays as its contributions, are not needed in this case. Now, very briefly, what was needed to make those changes and what might be interesting to both Ukraine and the final consumer in Ukraine. Well, first of all, we, as members of the post office union, have an appropriate responsibility for synchronous activities both in the legislative sphere and in support of all the methods of activity that are enshrined in the Statute of the International Postal Union. Therefore, it is clear that ratification was mandatory for us, otherwise there would be a difference between Ukraine and other members of the Union. The Statute introduces quite a number of fundamental, serious changes in terminology. Since information technology, the characteristics of postal communication have recently undergone dramatic changes, these changes modernize the Statute and remove readings that may arise on the contacts of postal and other methods. Mainly, that is, powerful changes in terminology are taking place throughout the text of the statute. The main fundamental change in text is parts 1.7 and 1.8, as said. These are the points where the designated operator is defined and the warnings are defined. And besides, it's a very important moment, in my view, which concerns the rights of the final consumer. According to the amendments to article 8, it is stated that members of the Alliance can only be accepted if they never make provisions that are less favourable to the population than those provided for by acts that are created by appropriate members of the Union. So please support this project.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u90	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'd like you to sign up for a discussion, if that's what you need. Vladimir Yavorowski. Then John the Pessimus. Vladimir Yavorowski, "BUT" faction, "The Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u91	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters, the Yulia Tymoshenko Block, has meticulously studied the meaning of this ratification and thinks it's a purely technical document that is even more civilized, let's say, our postal system. Because it's only about an additional protocol, that is, a supplement, which is to improve the status of the World Postal Union. Of course, it takes a long time for our mail to be fully in line with global standards. But at the same time, today it's obviously modernizing, working internationally more effectively than ever. Because of this we fully support, the Yulia Timoshenko Block supports this document and thinks it will only go for the development of our Ukrainian state and our Ukrainian society.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u92	Ivan Popescu, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u93	Thank you. Sand, faction of the Party of the Regions. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm only going to pay attention to three moments. First moment. Ratification of the protocol will help create legal frameworks for the development of the postal sector in Ukraine at the level of countries such as Britain, France and others. The other one. This will ensure the protection of Ukraine’s interests within the framework of the World Postal Union, which is important today. And the third. Ratification of this protocol does not require financial expenditure from the state budget. Taking these three points into account, the Party of Regions will vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u94	Ruslan Knyazevich, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u95	I want to say that our faction will also support the law, based on the following considerations. In fact, the international agreement itself was signed, the charter, in 1964. And obviously, then, in the middle of the last century, there was no far-sighted realization of the things that we have today. Because you can now say that this attempt, let's say, to make changes to the statute is a response to the challenges of time. Because as far as I'm concerned, our traditional post office is now entering such a phase in the fight against the new electronic technology of information transfer and other ways. And so if it doesn't modernize, if it doesn't keep up with time, it just loses this battle in the future. This is a perfectly justified step, especially for Ukraine, which unfortunately is still on the verge of European and world processes, including the traditional transport of information and postal documentation. In view of these circumstances, I think no one will object to our faction, and I think we will give enough votes to make a decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u96	Ladies and gentlemen, the matter is closed. I am voting on a proposal by the Committee on the Approval of the Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Eighth Additional Protocol to the Statute of the World Postal Union. [[Registration number 0214]] Please vote. [[11:33:44]] For 280 Decision taken. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I am announcing a draft Act on the Ratification of the Agreement on Contributions between Ukraine and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development concerning Ukraine's participation in the Eastern European Partnership Fund with Energy Efficiency and Environment. The rapporteur is a government-authorized authority on cooperation with international financial organizations and the involvement of international technical assistance, Anatoly Arkadyovich Maksuta. The committee suggests that the issue be considered in a simplified procedure. I'll put this motion to the vote. Please vote. [[11:34:33]] For 212 Decision taken. Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u97	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The draft law, which is before you, is drafted in accordance with the Ukrainian Law on International Contracts for Ukraine in order to give Ukraine its consent to the Agreement on Contribution between Ukraine and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development concerning Ukraine's participation in the Eastern European Partnership and Energy Efficiency and Environment Fund, signed on 24 February this year in Kiev. The Fund is created through pooling investment contributions to finance grants and technical assistance in implementing projects that increase energy efficiency and improve the environment, resulting in significant reductions in electricity consumption, reduced carbon dioxide emissions, and other greenhouse gases. Fund resources will normally be used in combination with the credit resources of international financial institutions to implement priority projects for the modernization of heat and water supply and water supply in the cities of Ukraine. In accordance with the Fund’s rules, its activities focus on Ukraine. The Fund’s rules are an integral part of the agreement and determine that the administration and use of the fund’s resources, the management of the fund, and the principles of the distribution of fund grants and the criteria for the selection of investment projects with energy efficiency, and the development of municipal infrastructure. The Fund is managed by the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which provides administrative support to the Fund itself. The Fund’s governing body is a meeting of investors that provides overall supervision of the Fund’s work and approves projects that are selected by the coordinating group if the country where the project will take place is agreed upon, i.e. Ukraine. The agreement provides for Ukraine’s contribution of 10 million euros to the fund, which will be paid annually for 5 years by 2 million euros. So far, it's in line with the fund's rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u98	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u99	The corresponding costs are provided in the contribution budget. A request for support.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u100	Thank you. First Deputy Head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Taras Cnerwell, please. Oh, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Head of the Committee on European Integration, Boris Tarasyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u101	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! At its meeting on 15 June, the Committee on European Integration considered the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between Ukraine and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development on Ukraine's participation in the Eastern European Partnership for Energy Efficiency and Environment. Ratification of the agreement will allow Ukraine to become a full member of the fund and have the right to vote when deciding on its activities, how to use the funds of the fund. Ukraine's participation in the fund will allow it to use the funds of the fund to prepare priority projects in the field of energy conservation and efficiency aimed at enhancing efficiency in the use of fuel and energy resources. The work of the Eastern European Partnership Fund in the coming years is expected to focus on financing projects in our country, Ukraine. In the Committee’s view, the ratification of this agreement will improve the quality of heat and water services, allowing energy conservation and energy efficiency to be improved. The Committee is of the view that it is appropriate to ratify the said agreement, which is in line with the conclusions of the Chief Scientific and Expert Directorate, as well as with the decisions of the Supreme Council Committees in foreign affairs, on budgetary matters, on environmental policy and on environmental management and on the elimination of the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster and on the issues of the fuel and energy complex, nuclear policy and nuclear security. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u102	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please sign up for the discussion. Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party, then Vladimir Moisik.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u103	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Dear colleagues, Ukraine's contribution to this fund, I'm on the case, 10 million euros. 2 million euros a year for 5 years. The general fund is about 130 million euros. In a letter. I want to show this logical chain that this is an easy bargain. In a letter from 23.11.2010, the EBRD gives, well, actually, this commitment, they're serious people, you know, they don't change their words, in the next few years, they're going to invest exclusively in projects that will be implemented in Ukraine. So the basic arithmetic shows that it's just fundamentally convenient for us, and not just from the point of view of our participation in the Eastern European partnership, there are political aspects here, whether we like it or not, this formulation and our presence alongside other, not entirely European-oriented countries, but in a purely economic sense, our ratification today is convenient for Ukraine. And the important point is, I want to make this point, the funds are pointed out, and in line with the agreement, they're going to be provided on a non-reversible basis, and they're going to be used for the preparation and implementation of IFF-related investment infrastructure projects. So this is what's called green light in our direction. In that case, I think it's worth supporting this, absolutely certain, that the faction of the People's Party will vote unanimously for this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u104	Vladimir Moysik refers to Stanislav Arzevetin's speech, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Then Gregory Smythuch, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u105	Dear national MPs, of course, need to support this agreement, and our state's contribution to the fund, this, of course, as you've heard, will give you the opportunity to get multiple return tranches that will come to Ukraine, I think it's important. I think it's also important for our country to get advice and technical assistance on how we implement today's energy technologies in Ukraine, and I think that's important too. On the other hand, I think wise people will come to us, and perhaps we will be a little ashamed of the environment we have in our country, especially in the Carpathian region. Without a doubt, considering that our nation has a serious and significant relationship with the European Bank for Reconstruction and Presence, and participating in such a fund is simply an objective necessity, it was only to wish that the Ukrainian side in this fund would at least be given the position of alternate fund, and this would allow more active attention to our nation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u106	Gregory Smythuch, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u107	Dear National Deputies! I will especially support this bill. Because I think it's one example that really deserves to be voted not only by the ruling faction, but by all one hundred percent vote by the halls, because it's really convenient for Ukraine. Because today's environmental situation is that we need to intervene, including professionals and foundations and others, because there are threats to many of our regions that are in the so-called zone of risk of technological catastrophes, and certainly here all the efforts that might need to be involved. And Mr. Zarubinski has already said that these conditions, which are very convenient, I will not repeat them. At the same time, I would like to contact you and return to the issue of ratification of the Agreement with the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development number 0213. Unfortunately, the minister left the hall. I wanted to ask him one question. And why did it happen that we are building an energy situation, energy is the basis of industry in Ukraine, and industry, which is characterized by economic conditions, including the situation in which the economy as a whole is located. And something like this has happened that our country's industry is sustaining the energy produced in Ukraine, including by heat stations, which are throwing out some harmful excesses of combustion of some kind of fuel and threatening our ecological condition or deterioration. And something like that happened is that we're exporting energy to the same European country at a price lower than the internal market. I'd like Mr. Minister to get an answer from him, what's the trend in that regard? Because I think that Ukraine's economy is based on industry, and Ukraine's industry needs to be raised. The industry cannot rise when it gets an unmarketed attitude, although Ukraine has joined the market relations, including by joining the WTO. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u108	Vladimir Yavorowski, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u109	Vladimir Yavorowski, "Clock of Yulia Timoshenko", city of Kirovograd. What are Ukraine’s most painful problems today? It's energy efficiency. We're somewhere in one of the last places, we're just eating the same gas, and we're eating the same electricity with the same technology. Because of this energy efficiency, one of the most painful problems is also the moment of our dependence on Russia and so on. Another problem. It's an environmental situation. Post-Norbile Ukraine is the first degree. The other one. Ukraine today, in fact, is thrown with plastic bottles, balls -- places that are alive, in fact, almost impossible to find. These two problems will be solved by this fund. I would also like to remind us that, literally half an hour ago, we accepted 175. It was agreed that the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development would lend us 175 million euros. Because 175 million and 10 million that we have to pay to this fund, they say.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u110	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u111	They're talking about themselves, and because of that, Yulia Timoshenko's Block supports ratification.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u112	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! Question completed. I am voting on the proposal of the Committee on European Integration to approve the Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Agreement on Contributions between Ukraine and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development concerning Ukraine's participation in the Eastern European Partnership on Energy Efficiency and Environment Fund. [[Registration number 0215]] Please vote. [[11:47:01]] For 278 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, by factions? Please. Region Party – 168, "BUT – Fatherland" – 12, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 30, communists – 25, "Reforms for the Future" – 20, National Party – 20, non-factional – 3. Honourable National Deputies, the draft Act amending article 4 of the Ukrainian Act on State Social Assistance to Lowly Provided Families is under review. [[concerning the clarification of individual positions]] The committee's proposal to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. I'm putting this motion to a vote. [[11:47:59]] For 197 Decision taken. The reporter and co-reporter is the head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons Valeriy Suškević. Four minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u113	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, the bill is purely technical. It is proposed to amend article 4 of the Ukrainian Law on State Social Assistance to low-income families and to provide for the inclusion in a low-income family of children who are trained on a day-to-day basis in general educational institutions until the age of 23 years and who do not have their own families. The point is that this rule has always been in the law in force. But in the introduction of several laws, amendments to the Ukrainian Law on State and Social Assistance to Low-Supplied Families have technically come up with this word, which has always been in the text of the law. In this regard, I and the Supreme Council Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons have changed, converted, in fact, this word, the word "general education", which was mistakenly lost in the drafting of bills. The adoption of the proposed bill does not require additional expenditure from the State Budget. The main scientific and expert office has made no comments to the bill. Please accept, as a whole, the technical bill, which brings back to the body of the law the lost moment in which the word "general educational institutions" is touched. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u114	Thank you. Dear colleagues, if there is a need to comment on this bill, please register. No, we'll vote. Please put the names of the national MPs on the board. Alexander Stoyan, faction of the Party of the Regions. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u115	Dear colleagues, surely, is a very important law that Valeriy Suškevitch reported. Because this is not about all children, but it is about children who live in low - income families and who are taught in public schools, in educational institutions. And clearly this category of children needs to help her finish school, go to a school, to a technical facility, to a technical institution. And by the age of 23, this is the opportunity that will really give this child a young person an education. But I wanted Valery Mikhailovich, well, you said something like that, it fell out like it was on the way, and someone dropped something out of their pocket. And there was a very important position. I wanted you to clarify what authority, when, in what law, this important norm fell out. So she could not mechanically disappear. And we need to find out who didn't want to worry about the children of low-income families. A party of regions will support this unequivocal bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u116	Yuri Prokopchuk, "BUT" faction, "The Fatherland." Next is George Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u117	Obviously, this bill needs to be supported, and in the end, not only to persecute opposition, but to do something for the people, especially for the poor. Because we just got word from the courthouse.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u118	Please, let's do it on the subject. I'm asking you on the subject. On the subject.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u119	The judge is now in Kosovo with our colleague's heart attack because "Griffon" has been rude to him.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u120	Please, by subject. Unplug the microphone, please. Yuri Carmazin. I'm asking you, Your Honor, to make an application, to make an application. Let's talk about it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u121	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! Let us take into account the changes that are now proposed in the Ukrainian Act on State Social Assistance for Lowly Families. And it's about putting just one word into article 4, but the words are very important because there's a question, a document that testifies to what documents are needed, and that goes to those kids who don't only study in vocational schools and higher education institutions, but also in public education institutions. I want to ask you, what's the difference between a kid who's studying at a vocational school or a tech school or a general education? That's why I think we need to adopt this law in the first and second readings right away. There may be objections. I don't think they will. I think that's what happens when the term for a longer child is obvious. And I also wanted to point out that, when we were considering such laws, we remembered that we were now, we were talking about the authorities, the authorities, and where we were in power on June 14th, the first and second readings of the Amendments to the Law on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by Chernobyl, the Children of War, the Pension Insurance of Persons Released from Military Service, and some other persons who were deprived of their salaries. Why are they under the President's administration today? So come on, it's embarrassing, but come on, I'd like to have a majority of the deputies there.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u122	What, what?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u123	In general, support. I have an offer, in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u124	Okay. Vladimir Leschenko, Communist faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u125	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company, Montenegro. The issue of support for low - income families is extremely important and especially for children, so the Communists have always supported the issue. I support the proposal of a profile committee to adopt the bill as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u126	Dear colleagues, the law is actually technical, and obviously we need to accept it and obviously there's nothing to bring to us for second reading. So, as the committee suggests, and there's no objection to the chief expert, scientific and expert management, I'm asking you to back up the question in this area. Adopt, as a whole, the draft Act amending article 4 of the Ukrainian Act on State Social Assistance to Lowly Provided Families. [[concerning the clarification of individual positions]] Is there no objection? None. I'm voting on this proposal. Registration number 8434. Please vote. [[11:55:42]] For 276 The law is passed. Thank you, dear fellows. Now you have a proposal for the Industrial Parks Act. The committee also suggests that the issue be dealt with in a simplified manner. I'm voting on this proposal. Please vote. [[11:56:13]] For 202 Decision taken. The rapporteur is Ukrainian national deputy Vladislav Kaskov. Correspondent is Head of the Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship, Natalia Kraljevska.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u127	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! The Industrial Parks Bill is, without exaggeration, I would say a historic law. Because its implementation can radically increase GDP by implementing the bill. This is particularly true of Ukraine’s next anticipated accession to the free trade zone with the European Union. And in the context of combining these two components, we expect the implementation of the law, namely the creation of industrial parks, to provide a radical increase in production capacity in Ukraine. The law was prepared by a team of factions. Natalia Královska, head of the committee, Mr. Litvinov, Mr. Chechetov. International team, LYNC project, international team of best experts. Three public hearings took place around the bill. In support of it, I'm just going to say that, for example, in the Czech Republic in five to six years, 100 industrial parks have been created, and this has helped to attract 9 billion investments, and to create 70,000 jobs. In our projections, over the next three or four years, at least 7 or 8 billion investments will be made in manufacturing and some 300,000 jobs will be created in Ukraine. If there's a question, I'm ready to answer. Project in first reading. If there's any comments, we'll work on the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u128	Thank you. Thank you. Have a seat. Come on, dear fellows, we've got a little bit of time to take off. We'll listen to the committee's position, and after the break, we'll have a discussion on this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u129	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! The purpose of the bill is to establish rules for the establishment, operation and management of industrial parks. We know that industrial parks around the world are one of the most effective tools for attracting investment. We also understand the deformed industry we have today, the structure of the deformed industry. In which 70 per cent is the share of the core funds. And today, unfortunately, our basic industries are systematically lagging behind. The bill allows experts to open more than 15 strategic national industrial parks of 200 hectares. The main focus is, of course, the economic development of the depressed territories. This will allow special conditions to attract investment in depressed territories today, which will encourage both market infrastructure and modern production. Because the strengthening of innovation and investment capacity in our country does not create special conditions. But not the conditions that we remember when we were experiencing free economic conditions, namely, capital investment and job creation in competitive production, competitive production in line with the 21st century standards, would indeed be a good positive signal. Experts estimate that this instrument will allow for an additional 300,000 jobs over 3-4 years and will attract at least $8 billion to Ukraine's economy. We will also receive an investment in industrial parks of 200 hectares, at least $200 million in each investment park. With the right use of this tool, it will be a really good positive signal and a real economic effect. The Committee requests support for the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u130	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to make an agreement: we'll sign up for the speech now and we'll have a discussion and a decision after the break. Is there no objection? Well, let's see how many people are registered. Please sign up for the performance. Considering that we have three speakers, I announce a break of up to 12 hours 30 minutes in order to comply with the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u131	Dear colleagues, please come into the session room. We're continuing the meeting. A draft Industrial Parks Act is under consideration. Smith Gregory has the word. Prepare for Blackwolf.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u132	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! Gregory Smythuch, Party of Regions, Volin. In fact, I am considering the issue of a reduced procedure, although I am against such a procedure, Act 8396. As a national MP, it is not clear to me that Mr. Kaskov reported from a deputy or from the head of the National Agency. I'd like to get some clarity for myself. [[Muted microphone]] What does this bill offer? Reimbursement of interest on the bank loan involved. Banks, commercial banks don't belong, they belong to commercial structures. And today these banks have very high, non-market rates and continue to abuse our businesses. The budget provides for the repayment of the loan. And it goes like this: at the expense of the budget, including this law, we're going to feed private foreign banks. Is it fair or unfair? In my opinion, it's not fair. Does it benefit or not? He won't. Are we doing the country or are we not doing it? It's my belief. The second question. Depreciation acceleration. If these are new technologies, what are the amortization accelerations we're talking about? What accelerated depreciation? On the contrary, it's a new technology on modern materials, technology processes should work in a normal way, in my mind. Question three. Illuminators. But of course, if we are talking about benefits, we have recently adopted the Tax Code, and there is a clear and clear indication of whom and what priorities we give in the country. And then the main five and the sixth are the alternative sources of energy. I'll remind you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u133	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u134	Airfare, shipbuilding, hotel complex, light industry, and rural machinery. And as a separate law goes by the green tariff on energy. That's why I'm particularly, and considering that he, this law, contradicts the Earth Code, interferes with the Earth Code, does not conform to the Earth Code, has not been discussed on a committee, I'm against such a law.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u135	Taras Blackwall, the Reform Group for the Future. Behind him is Tuck Roman.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u136	Please give the floor to Sidelnik Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u137	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the “Reforms for the Future” Group proposes to support this bill, which establishes the legal and institutional framework for the establishment and operation of industrial parks in Ukraine. The adoption of the bill primarily provides for a substantial simplification of the procedure for obtaining permits and licences. These functions will be assumed by the management companies in the industrial parks. Investors will be given the opportunity to start operations in the already prepared land area with the necessary engineering infrastructure and communications. I will no longer produce the figures that the drafters have called. But here are two of these: over 300,000 jobs, over $8 billion. What will prevent us from doing so in Ukraine? And experts say there are no industrial parks in those countries that don't think about the future. The Reforms for the Future therefore proposes to support the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u138	Roman Tjak, please, microphone, out of place.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u139	Dear colleagues, dear Adam Ivanovich! In general, by supporting the idea of creating industrial parks that are, in principle, a variety of free economic development zones, I still want to make serious warnings. First, if you seriously read it, 90 percent of this bill is about land issues. And unfortunately, this bill was not considered on our committee. You know, I don't want to go through the articles here right now, but there are these things here, I don't know, in principle, how to fix for the second reading. You can imagine when a tenant is given land in a suborndant without the renter’s permission. Absolute overturned other issues, such as the Land Code, the right of permanent use is exercised by an enterprise of state, municipal property, disabled organizations, and religious organizations. Here we're saying that industrial parks have the right to have land for continuous use and many other serious observations. So I would still like to ask the hall, if even now, and I see that there are such moods -- to support this bill in the first reading, then the second reading of all of the land issues needs to be dealt with very seriously. And finally. You see, there's about eight pages of note on our administration. That's why we have to look carefully at the land issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u140	Catherine Samuel, one minute, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u141	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, honourable drafter of the bill! I would, of course, like to know if you are familiar with the law that is already in force on science parks. And it's not just about science, it's about manufacturing. And this law is a reference, by the way, not only in the post-space of the former Soviet Union, but it is also a reference for our European state. Moreover, we have worked hard enough on the work of science parks and on the integration of science and technology. I don't understand. Why a separate bill? Unless we claim to be a new leader, more loyal to the agency. But before that, we had to study the laws that are already in force in our country. Even for science parks, we didn't give these kind of benefits, especially on the ground, on the licenses you're predicting here. And that's why I'm asking all of us to send this bill and then we're going to have to finish it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u142	Yes, the discussion is over. The committee has accepted. suggests that we take it as a base. The main scientific and expert office is proposing to correct that the bill needs substantial work. In fact, this was also expressed by MPs. I'm voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Industrial Parks Act. [[Registration number 8396]] [[12:37:19]] For 228 Copy that. We are considering a draft Act amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts to open access to the information of the Single State Register of Legal Persons and Natural Entrepreneurs. There's a proposal for a reduced procedure. Please be supportive. [[12:37:56]] For-170. Please, Natalia Yuriovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u143	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! I propose to your attention a draft law amending some Ukrainian legislation on access to the information of the Single State Register of Legal Persons and Individuals of Entrepreneurs. The purpose of the bill is to resume common access to the Single Register and to create conditions for its widespread use in business. In February, the Cabinet of Ministers cancelled general access to the Single State Register through the Internet. For entrepreneurs, access to information on an enterprise, such as its name, location, whether it is operational or destroyed, whether it is in bankruptcy, is not available. This immediately and negatively affected the reliability of property and business traffic in entrepreneurship. The response of business to the closure of access to the registry was instantaneous, and our committee receives numerous complaints from entrepreneurs and requests that the Single Register be reinstated at the legislative level. What do we suggest? First, to renounce the publication of a specialized print media that publishes information from the Single State Register. Millions of bracelets are spent annually on the farm, at a time when the entire world has long lived on the Internet. Therefore, proposals. Open the Single State Register via the Internet. Abolish the special access of judges to the registry when open access is introduced, and therefore all sense will be lost. To establish that there is only one original copy of the constituent documents and that the copy is stored with the State registrar. This would lead to the abandonment of the institution of duplication and burdensome procedures for obtaining an original and a number of other rules in the event of loss. The Committee proposes that the bill be adopted as a basis. A bill aimed at a freer one.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u144	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u145	A bill aimed at free access to information from enterprises. Because every entrepreneur is required today. Each reference stands for 20 bracelets and the whole country.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u146	Thank you, Natalia Yuriovno. You started your story with this, we remember. Thank you. Have a seat, please. Who wants to share in the discussion? You don't? Sign up then. Arjovitin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u147	Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u148	Microphone, Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u149	Thank you. Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Thank you to my colleague, Arjevitin. Dear National Deputies! Please remember, when we were looking at these bills, about the same arguments that Natalia Yuriovna just said, I was giving George Carmazin a speech and telling you what you're going to make? Why do you spend millions of government funds and thus distance Ukraine from civilization? Everyone today has figured that out, what is the value of this today? And I didn't say right now, Natalie Yuriovn didn't say anything about the corruption component of the cancellation that happened. I would like to remind you that this happened on February 11, 2011, when general access to the information of the Single State Register was interrupted via the Internet. Thus, the corruption component has increased much and many times. As a result, not only does the bill proposed by Natalya Royale have the effect of making business easier but it also indirectly fights against corruption. Because they will not require the help they need. Now I've read a lot of notes from the Science and Technology Department, sometimes there are clear definitions, sometimes there's no. In this case, I don't agree with the scientific expertise's comments, and I think that this bill needs to be adopted immediately in this session, right in this session. It is neither large nor complex. As a result, I propose to support him in his first reading and to entrust the committee on Friday with a revised bill to vote on Friday. It has to be. The Internet should be open to all businesses and to the One.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u150	On Friday of September, you mean. Garbage. Show me the rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u151	Yesterday you voted, you tabled and accepted yesterday.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u152	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! I will vote against this law in particular. And that's why, unfortunately, we haven't reached that opportunity when our information has to be disclosed. Similarly, when our cars are open on the street and no one will touch them when our homes are home, and no one will steal apartments and make houses. Then all the information, including what is proposed in this bill, will be made available. Unfortunately, we live in a country that does not yet provide for the safety of those who engage in entrepreneurial activities, from the influence, including criminal, raiding, and other pleasures. Although, basically speaking, in my view, the information that is proposed is available today in principle. And those organs, and those tax services, and other basic data, except for the amount of money that the founders have, forgive me where they live, and so on and so forth. This is information that I think should be closed. What is proposed by the bill? It's got to be open, it's accessible to everyone, and so on and so forth. Is this a threat to the same entrepreneurs today? I think that's a threat. That's why I don't support this bill, and I'm asking you not to vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u153	Yes, the discussion is over. I'm voting on the committee's proposal. The conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration is to return to work, to the committee as a basis. The proposal for adoption in the first reading is based on the vote of the draft Law amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine to open access to the information of the Single State Register of Legal Persons and Natural Persons of Entrepreneurs. Registration number 8373. [[12:45:42]] For-43 Not supported. The bill was rejected. The factions, please. The Party of Regions – did not vote, BUT – 11, Our Ukraine – 6, Communists – 25, Reforms and the People's Party – did not vote, non-fractional – 1. A draft Law on the Priorities of the National Bank of Ukraine’s monetary and credit policy on economic growth in Ukraine is under consideration. Registration number 6575. There's a proposal for a reduced procedure. I'd like to make up my mind. [[12:46:31]] For a hundred and Offer supported. As told by Láško Oleg Valeriyovich. Prepare for the Poluniev Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u154	Thank you. Dear fellow citizens! First of all, I appeal to those active citizens of Ukraine who are trying to start their own business, who are trying to create jobs that want to make their own money and keep their own family. Unfortunately, most of you today do not have that possibility. And not only is it that high taxes, extremely large corruption, all kinds of checks, but also primarily because of the lack of access to credit resources. Anyone who wants to take a loan today is at least 25 percent of the annual. Whether it's a farmer or an industrial producer or even a young person who wants to start a business after U.S.U., less than 25 percent won't. One equal farmer boasted that he managed to borrow 20 percent of the credit in the bank when the world’s maximum loan rate was 3-5 percent. That is why it is cheaper for 30 of the land that is sold in our shops than for Ukrainian potatoes. Why? Because there's a minimum rate of credit, and we have one that no one can pull out. That is why I propose to the Supreme Council, and I hope that Parliament will support a bill aimed at restoring economic growth in the country through access to credit resources. The bill provides for a maximum interest rate on loans of 5 percent per year, as opposed to the 25 that are today. Such a 5 - percent loan rate will enable increased economic growth in the country, allow millions of active Ukrainians to gain access to credit resources to establish their own business, earn jobs, and create jobs, and allow them to grow and receive their families. Please support this bill aimed at boosting economic growth in the country through access to cheap credit resources. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u155	From the Committee of Poluniev Yuri Volodymyrovich. What's going to be a pancake? Yes, please, Alexander Pecklesenko is the first deputy head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u156	At its meeting on 2 March, the Committee considered the bill and decided to reject it, since the provisions of the bill were contrary to the Ukrainian Constitution. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u157	Yes. If desired, sign up for the talk. Please, Skutak, behind him is Smythech. Arjovitin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u158	Dear Oleg Valeriyovich, unfortunately, the central bank's monetary and credit policy is not regulated by the State Plan. Unfortunately, this is not the institute. Today, of course, it's obvious that we need to improve the monetary policy of the central bank. The central bank's policy should be geared not only to creating a country's emission resource, but rather to prioritizing it to the real economy and its impact on the creative processes. And the National Bank, of course, has to radically change its tools and its activities today on how to refinance banks, and especially on how to control how to channel this resource into the country's economic processes. With regard to the impact on the level of population savings formation, on the improvement of monetary regulation instruments, on the weakening of the shadow economy, on the dollarization of the economy, it is obvious today that the National Bank is mainly focused today on regulating money supply. And what's happening in the economic sphere, in the customer-bank relationship, is not the subject of a central bank observation. The multi-year implementation and release of emission resources only through a currency channel, largely, has weakened the influence of the National Bank on the economic processes of reproduction. Only the release of emission money through a credit mechanism makes it possible to control it. It is now clear that the National Bank must move from classical, for example, German forms of regulation of the banking system to those that are acceptable in transition economies, such as our own state. It's probably happening today, and it's obvious that constitutionally, perhaps, the time is coming that we need to secure behind the central bank not only the stability function of the monetary unit, which, unfortunately, has not happened, but also to contribute to the continued economic growth of the economy. And that limited credit resource must come into the real economy to create an enabling environment for economic growth and, above all, to improve the well-being of Ukrainians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u159	Gregory Smythew.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u160	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! Of course, the idea of curbing or controlling or managing financial resources on the part of the State in Ukraine and in Ukraine’s monetary policy, which we have today, needs to be done. And I've repeatedly pointed out in my speeches that it's impossible to say that we control the price of bread, and banks that want to do so. And Mr. Arjewittin, who is constantly lobbying the banking system, is professionally able to talk about it. I agree with that view of the committee that Mr. Pecklesenko said that it was not the law that should be regulated, it was a completely different law and a completely different approach. But what we need to do in some way is to do something, if we want the economy to develop, if we want the banks to grow and their profits to grow, let's certainly not do anything. Clearly, this question deserves our attention. But I thought this way, when the budget is being formed, when the heads of the National Bank are being heard, when other documents are being declared that regulate or form monetary policy for the following year, there is something to be done about this issue. Because the economy can't develop 20 percent or more, it can't. Can we handle this? I'm counting, we can. Can we control the dollar rate for the bracelet to be stable? We can. We can control the loan rates as well. And don't let the banks take advantage of their capabilities and don't take out all the juices from entrepreneurs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u161	One minute, Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u162	Vladimir Yavorowski, "The House of Yulia Timoshenko – "The Fatherland", town of Kirovograd. Dear colleagues, there are two problems in this situation. The first is the one designated by the national deputy Lazko. And we know about it, I think, that everyone who has a head on their shoulders understands very well that today from the Ukrainian village, which could bring an agrarian, food breakthrough to the world markets, is now completely cash-washed, absolutely! And the peasants have no access to the bank at all. And if he does, he'll never put his head under that guillotine. That's the problem. And this is a colossal problem that needs to be solved at a national level. And there's a second question. Of course, this bill. And of course, before this bill, you can really have some particular point there that he may not be making all the decisions. And maybe we really need to go to the other side. But the very idea, the one that Lakota brought today, and which we are today, in fact, making public and talking about it, is beautiful. And we really need to get to the bottom of this.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u163	Yes, the discussion is over. I'll put it to a vote. The committee's proposing a rejection. The main scientific expertise, the same thing, to reject. And the MP is offering to support it. I'm voting on a proposal for adoption based on the draft Law on the Priorities of Nazbank's monetary and credit policy to restore economic growth in Ukraine. I'd like to make up my mind. [[12:55:42]] For-16 The bill was rejected. Arjovitin, Arjevitin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u164	Dear National Deputies! Especially those who blamed me! I would like to remind you once again that the central bank of Ukraine has to control the emission resource, that is, the credit resource. And not allow this resource to target either the car or the consumer credit, and most of it should work in the real economy. I'm in charge of this function of the central bank.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u165	Read article 51 of the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u166	But to keep the central bank up to date, you can't and can't do that. Because it's a completely different institution. Yes, I lobby the interests of the banking system, but systemic interests! I don't lobby for the interests of individual banks or separate groups. For me, the same is true of customers in the banking system. Protecting the bank protects the customer. So please don't blame me like this. Therefore, this bill does not have the right to life. Thank you for voting like that.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u167	Thank you. We're considering a draft decree on the 50th anniversary of Valentin Felixovich's death. [[Registration number 8476]] There's a proposal for a reduced procedure. Please be supportive. [[12:57:18]] For 171 Yes, please, the author of the initiative, Peter Andrievich Yushchenko. Get ready for Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u168	Luka Vojno-Jasenecki is a confessor, a surgeon, an aggressor, an Orthodox saint. In the Russian-Japanese war, he was the chief physician of the Chinese military hospital. In 1921, he became a priest, and three years later he accepted the bishop’s dream. He was aware that he had been arrested 10 days later. He spent more than 10 years, from the '20s to the '40s, in exile, in prison, conducting conversion tests until 1940. In 1941, Klim Vorosilov was asked to use his gift as a surgeon. During the day and night at Krasnoyarsk, he operated on sick, wounded fighters, and they saluted him with their healed feet. And for his "Pure Surgery Drawings," which he wrote at the same time, in 1951, this confessor, this great genius, he got the first-degree Stalin Prize. By the way, at the Kremlin ceremony, Stalin asked him out loud, saying, "When you were operating, did you see a human soul in your brain?" And he says, "You know, I haven't seen it, but I haven't seen it yet." That's how Luke will allow himself, by the way, and then, during Soviet rule, he didn't perform any operations without Father Ours. After the war he had already devoted himself more to the priesthood, to the ministry, to the archbishop of Crimea and Simferopolski. He's got a lot of work to do with his sermons. And then, as it happens, when he died in 1961, the snow on his grave melts, they receive healing. Bless the synod, discover the power.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u169	Thank you. Have a seat, Peter Andryovich. Please, Yavorowski, from the committee. We've got a pretty full day's work.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u170	Dear colleagues, since we today need to consider the entire system of regulations according to dates, I would like you to immediately understand the position of our Committee on Culture and Spirituality. With a unique interest, Peter Yushchenko, who knows very well, has a colossal memory and possesses, especially in the religious plane, colossal knowledge, but the committee has such an approach. Here are the dates that are purely religious, let's say, are purely religious, and we think that, let's say, such a Jubilee can be celebrated at the level of the Church there and so forth. But there are unique figures, and Luke is one of those articles that combine the world’s glory with its unique, spiritual, religious glory. [[War-Jasenecki]] He is such a completely unique man. This is where the author of the bill said a little bit about him, but this is really a unique man, who in the 1930s, when there was a terrible persecution against the Church, against religious leaders, he, a secular man, was sanctified in a church act. He is arrested twice, sent to Siberia. The person who made a huge breakthrough in medicine that they took advantage of during World War II is these ugliness wounds and so on, gets a Stalin bonus and is being thrown into these prisons at the same time. Because of this, indeed, man is unique, and once again, even if he wasn't a priest, but he was a scientist just like that, I think we should support this bill. For others, we will consult and decide together.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u171	The committee rejected the bill. So please report to the committee, and you can also report your opinion. But the committee's decision is not to falsify the reporter. Yes, are there speakers? Sign up. Mr. Blackwall, please follow him, Karpuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u172	Please pass the word to Soroczynski-Kyrilenko Raisisi.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u173	Deputies! The Reforms for the Future Group is very much asking for the support of this bill. It is human, indeed, unique. He's just a doctor who had 55 jobs in the treatment of festering surgery. He was actively involved in the treatment of people during the Great Homeland War. He had many volumes, 12 volumes of sermons, and he treated the body and soul of man for one moment. And we have to support this bill. Our group of Reforms for the Future will tell you that the head of the Temple of the House of the Patron of the Virgins in Orenda, Father Nicholas has released the book The Way of Luke. And I would also like to suggest that this unique book be reissued. It is essential for our people, our children, to be brought up in matters of humanity and spirituality. Thank you for your attention. The Reform Group for the Future will vote in favour of this decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u174	Vladimir Karpuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u175	Vladimir Karpuk, "Our Ukraine". If, in fact, to return to the height of the spiritual feat of a Jasinecki soldier, this figure does not give rise to any objection. As a doctor, a high-ranking doctor who has maintained a great religion, spirituality, resistance to the system, the inhuman system he has seen, a man who, after losing his family, performed a huge medical feat, working as a professor, and his work, which was already called, which was awarded to the Stalin Prize in the first degree, "Picks of Grissom Septic Surgery." Many generations of surgeons from the Soviet Union and many countries of the world were raised. And so far, this book is authoritative in surgeons who are engaged in ferocious surgery and, indeed, the spiritual feat of the Metropolitan of Luke. But it's doubtful that 50 years of death, that is, if you mark it on a national level, yes, such dates, it raises some doubts, although without objection, this person needs respect, and they need to know a young generation about them. Because I have no doubt that many have heard this name for the first time in the Supreme Council Hall. We will vote in favour of this decree. But, in fact, respect for such dates needs to be considered and not converted into some kind of propaganda, as some decisions do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u176	Question completed. I'm voting on a motion for a decree to commemorate the 50th anniversary of Valentin Felixovich's death. Registration number 8476. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:05:46]] For 245 Decision taken. Soon every day we have a holiday in the state. A draft Order on the 320th anniversary of Kalniszewski's birth is under consideration. [[Registration number 8478]] There's an offer: a reduced procedure. Please Be Determined [[13:06:26]] For 190 Copy that. Please, Peter Andrievich Yushchenko. Get ready for Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u177	I'm in Kalniszewski. It's a well-known figure, let me put it this way. I will begin with such a vivid enough historical episode. In the wars of 1764. In the 68th and 75th years, the armies of the Black Sea, the seven thousand Cossacks of the Kalniszewski Samarski, are from the Katherinoslav governorate, and the Elisevetgrads have created a feat for the Russian Empire when the Tatars and Turks of the Crimea were removed. Catherine III celebrated the basketball team Zaporozhi Sychi of Peter Kalnishewski with the third order number, the highest order of the Russian Empire, the Order of Andrew the First and the way of the Lieutenant General. At the same time, however, Peter Kalnishewski created a great feat of economic power in Ukraine in part of its farming work, which was created in Slobojanska and in the districts of up to five thousand farming villages. When Catherine learned this, she prepares an edict, publishes a manifest prepared by the Greek Neches, a friend of Kalnishevsky's, the Dark One, called Potomkin, on the elimination of Zaporozhye Sichi, where it was said, "By creating his own breadmaking, he created an area completely independent in the center of our homeland under his own. I'm in charge." And for 25 years his home in Solovec was a humble home. In Solovec, he sat in his cell for 25 years and left at Alexander’s highest command in 1801, but wished to remain there. And in 1803, he died a good and godly death on 31 October. Amen. That's what was written.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u178	Thank you. Yavorowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u179	Dear colleagues! This rostrum obviously also exists in order to convey to our electorate some information to the Ukrainian society. Because of this, I spoke very positively about Luke, since he was little known in Ukraine, so I wanted to get this information out. But, Adam Ivanovich, the committee doesn't think that 50 years from the day of death should be celebrated. Such a great person, we have to pick up everything on his birthday and celebrate the birthday to be held, and there is really going to be a promotion, because there is no counterfeiting as you said. Society, as far as Kalniszewski is concerned, is incredibly interesting, historical, tragic as, by the way, and Ukrainian history is ours, the little boy's dog is out there, the Cossacks are going, he's asking, where are you guys going? He says, but let's go to Sitch, take me. So this boy, in fact, about seven or eight years old, goes to Sietch. A man of high culture, a man of high education, a man of war, literally a genius, who fought during the Russian-Turkish war, who until the last moment held Zaporezka Sich and tried to save her from the destruction of Catherine II, an amazing man. But, but you yourself realize that we are in favor of celebrating every year the memory of Kalnishewsky, who was thrown into Solovka and was actually sitting almost in this cell, almost in a pit, sitting and living for over 100 years. But in all encyclopedias, Soviets, new ones, the book of the Head of the Supreme Council of Lithuania clearly indicates that his year of birth is 690. A national MP, our colleague claims that 91 years, which is why we're bringing this to your attention, if you think so, because once again, I'm in favour of celebrating Kalnishewski, but 690 years, all literally editions say that this date, Peter Andriyovich, tells us that there is something on the stone somewhere.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u180	Thank you, sit down, please. There are those who want to participate, sign up. Yes, Yushchenka. After him is Dry.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u181	91 years is a historical fact -- not only are they chronicles, but they're independent chronicles, and they're on a stone. And now it's installed, which, by the way, was placed under the breast of our colleague from the Party of Regions -- Boguslav Viacheslav, who was loaded in 1691. Respect! He's holy. If we pray for him here, we remember, he prays for us there, then our actions improve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u182	Dry.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u183	Thank you. Dear Peter Andryovich! Your words made it so clear that Boslav Viacheslav Aleksandrovich appeared to the saints. That's right, that's great. Why I took the floor, I want to remind you that in 2004, with the financial support of the Open Shareholders Association of Motor Sic and Moscow, a breast was installed at the site where Kalniszewski was buried. And one more thing. That this is the last basket atom of Zaporozhye Sichi everyone knows. But it's about being a man of extraordinary courage, of willpower, of endurance. I think we should do this, by the way, this is an example that can unite and should unite Ukraine -- this is the example of our courageous fellow countryman who has moved everything. But I want to confirm Peter Andriyovich Yushchenk's words on that stone that was preserved since that date was written in 1691.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u184	Yeah, Kick-Ass one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u185	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich! The MP's "Reforms for the Future" group will have to vote in favour of this decision. But what was I going to say? Indeed, it is such a historical figure that today must be a model for Ukrainian youths. And 25 years behind bars in the Solovek Monastery, and without betraying a single iota of the idea of Ukraine, the idea of the Ukrainian State and the Ukrainian Cossacks, of course, deserves great respect. I just wanted to say that it is possible for the Supreme Council to pay more attention to the fact that the memory of Peter Kalniszewski in the Solovak Islands is still not very much on the part of Ukraine and the Ukrainian State. Because as a student of the historical faculty, we went skiing to Solovkov. And what I'm saying is that the situation was that there was a rock apart, and no one knew where Kalnishewsky's grave was, and no one knew where it was.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u186	Question completed. I'm betting on the vote on the bill of honour, more loyal to the Order marking the 320th anniversary of the birth of Kalniszewski Peter Ivanovich. Registration number 8478. Please vote. [[13:14:56]] For 284 It's been decided. We are considering a draft Decision on the application of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the President of Ukraine for the introduction of the release of the Head of the Security Service of Ukraine. Registration number 7081. There's a proposal for a reduced procedure. Why? First you take the decision and then you invite the ministry. [[13:15:29]] For 202 Decision taken. The subject of the legislative initiative Soboljev Sobolj Vladislavovich, but he is on vacation. He will then report from the Committee of the Scybinetsky Alexander Matviyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u187	Honourable National Deputies, the National Security and Defence Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at its meeting on 6 April, discussed the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the referral of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the President of Ukraine on the application of the release of the Head of the Security Service of Ukraine of Khoroshkowski. The draft decree proposes to endorse the appeal of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the President for the introduction of the application for the release of Horoshkovsky from office as one that has caused harm to the national security of the country by its actions. The reference states that according to the author of the draft decree, Mr. Horoshkovsky’s head of staff is the reason for his dismissal. In the process of discussing the issue, Ukrainian national deputies and committee members noted that according to article 106, paragraph 17, of the Ukrainian Constitution, the President of Ukraine singlely appoints and relieves the Ukrainian Armed Forces and other military formations to which the BSS applies. In view of this, and with a view to taking a decision on the draft decision, the committee adopted a decision: recommending a draft decision to the Supreme Council of Ukraine in plenary and then making a decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u188	Yes, are there speakers? Sign up. Please, Konovaluk Valerius, behind him is School.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u189	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, I think that, in fact, the desire of the opposition on Wednesday to be able to raise the right questions in the agenda, to consider them, is very good. But I am convinced that this should be used for productive work. On those current issues, problems that concern voters today. This is usually the mandate of the President of Ukraine in the corresponding 106th article of the Constitution. Indeed, we feel that a few days ago a new anticorruption legislation came into force. Indeed, there are many questions to improve the activities of the Ukrainian Security Service. But this needs to be decided on a permanent basis, constructively, and with the understanding that the Security Service must be out of politics. Not to politicize this question and to make, you know, certain informational reasons to say something. Please speak after what the opposition is doing today. Unfortunately, she is now fully present at the Cave Court. So I'm convinced that aside from political speculation, there is no reason for this question to support it and to address the President. The President himself will evaluate the actions of the head of the Ukrainian Security Service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u190	School. Behind him is Kamchatny.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u191	Thank you. Dear fellow MPs, distinguished radio and television audiences! You understand perfectly well that this decision is of a very ordinary nature. So we understand what's going on in the country right now. We understand that the Security Service and the Head of the Security Service now perform essentially political functions, essentially political functions. And actually it's necessary to call and talk to him here. And look, one ruling after that is going to be the next, because the Ukrainian Security Service continues to perform clear functions with the destruction of Ukrainian statehood. This is also the London prison, and we're going to talk about it later, criminal cases continue. Clear pressure, monitoring, listening to the activities of all opposition deputies, without exception, is continuing. Here, if anyone, and the Security Service in this regard unites the entire opposition together. Because the way she is treated is clear and clear. And here I am, essentially, calling for a court of opposition, over the leader of the opposition, Yulia Timoshenko, over Lucenko. And all of this, all of this is happening under the tools and with the help of the Security Service. Of course, I would like not only to listen but also to release the head of the Security Service, for he is one of the richest people at the same time, and he manages one of the most popular channels, the most powerful. But before that, I would like to listen. But we know very well that no security chief is coming here, no one else is coming here, no prosecutor is coming here, because today's coalition, today's government, is not going to make its work public. That is why we call on all decent deputies to vote in favour of this decree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u192	He's stoned.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u193	Please give the floor to a colleague of Stoyan Alexander Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u194	Please, Stoyan's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u195	First question, Adam Ivanovich. What may be the vacation for the Sobolev MP during the parliamentary work? Please find out. Now essentially. Of course, when the company was headed by all the famous Turks, it was very comfortable and comfortable. They're not comfortable now, because he's heading Horoshkowski. Why aren't they comfortable? Because he's probably gonna ask them. How this person who has just spoken before, I don't call his last name, along with Arutunov, broke the rib of the Misak Light, injured the kidney, and these people are afraid of responsibility. By the way, this person who was just doing this three times caused an accident. Maybe it's time for the car to hang the sign, "Be careful! S. killed a man." [[I don't know the last name.]] One, the other, the third accident, they just understand that they need a person to do gang action. A heart attack will occur today. What heart attack? Kosov took the stand against the judge and insulted the judge. The judge said to get out of the hall. And they fought again. To what extent will this gang insist on changing power? Lozinski, others say, tell me who your team is, I'll tell you who your commander is. That's the team Timoshenko said was responsible for each one of them. This is the team one, this is the team one, this is the team one. A young man, two years old his judge, Timoshenko’s child, and she treats him with such disrespect. So if this person is high - ranking, who thinks he is a leader of political opposition, he is treated by a judge, an honest man who performs his judicial duties as an example to the citizens. So when questions were asked today about Khoroshkovsky, then the police, and so on, it's nothing more than trying to take away those people who are being held accountable by unscrupulous thugs from BET. We will vote against this decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u196	The discussion is over. On vacation. According to the headship report, Sobolje from May 31 to July 16 is on vacation. Why is it that we have to ask Sobolev? Question completed. I am voting on a motion for an order to refer the Supreme Council to the President of Ukraine for the release of the Head of the Security Service. [[Registration number 7081]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:23:56]] For-19 The decree is rejected. The question is being considered – the draft Ordinance on Hearing the report of the Head of the Security Service of Ukraine, Horoshkovsky, there is a proposal for a reduced procedure. [[Registration number 7135]] Please vote. [[13:24:25]] For 185 Decision taken. Report by School Andriy Vasilovich. Get ready for Scybbian.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u197	Thank you. As for the decision, of course, it was registered. The bill was registered on September 17, 2010. It's been a long time. Because that is when criminal persecution began over the direction of the Lion’s Penitentiary in London. I was never surprised, by the way. Because those who destroyed the Ukrainian statehood, those who destroyed the Ukrainian statesmen, were now torn to power. And of course their main task is to destroy Ukraine, Ukrainian language, Ukrainian statehood, Ukrainian museums. And by doing so, they'll destroy what's burning most of their life -- the London prison. Because this is a negative example for them, they saw wonderfully how their predecessors, who were pressurized, burned, destroyed the Ukrainian state. This, in fact, was the basis for a similar decision. Under no circumstances can it be allowed in Ukraine to persecute museum leaders to persecute museum officials. It's at least messy. But as far as possible, it is a crime against Ukrainian memory, against Ukrainian society. And all that's being taught here, of course, we can talk about when we hear it. We know perfectly well, and I am aware that this hearing is not going to happen. How can you listen to what is displeasing to the superior leadership? How you can raise it here, you know, voice or hand against their most holy is the KGB and the Red Flag, I understand, it can't be like that. And there is also the need for the memory of those who do. Those people, who do all they can to bring the human memory back to life, are drawn to criminal responsibility. And to everyone else who's here, I'm just out. Remember to get the stolen sanatoriums back, and then we'll talk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u198	Yes, Scybinetsky, please, from the committee, Alexander Matviyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u199	Dear National Deputies! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on National Security and Defence at its meeting on 6 April considered the draft Ordinance on Hearing a Report by the Head of the Security Service of Ukraine, Horoshkovsky, on the Persecution and Aggression of the Security Service against Ukrainian Historians of the National Museum of Monuments of Victims of the Occupational Regimes of the London Prison. In the process of discussing this issue, the Ukrainian National Deputies noted that the time frame provided for in the draft Decision had coincided and, therefore, with the aim of adopting the relevant decision on the draft Order, the Committee approved recommending that the Supreme Council of Ukraine consider the proposed draft Order at the plenary session. Taking advantage of the possibility, dear Adam Ivanovich, I would like to say a few words from myself. Ladies and gentlemen, such questions as hearing the Head of the Security Service, whether there will be Mr. Khoroshkovsky or anyone else, will continue to arise, because today this organization, the Ukrainian Security Service, is completely closed to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, for us with you. Today, national MPs do not participate in the meetings of the Ukrainian Security Service College. Today it is very difficult to arrange for the Head of the Security Service to come to the meeting of the committee, for two months now Mr. Horoshkovsky will never reach our committee on Abu Sisi, a Palestinian who was kidnapped by Israeli intelligence. And that's why I think we should think with you about not rejecting laws that improve parliamentary control of the Ukrainian Security Service. Unfortunately, I did not accept this bill and rejected it most of the time. I think we need to think carefully about the active parliamentary control of the Ukrainian Security Service. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u200	Thank you. Please sign up if you want. Please, Chechetov. After him is Pavlovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u201	Please pass the word to Jaroslav Sukh.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u202	Jaroslav Suhi, please. Microphone. Alexander Stoyan, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u203	Respectful colleagues are certainly required to protect people if there is a violation of the law, for one law is for all. But I want to tell a colleague who reported, you know, he doesn't have the moral right to report such a law on the removal of Horoshkovsky or the invocation of responsibility. The man who committed the crime and.. He killed people from his car accident, a man who had twice broken the law, a man who, literally, today beat a woman on Monday, an innocent woman named Mishalov, under a parliamentary mandate. And by the way, when he did the third time an accident didn't happen, he doesn't have the right to demand someone's resignation. But that's not what I'm talking about. I'm talking about something We did not get to power, Your Honor. In 2004-2005, you cheated on millions of people and came to power, you had full authority: both your President and your Prime Minister and the Supreme Council. How did you take advantage of this authority in the name of the people? Not at all. You have derelicted this authority, and you have found the relationship as spiders in a bank, and you have overwhelmed one another. And that's why people appreciated you in 2007 when they supported our opposition political party, not the coalition, but the Party of Regions, which spoke honestly to the people, how it would work, what it would do for people. Therefore, it was the people who correctly assessed our leader, Yanukovic, who elected him president with a big break from Timoshenko. That's why we have full rights today and responsibility for what's happening in the state, we understand that there are many problems, but not you judge, Your Honor, you've been in power, and today you're in opposition. You can't even work together in opposition. Look at the way you vote, you're introducing a bill from "Our Ukraine" and 16-20 people on the screen. You're not in the hall at all, look. Let's see. Where are they? Where are they now under the Cave Court? So who's paying them? Let Timoshenko pay. Let's not give them a salary. There's an MP's job in Parliament. So, of course, we're not voting for yours.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u204	Yes, Andrew Pavlovski, the "BUT" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u205	Well, the previous author would be asked to return the sanatorium first, and there's a criminal case that I think is now being investigated by the D.A.'s office. On the other hand, please pass the word to Yuri Prokopchuku.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u206	I'm asking you, Andrew, to speak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u207	What is not to pass on the word? I was going to say that the faction of the "Timoshenko Block" is "The Fatherland" supports the decree. Because it is a common practice when the Chief of Staff of the Horoshkovsky is to report to Parliament, to be under parliamentary control, not to cover one pervasive party and the personal environment of the President, but to ensure legality, not to investigate only its own commercial interests. We know that Mr. Horoshkovsky is a well-known representative of the great capital, has his interests in the television channel and the Inter, and the Rosukrenergo, and so on. And I would like to point out that there are, in fact, the facts of the persecution of scientists, historians, and those from the Museum of the Prison of London, and others. And I think that in a civilized society, a democratic society would have been evaluated long ago. And it's not normal for a big capitalist to lead the service. In what European country do billionaires lead special services? It's supposed to be a professional person instead of turning the Security Service into its own security firm of its own. And I would also like to say that let's stick to some kind of human ethical standard. I'm going to the previous speaker from the Party of Regions, because if he was crystal clear himself, he could throw something at someone, but the biography itself would. Remember how you are number two.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u208	Yes, Jaroslav Kenzior, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u209	Jaroslav Kenzior, MP for Ukraine! Dear colleagues, I know very well how the Levian’s history of the London prison is called. I know this museum, which is organized in the premises of this former NKVDK. I know the collective of this museum and its. The one that is headed by Ruslan Zabely. What happened recently when Ruslan Zabilij here, at the Kiev station, was detained by Ukrainian security officials, and he had all the materials, the scientific materials that the team collected and, with the desire to provide the public with all this information about specific people who were destroyed by the checkers in. By 1941, from 1939 to 1941, and after the Soviet authorities had returned to Lviv. Of course, if there is a Presidential Decree on the opening of all the archives of the KGB of the former and present day, the Security Service removes and detains those scientists, historians who are pursuing a search in this direction, so to speak, step by step, to show from whom, as it were, the Soviet authorities of the Western Ukraine have released, destroying in those dungeons, particularly in the prison of Nalonsky, the prison of Bregetka, the prison of Zamarstin and we know that this criminal CNB was destroyed by millions of people and when the Security Service.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u210	Thank you. Thank you. [[B in m in s a l in]] One minute, Chernobyl, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u211	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues of the Ukrainian National Deputies! On this issue, because it is morally and politically, not normative, we have free voting in the group, but I want to express my position. The point is that the Ukrainian Security Service and the head of the Ukrainian Security Service should be divided into two parts. What is strictly in line with the Ukrainian Security Service Act, and what constitutes a state secret, really has to be considered in a special way: that the members of the committee should be allowed under special leave, a non-disclosure notice and so on. Political action, political acts or things that directly conflict with the laws of Ukraine and that cannot, in principle, contain state secrets, must be publicly explained and heard in the legislative body. So things like the events around the London prison, about the Stalinism research and the terrible crimes of the Stalinese period, things like the direct violation of the Abu Sisi Palestinian Law and so on, should be heard in the Supreme Council. So I propose to support this decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u212	No, the unforeseeable closing word. Ladies and gentlemen, the committee invites the Supreme Council of Ukraine to consider the draft Decree because it has not decided on its decision. So I'm voting on a regulatory proposal for the adoption of the Supreme Council of Ukraine draft regulation, registration number 7135 as a regulation. Please identify yourself. [[13:37:48]] For-38 The decision was not adopted, so the decision was rejected. Ladies and gentlemen, we need to consider a package of bills for their inclusion in the agenda. There is such a request, fellow honourable Members, that we, with regard to those draft laws that the MPs insist on going through a brief procedure of discussion for inclusion in the agenda, we will discuss them, if there is no objection, we simply put the vote on inclusion in the agenda. Is there no objection? A draft decree on the 60th anniversary of the Ukrainian Peace Council is being announced for inclusion in the agenda. Registration number 8604. I'm voting on the inclusion of the draft ruling in the agenda. I've just been given, I've come and given this determination. What were they looking at? [[13:38:54]] For 245 It's on. Order's on. Please give me the help of the secretariat. Give me some help. I'll take care of it. Dear colleagues! It is now proposed to consider the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine. [[on improving legal regulation, ensuring the realization of housing rights of residents]] Registration number 8678. Is there no objection to the vote? I'm voting on the motion to include this issue in the agenda, please vote. [[13:39:47]] For 269 Decision taken. There is now a bill of the Law on the Moratorium for raising prices and tariffs for residential services for the population. Registration number 8518. Shall we discuss this? Just a minute. Dear colleagues! There is no author, the author is the National Deputy of the Royal. So there is nothing to discuss. Just a minute. So let's think about it this way, if there's an author, we're going to talk if we don't, we're not going to talk about it. Just a minute. I'm voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the daily draft of the Law on the Moratorium on raising prices and tariffs for residential services for the population. [[Registration number 8518]] Please vote. [[13:40:45.]] For-54 The proposal for inclusion in the agenda of the bill is not supported. The factions, please. Region Party – 1, "BUT – Fatherland" – 14, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 6, Communists – 25, "Reforms for the Future" – 2, "The People's Party – 0, non-fractional – 6. Dear colleagues! Your consideration is proposed for the inclusion in the agenda of the Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts in order to prevent an increase in Ukraine's public debt. [[Registration number 8304]] The rapporteur is the national deputy of Ukraine, Oleg Lazko. The correspondent is the head of the Committee on Budget Affairs, Valérie Baranov.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u213	Dear fellow citizens! To date, Ukraine’s growing state debt has become a serious threat to its economic security and national sovereignty. The International Analytical Agencies have already included Ukraine in the list of countries at risk of government default. In the first quarter of this year, debt repayment and service costs amounted to 20 billion dollars. Compared to the corresponding period last year, they've grown by 14 billion and become or not the biggest expense piece. In the first quarter of 2011, all budget expenditures amounted to 66 billion dollars — 1 out of every 4th of the budget allocations went to bail out the debt hole. The 12 billion, the 13 billion grant to the Pension Fund, the 11 billion, health 9 billion, capital investment of only 2 billion, eight times less than the cost of service and public debt repayment. In keeping with current trends, the state will be unable to handle external debts for several years, or it will not be able to maintain education, health care, and pensions. There is already one reason enough to understand the need for the adoption of the proposed standard in my bill, the limit of the total amount of debt to reduce to 50 percent of GDP, while banning the use of external loans for current government expenditures. The country's experience is a vivid demonstration of direct dependence, the more external debt is the worse economic indicators. According to an analysis of the Court of Auditors, in 2011, the economy did not show the raise that our government claims, the tax debt in comparison to the April 1st of last year increased by 5 billion dollars, more than two thirds of the total amount of tax debt is debt, the economic activity of enterprises. There has been an increase in debt on salary payments, up to 1.5 billion dollars. In this regard, I propose to support my bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u214	Thank you. Valerius Baranov, please, from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u215	Deputies! The committee considered draft Law 8304, author of which Lazko Oleg, at its meeting yesterday and decided to reject it. And I suggest you support our committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u216	Ladies and gentlemen, if you need to exchange your thoughts, please sign up. Names of the national deputies. Yuri Carmazin. I'm sorry, National Deputy Kolocei, Party of Regions and Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u217	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Please pass the word to my friend Konovaluk Valerius Illich. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u218	Valerius Konovaluk, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u219	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! You know, cynicism and demagogism have no limits at all. I want to remind you that in 2004 the government debt amounted to 16 billion dollars. In 2008, it was already $88 billion, or 5 years of orange power, and the state received $100 billion in debt. You know, the same shame that we don't remember in 2008, when the bracelet was reduced to eight dollars per dollar, from five to 60 percent. Seventy-four billion dollars lost our citizens. You've left a country with huge debts. And now you have a conscience to stand on the stand and say something? You know, I'm surprised when the debt in the banking system now amounts to 200 billion dollars of unreturned loans. These loans were taken by the authority you represented, including the budget of the Chernigian region, which was given to you by Prime Minister Timoshenko. When you kissed her then, and now you're wearing her. So let's put it this way: please answer for what you've been doing, not for what kind of country we're trying to put on a normal path of development. So I am convinced that the issue of sovereign debt is a matter of real economic development and national security. But when you took those loans, you didn't understand. Just the wealth you've seen every day. So I'm convinced that the country's financial system is getting stronger today. And I'm convinced that the following year, when the budget deficit is reduced, when we get more opportunities for economic growth to serve external debt, it will allow and finance those social programs that today, by the way, the same Chernigs.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u220	Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u221	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to ask you not to finally turn the Supreme Council into a circus. Because it reminds me of voting when there's a cross where there's a vote and there's no cross. And then the assistant trainer's hand gives the command anyway, you're already turning everything into a beast. Please don't do this. Let's think about it. The law that is proposed is a serious reason to reflect on the threatening state debt situation. All the prime ministers put their hands there. And in the last six years, today's President has been Prime Minister for two years, if you remember, a good memory. And by other means, the prime ministers, including our Ukraine, were also prime ministers. And from BUTU, there were prime ministers, and they all joined that government debt. But we have to get out of the situation now, today. It seems to me that the path that is proposed, namely, to make changes to the National Internal Debt Act of Ukraine, is a legislative way. Change where to assume that the amount of the principal amount of government debt cannot exceed 50 per cent of the actual annual gross domestic product of Ukraine, and that the amount of its servicing and repayment should not exceed 25 per cent of the tax revenue of the state budget, is absolutely correct. Show me another country that would stop paying for Chernobyl at the same time, for children of war, for military veterans, for law enforcement agencies, for all other categories of people, and for the same.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u222	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u223	And at the same time, which would spend exclusively from the State budget on the unscheduled basis of spending money on the Euro in this size. But they're gone. That's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u224	Thank you. Andrey Pavlovsky, one minute from the faction, has the right to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u225	Dearly beloved, the faction "Brother's Mother" supports the bill. Because it is indeed an up - to - date debt, and the government debt should be limited as much as possible. Because, according to official figures for 2010, the stock market increased by one and a half times compared to 2009 and made up $54.3 billion, accounting for about 42 percent of gross domestic product. For comparison, there were 30 percent in 2009. So already the new government of Yanukovich has increased the government debt, I emphasize, one and a half times. And that's why the Supreme Council has to control this national security issue. And I'd like to point out that also the negative external trade surplus has increased by 62 percent, now it's $9.3 billion. So for such decrees, we must vote for such laws if we are to take state action.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u226	Thank you. Dear colleagues, have all the factions spoken? No, it's not. The stake came from you. The wheel was on. Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? Oh, Taras Cranville, please. And we continue the morning session by 14 o'clock in the morning for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u227	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished fellow national MPs! You know, in all the discussion, there was one good right phrase to think about, to draw conclusions. But we need to think in such a way that we do not make a mockery of Parliament. When a political declaration is made, it is good. But the political declaration is called the law, which is the humiliation of Parliament. There's a problem. The problem is created by all governments. I totally agree here. But I would very much like some of our deputies, because there's nothing to talk about the author here, it's funny, but some of our deputies are telling us how to follow the procedure, how to enhance the role of parliament so that it doesn't support the dream of absolute. As a declaration, this law must have happened. But as a bill, we can't vote because we're just humiliating ourselves.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u228	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the daily draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts in order to prevent an increase in Ukraine's public debt. [[13:52:46]] For-25 The decision is not taken. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the daily draft Act amending article 4 of the Ukrainian Law on Collection and Accounting for a single contribution to the general public social insurance policy on the release of pensioners and persons with disabilities from the payment of a single contribution. The author is Natalia Kraljevska. Please determine by vote. I put it to a vote because the author is not there, so make your decision. [[13:53:26]] For-41 The decision is not taken. Offer rejected. Dear National Deputies! A proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of a daily draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation (to ensure proper State control (supervisory) of food products) is under consideration. The rapporteur is Ukrainian national deputy Andrew Davidenko. And from the committee of Tetjan Baheev. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u229	In December, the Supreme Council of Ukraine passed laws on "State Market Surveillance and Control of Non-Food Production" and on "General Security of Non-Food Products". With these laws effective on July 5, 2011, i.e. yesterday, the act of the Cabinet of Ministers decree on State supervision of compliance with standards, norms and rules and responsibility for their violations was repealed. According to which government oversight of the quality and safety of food products was carried out for manufacturers and wholesale suppliers. In place of the requirements of the decree, there is nothing identical about the law in force. Supervisory health and veterinary services do not check the food products for such indicators and characteristics as the authenticity and match the name of the food ingredient. For example, whether it's topping oil or in front. Whether it's a sausage or a sausage product. And the mass of the net food and all that. This bill removes the gap in legislation that has been created. The Ukrainian Act on the Safety and Quality of Food is not defined and the powers of the authorities are not regulated and there is no regulation on the allocation of supervisory functions in the field of food production between the health services, the veterinary service and the central executive authority responsible for technical regulation and consumer policy. Today it is the Mineconomy, in accordance with the President's April decree. So we're proposing changes to the law. Our bill puts Ukraine's Safety and Quality of Food Act in line with Ukraine's Standardization Act, the Standards, Technical Rules and Conformity Assessment Procedures, and the Agreement on Technical Barriers to Trade and the Agreement on Sanitary and Phytosanitary Measures of the World Trade Organization. The findings of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration express a number of non-specific comments that can be taken into account in furthering the second reading. At the same time, the functions of the supervisory authorities in the bill will be brought into line with the President’s decrees.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u230	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u231	on the optimization of the system of central executive bodies. In case of non-admission of the bill, you and I have been giving all the dishonest manufacturers and criminals the right to deceive the consumer, the people of Ukraine, without penalty.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u232	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u233	That's why I'm asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u234	Thank you. We're putting it in the agenda, but we're not really looking at it yet. So let's include-- let's think about it essentially then. Aunty Bachchev is from the committee. I can't see. Who wants to make this point? None. I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the daily draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine (for ensuring proper State control of food products) (registration number 8459). Please vote. [[13:57:14]] For-48 The decision is not taken, the project is not included in the agenda. Dear colleagues, I'm announcing a proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the daily project of the 100th anniversary of the birth of Klim Savure. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Vasil Drevlány, will report, and Vladimir Yavorowski will speak from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u235	Dear colleagues, the draft decree is being prepared in view of the fact that on November 4, 2011, 100 years have passed since the birth of the famous son of the Ukrainian nation, a prominent fighter for Ukraine’s independence, the leading leader of the Organization of Ukrainian Nationalists, the first commander of the Ukrainian rebel army, the chief commander of the UPA, Colonel Klim Saurus. [[North]] The purpose of the decision is to ensure proper organisational and legal conditions for the observance of the Jubilee of Klima Savura at the national level, taking into account his significant personal contribution to the struggle for the Ukrainian independent assembly state. Dmitry Klyachivsky was born on November 4, 1911, in the city of Zbara, Ternopilschi. [[Klim Sauvur]] During his youth, he joined the UN and since then spent his life in a revolutionary struggle. Since the fall of the 39th year after the arrival of Bolsheviks, it's going to be a legal state of struggle. Under the leadership of Klima Savura, partisan departments are being organized to protect the Ukrainian population from German invaders. On October 14, 42, they formed the Ukrainian rebel army, led by Klim Savore. Under his leadership, the first divisions of the UPA were formed in the fight against the Germans and the Bolsheviks. At the beginning of the 42nd year, Klim Savure is the leader of the UN in north-western Ukrainian lands. It plays an important role in the organization of the first UPA departments and the construction of its structure on Volin and Volinski Polissa. Throughout this period, Klim Savor was until his heroic death the chief commander of the U.P.A. North. On September 4, 43, Klim Savur issued an order to the UPA commanders and to the commanders of self-defence on the tactics of fighting the Germans and defending the population and the area against the enemy's attack. On February 1st, 45th, Klim Saur was killed in the village of Sus, in the province of Plainland, during the special operation of the NCS. Please support the data.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u236	Thank you. Vladimir Yavorowski, head of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality Please conclude the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u237	Dear colleagues, the author of the bill has written a biography of this legendary man quite accurately and meticulously. The committee, of course, supports such a celebration, although we understand very well that the bill will not pass, I have no doubt about it, so I will tell you, having two minutes to do something else. We have 20 years with you, soon to celebrate, the restored Ukrainian state. Because of that logic, it would seem very normal. Today this state, which exists, which is restored, which is decorative, but is still independent, it should very clearly indicate its ideology and mark all those who worked for this independence. Our history is complex and twisted. It was copied by foreigners, copied by the Yanks, who wanted to. Today, she wants to be rewritten by the Smoker there and so forth. It's perfectly understandable. But, well, today, don't celebrate those who shed blood, those who put their heads on for independence. Well, it's the cynicism of the highest brand there is. Wooden and told you about Saurus’s biography. A wonderful man, unique. One of the organizers of the Ukrainian rebel army, which fought for independence, fought for many years. And there were separate troops fighting not so many against the colossal NKVD army, and they lasted until about the 1940s, even in the 1950s. They were the last ones to stand for independence. Why do we resist and constantly listen to stories about one another, the other, the third, the fourth? Because of this, I think it would be very normal to celebrate this man's anniversary today. I understand that it may be more popular in Western Ukraine, to some extent in Central Ukraine, maybe less in Eastern Ukraine. So, let's say we didn't celebrate his Jubilee and explain to people who he was, the brave man that the Germans put in prison when there was an occupation, they put NKVDs in prison when there was one.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u238	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u239	After 1939. Because of that, please, it's such a luxuries. Let's see how you vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u240	Thank you. Dear colleagues, can we put this to a vote? Discussion? Please sign up. Well, they're willing to participate in the discussion. Please sign up. Names, please. Paul Mokchan, the MP's "Reforms for the Future" group.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u241	Volodymyr Mikhailovich! It was understandable that we should not be prejudiced and overcome all the stereotypes that were formed in the previous decades. You don't have to abdicate those who already know. We don't know our own history, we don't know our own heroes. Unfortunately, it's all about the merits that, at the expense of that previous authority that has taken over all our names, has rewritten our history, and today these trends continue, unfortunately. And as a historian, Vladimir Mikhailovich, you are well aware that the heroes of Ukraine, and he is part of that line, need some support, and overcome the inertia that is still in our hands for a long time. And so I would ask everyone who respects the history of Ukraine, who properly belongs and joins the Ukrainian community to support this bill. Thank you. This is a determination, more loyal.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u242	Vladimir Karpuk, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u243	Volodymr Karpuk, "Our Ukraine". Dmitry Klykawiski is, indeed, a patriot hero, an outstanding soldier, who is a skilled organizer, and his name is well known in Volina. [[Klim Sauvur]] I'm going to say that by the late 1990s, there was a street named Dmitr Klyachivski in Lutsk. [[Sauvura Air-Condition]] And even then, in Volina, it was no surprise. This is indeed a hero known to people who really fought for Ukraine’s independence. And such heroes should be brought up by our generation. Not on those imaginary heroes. Because when we take many of the heroes that we were raised to be, when we actually have a scrupulous study, we see these myths created by Soviet ideology. So our faction will support this at the state level.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u244	Yes, Yuri Baldirev, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u245	Once again, we see that the fascists and their followers have not yet calmed down and continue to impose their heroes on us, we continue to impose our ideology. I think we should respond adequately. We must adopt, as in the Federal Republic of Germany, a law prohibiting the propaganda of fascists and fascists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u246	Dear colleagues, I'm addressing the speaker just now. Dear colleagues, there are no fascists and their servants in the session room. It's purely national. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm asking you again. Here is exclusively the national deputies of Ukraine, each of whom is entitled to his or her point of view. Let's make arguments, not labels. We learned how to hang labels. I say again, honourable national MPs, now let's move on to making a decision. There is a vote on the proposal for inclusion in the agenda of the daily draft Decision marking the century from the birth of Klim Savure. [[Registration number 8378]] [[14:06:17]] For-44 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, this is a draft decree to mark the non-state level of the 555th anniversary of the establishment of the city of Borschev of Ternopil district, which is a very historic place. 8608 project. [[B in m in s a l in]] Why don't you go ahead? [[B in m in s a l in]] Is there a need to report? Are you going to report? Dear colleagues, it's about putting this issue in the agenda. Please vote. With regard to the inclusion of the matter in the agenda, please vote. [[14:07:17]] For 230 Questions are included in the agenda. Thank you. Let's do it again. Dear colleagues, I continued my morning session for 14 hours for 15 minutes. There's eight minutes left. There is a proposal to consider another draft of the Order, marking the 360th anniversary of the birth of Saint John Maximovich, the Metropolitan of Tobolski and all Siberia. Do you understand what the scales are? 8644. I'm asking you, Peter Andryovich, quickly, and we'll vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u247	I'm short. Ivan Maksimović, at the recommendation of Lazar Baranovitch, graduated from the Kyiv-Mogilian Academy and became governor of the Council of Jelek, Archbishop of Chernigovsky and Novgorod-Sversky. In 812 he was directed by Peter I to Tobolsk, where he headed the metropolis. He carried on a great educational work, missionary work, caring for the poor, building cathedrals from Tobolsk to Tumen. He traditionally introduced Philofia Lishtinsky’s Ukrainian culture, beginning with poetry, rhetoric, and painting, and invited artists who wrote temples and carried the culture of secular and spiritual nations outside of Christian Siberia. Here's your respect. Canonized by the Council of Moscow in 1916
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u248	Vladimir Yavorowski, head of the committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u249	Honourable Parliamentarians of Ukraine! The author of the bill quite pedanticly gave you a biography of this clergyman, really very famous and very high-profile, I'm not going to talk about it. The committee considered the bill, and we came to the conclusion that the author should not be offended. Of course, it is a Ukrainian born in Ukraine. It's incredibly interesting and complicated. It was such a rebellious priest, so I would say, who allowed himself, something sometimes more that priests would afford. But we are convinced of that wonderfully, although I am a representative of the opposition, but I want to make it clear that we should normally think about what the budget will cost for the celebration of one date or another. That's why we think, despite the fact that this is really going to be unique and all, but it could be celebrated at the church level, at the clergy level, at the level, but it's our opinion, but it's our opinion to decide the final fate of this bill, to decide for you people's deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u250	Dear colleagues! Is there a need to discuss this? Yes, please sign in. Names, please. Radovec, please, the MP's "Reforms for the Future."
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u251	Please pass the word to Hashuk Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u252	Peter Gashuk, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u253	Dear colleagues! The MP's "Reforms for the Future" propose to support the draft Decision on the 360th anniversary of the birth of Saint John Maximovich, the Metropolitan of Tobolski and all Siberia, thus respecting the memory of this remarkable personality in the history of our country and Orthodoxy. The life and activities of Ivan Maksimovich are directly related to Kiev, and it was in Kiev that he completed his studies in 1673 at the Kiev-Mogilian Academy, and then he was teaching pythetics, rhetoric, Latin. In 1676, he cut himself with a monk. John Maximovich made a major contribution to the development of education, and in 1700 he opened a college in Chernig, like the Kiev-Magilian Academy, where he was the first teacher. Theological tracts he wrote are part of the treasury of theology and philosophy of our native Orthodox culture. John Maximovich, also known as the Metropolitan of Tobolski and Siberian, is an educator and missionary in Siberia. I therefore propose to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u254	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u255	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! First of all, I would like to thank Petra Andrievich Yashchenka for the projects he has put in place today. Because today much of the people simply did not know these historical facts, including the fact that Siberia was being built in both a physical and a spiritual sense by Ukrainians. And in 1712, when Maximovich left Ukraine, he carried the knowledge he had brought to Chernig College, and he also celebrated the Kiev-Mogilian Academy, which he had completed when there were not many other institutions and universities that now teach us how to love our country. And he is buried today in the city of Tobolsk, in the distant city of Tobolsk, which is not part of the territory of Ukraine, but we must honor our outstanding Ukrainians. Because he cared for the poor, because he raised the morale of the clergy, because he brought to Siberia the Ukrainian traditions that are now being forgotten in Russia. And we agreed before the president, the prime minister of today's Russia, said, "We did it without Ukraine, and we did it.".. Those who today try to get baptized from the role of Ukraine are the ones who do bad things. And we have to show that Ukraine respects its heroes, worships them, all the more so that it is recognized as saints before the October coup. I offer to support, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u256	Honorable National MPs. Please, Mikhaylo Chechtov, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u257	Dear colleagues, you know, it is very symbolic that today we have confirmed the great people. You know, 320 years since Kalnyszewski Peter was born. Who was that? Some 350 years ago, he and the Russian side were bleeding for their homeland. Thus today's decision symbolized the inviolable friendship of two brotherly peoples, Russian and Ukrainian. Those who did not fight in one battle but fought many battles to protect their homeland and shed blood together. Now let's keep looking. We are now 360 years old from the date of the birth of John Maximovich, the Metropolitan of the Russian city of Tobolski and all Siberia. This suggests that these great people at the time realized that only together could they raise and develop the Kiev Russia, where the Russian and Ukrainian people would live as brothers. I therefore propose to support this decree as a symbol of the inviolable friendship between the brotherly Russian and Ukrainian people, who are forever. I suggest we vote, make an outcry.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-06-m0.u258	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the day's draft a decree marking the 360th anniversary of the birth of Saint John Maximovich, the Metropolitan of Tobolski and all Siberia. [[Registration number 8644]] [[14:16:20]] For 234 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, on this optimistic note, I declare the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. Since 4:00, the committee has been working. Tomorrow we'll continue our work at 10 p.m. in plenary mode. Thank you.
