ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, I ask you to take up your jobs so that we can continue our work and prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[16:01:00]] It was registered in the 386 people’s deputies’ session hall, with cards, of course. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Dear colleagues, we agreed with you both on the Conciliation Council this morning that those bills that we put into the agenda at the morning session, and they are prepared by the committees, we will consider them, and then we will continue to decide on those bills that we have on schedule. () [[B in m in s a l in]] Mikola Volodymyrovich is objective and claims to have been such a conversation. Dear National MPs, the draft Law on the Specificities of State Oversight in the Field of Economic Activity for Business Persons and Legal Persons, which apply a simplified system of taxation, accounting and reporting, is under consideration. There is a proposal to consider the question, from the author of the bill, by a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[16:02:17]] For 199 Decision taken. The reporter is Yuri Romanovich Miroshnichenko. Correspondent is Head of the Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship, Natalia Kraljevska, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u2	Dear voters, dear colleagues! Yuri Miroshnichenko, faction of the Party of the Regions. It is a great pleasure for me to go to this rostrum right now and report on an anticipated, long - awaited bill that deals with the reduction of administrative pressure on operators working for a simplified tax system. You know, honourable colleagues, that under the political will of the President of Ukraine, a moratorium was introduced on the testing of operators, individuals and individuals working under the simplified system by 1 January 2011 as part of the package of measures that improve both the investment climate and the conduct of business in our country. This moratorium has shown that such an action has a tremendously positive impact on the fight against corruption, and you know that inspection agencies have very often abused this tool and engaged in bribery, and it stimulates economic activity. This law, in fact, continues with the processing and taking into account of experience, and enables all operators working under a simplified system to get rid of excessive government unwarranted control. Along with the necessary areas of control, they are preserved. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u3	Thank you, Yuri Romanovich, you too. From the committee, please report. Please sign up for this statement. Please have the names of the people's deputies on the board. Xenia Leapina. I'm not going to run after the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u4	Thank you, Your Honor. Lapina, Party for Ukraine! Dear colleagues, this bill is really, really useful. I rarely support drafts with initiatives like opponents, but in this case, I think it's a useful initiative. First of all, it's reducing the tension in the business environment, especially in small businesses. And secondly, it allows the tax service, first of all, to focus on those subjects that need to be controlled, that is, to put into practice the real principle of risk management. Because, I'm sorry, what's the risk to the country's budget system of being a market bench or some shit in the streets of town? So in fact, we think that this bill needs to be supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u5	Yes, dear colleagues, are there any other thoughts? Well, yes, please. Microphone of the Royal Natalia.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u6	Dear colleagues! This bill by name is certainly excellent, but the problem is that, according to its contents, it only adds further conflicts to the legislation. Therefore, the proposal of both the parliamentary committee of the profile and my personal: this bill does not create another superstructure and mimic the improvement of the business climate in the country. And if there is a political will, indeed, to resolve this issue, then write a serious, strong bill that will today free small and medium-sized businesses from the scourge that has been going on for six months in the country and allow people to work freely and develop. We will certainly support such an idea and motivation, but to do so, we must send the bill to finalize, develop and make a serious, basic document that protects the rights of both consumers and, of course, small and medium-sized businesses, and a serious core document can already be adopted in both first and second readings. Regrettably, however, there will be no system document on the basis of a draft bill without 116 articles of the Rules. And if we take that as a basis, we'll do another simulation, another upgrade, but we can't solve the global problem. Therefore, the proposal is to send for further refinement. By the end of the week, even by Thursday, we will be preparing for the authorship of Yuri Miroshnichenko and helping him to complete this bill in a comprehensive manner, and we may be able to adopt a system-wide basic bill, which will not be imitation, but will be the solution to the problem created today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u7	Thank you, too. I am voting on the first proposal called for by the Rules to be put to the vote, on the adoption of the draft Law on the Specificities of State Oversight, on the Control in the Field of Economic Activities for Business Persons and Legal Persons who apply the simplified system of taxation, accounting and reporting. [[Registration number 8610]] Please vote. [[16:08:44]] For 259. Decision taken. A draft decree marking the 70th anniversary of Baba Jar's tragedy is being announced. Well, I propose the word right away, as the committee suggests, we don't use "dedication" but "honor." Dear colleagues, the offer to consider this issue in a simplified manner. Please vote. Yes, please, Victoria Alexandrovna Demyanchuk is the author. [[16:09:19]] For 214 Decision taken. Reporter - Demyanchuk Victoria Alexandrovna, co-rapporteur - Head of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality, Vladimir Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u8	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, you have a proposal for a draft decree to commemorate the 70th anniversary of the tragedy of Baba Jar. Registration number 8605. In September 2011, there were 70 years of the tragedy of Babin Yar, which during the German occupation of Kiev became the site of mass executions and burials, a huge brotherly grave for prisoners of war, Soviet guerrillas and underworlders, Communists and communists, and ordinary residents of the city. For two years hundreds of thousands of Jews, Ukrainians, Russians, and people of other nationalities were shot, thrown into the yoke and buried in the ground, many of them alive. Sadly, we do not know these people by name, but blood is cooled in the veins when we mention these terrible events. The cruelty of the Third Reich Nazis and their U.N.A. manuals is evidenced by the archival materials that among the 1,500 cartels in Baba Jar were 1,200 U.N.P.P.P. police and only 300 Germans, demonstrating the unprecedented facts of atrocities and violence that have taken place under the slogans of the human hateful racial theory. Hitler’s regime, contrary to common sense, public morals, the common values of entire nations, declared them unfulfilled and sentenced them to death simply because they were not Germans. Regrettably, the terrible ideology of fascism has proved to be alive, and today it manifests itself in many countries, including Ukraine. Law-abiding parties and public organizations of nationalism, some media outlets, individual government officials openly engage in illegal nationalist propaganda and promote this ideology among people, especially among young people. If we do not take measures against national fascism that are provided for by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, it will be late tomorrow. The peoples of the world remember that Babin Jar is a tragic and sacred place not only for Ukraine but also for the entire civilization. The desire to rewrite history, to change the months of heroes who gave their lives to fight fascists against the pitiful collaborators who worked with the Nazis, is a policy that leads to another tragedy. In Baba’s Yar, other areas of Ukraine, which have been destroyed throughout Europe, hundreds of thousands have been destroyed by millions of people of different nationalities.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u9	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u10	They should not let this inhuman horror happen again. The adoption of this decree will allow proper respect for the memory of the dead in Baba Jara, contribute to the upbringing of future generations of humanity and humanistic values, because the tragedy of Baba Jar is not only our common pain, but also our general warning to the entire world community: from nationalism to Nazism is one step. National Fascism in Ukraine will not pass!
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u11	Thank you. Vladimir Alexandrovich Yavorowski, head of the committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u12	Good afternoon, Ukraine! Dear colleagues, Babin Jar doesn't need any commercials today, he doesn't need any long explanations, because whatever it is, after years of silence, Babin Jar knows about today, in fact, the whole world. This is a horrendous, terrible tragedy that unfolded in Kiev at the end of September, that is, at the very beginning of the war, it was silent because there was such a tendency to talk about what the Jews had gathered and walked like sheep voluntarily, almost going to this terrible shooting. Today, this topic is almost covered in Kuznietsev's work, an outstanding Russian proseic who wrote a documentary, and I just want to correct my colleague, Mrs. Victoria's committee secretary, she said that there were UPA soldiers in the police. Ms. Victoria, the Ukrainian rebel army was created much later than in 1941, and there is no need for confusion. It's about what's buried there, we're grateful, by the way, to the Jewish people and to the Jewish nation, I want to say from this rostrum that thanks to them, in fact, today, so scattered around the world, Babin Yar, but we have to say today that the Gypsies were shot, the Karaites were shot, the Ukrainians were shot, 651 members of the organization of Ukrainian nationalists were shot, and they were buried where the Jews were. Because there is no monopoly here, Babin Yar and Baba Jar's tragedy cannot be. I'm just going to give you one documentary testimony when the fascists were rotting two girls and they were falling, and they literally started licking them, kissing them on their boots, so that they could do with them that they didn't want to get shot, and that's the detail: the girls were wearing the same clothes, and when they saw that they were already wearing that drill, they said, we're detdoms, we don't know what nationality we're being, we're not Jewish, we're being carried into the children's house by little ones, and we don't know what nationality we are, whether we're Jewish or we're not Jewish. Because of this, the Committee on Culture and Spirituality.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u13	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u14	Supports this initiative, I think the government should take due note.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u15	Respect.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u16	Honoring the victims, first of all, honoring the victims. And, of course, we have to, I've seen projects of monuments, memorials in America, I think that's all we need to do, because it's a general tragedy of Ukrainians in the political sense of that word, not in the ethnic sense, but in the political sense. The committee supports and asks you, I don't know who can vote against it?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u17	Dear National Deputies! Please sign up for a discussion. Please state the names of the national MPs. Ruslan Knazevitch, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u18	I'm asking Zebrovsky to give the word. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u19	Paul Zebravsky, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u20	Dear colleagues! In fact, first of all, in Baba Jar, the Ukrainians were shot, regardless of their national origin. And certainly, the veneration of the human heroes who have laid down their lives is needed by all the people. And you don't need a monopoly, as Vladimir Alexanderovich said, just the Jewish people, because there were really a lot of Ukrainians there, including Olena Teliga, and there were other prominent Ukrainian cultural actors. However, I took this word to say that the "red plague," which has resulted in the shootings of Ukrainians in Ukraine today, is trying to take a monopoly over such memorable places and very significant places for the Ukrainian people. Well, it won't work if you wanted your predecessors to build entertainment centers there, build something else. And today you're basically justifying this whole fascist thing, in fact, the ideology under the red eye. In fact, the Ukrainians should be respected, regardless of their national origin and respect, this is a debt owed to the Ukrainians to those who have fallen, including Babin Yar. Our faction supports and will vote, but without those communist criminal charges against the Ukrainians.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u21	I'm, uh, thank you. And I would like to ask the honourable colleague to keep his parliamentary remarks. Dear colleagues! I'm asking you, Victor Terrence, the "BOUT" faction is "The Fatherland." The next one will be Koleschenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u22	Victor Terrence, Timoshenko Street. Dear colleagues! In front of me was a communist woman who said, "From nationalism to fascism is one step." End of quote. Sadly, today’s Communists do not know that it was the nationalists who were shot at Baba Jar. In Babay Yar, the entire leadership of the Ukrainian Nationalists of the UN-M was shot, and the newspaper "The Ukrainian Word" was shot in Babay Jar. [[Melnika]] In Baba Jar, the Fascists shot Oleg Olžić, a beautiful Ukrainian poet for standing for Ukraine itself, not Ukraine under the Bolsheviks or under the occupation of the Fascists. In Babay Yar, a beautiful Ukrainian poet, Helen Tellig, named today one of the beautiful streets of Kiev, was shot. In Babin Yar, four Gypsy camps were shot not only in Ukraine but also in the flower of Ukrainian intelligence. In Babay Yar, a Ukrainian fleet of 150 sailors was shot. I could, unfortunately, speak for a very long time, call names, names, specific dates. Therefore, no one has the right to privatize Baba Jara’s memory, a tragedy for all Ukrainians. It's as tragic as having Bander and Melnik in Sachsenhausen. It is a tragedy that today’s vandals, perhaps the communists, the Helen Telliga Cross in Baba’s Yar, were sleeping today. And so, I would very much like for Baba Jar's tragedy to be cementing to the Ukrainian nation. To have the words of a wonderful Ukrainian publicist, writer, nationalist, head of the Ukrainian Nationalists' Guide, Oleg Štul Zdanović, who said, "The future self-sustaining Ukraine will be a shared home for all the citizens who live in it.".. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u23	Vadim Koleschenko, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u24	Vadim Koleschenko, faction of Party regions. You know, very pretty and very bright words, but about the monopolies, I'd kind of caution myself. Because this is primarily the tragedy of the Jewish people, who have been doomed to total destruction, so there is no need to exaggerate. Yes, there have been many deaths, many people of different nationalities, but the problem of the Holocaust for us, for Ukraine, is also the problem of Baby Jar. It's a good thing we remembered nationalism and patriotism. And we need to remember that the patriot is the one who doesn't feel sorry for himself for the future of the country. And a nationalist who doesn't feel sorry for anyone for his ideals. This is something that we need to understand clearly and accurately. Because the Bukovinski Chicken I was doing in Babi Yaru, let's remember. And who was protecting the people who were being taken to Babi Yar for the shooting. And in what language did they speak, and with what bonds they were bound? If historical truth is the historical truth, whatever it is. So for today, I can clearly understand and say, for the Ukrainian people, the tragedy of Baby Jar is unifying and resembling that Fascism and Nazism are the problems, it is the black crow who is still sailing over Europe today, who is spreading his evil wings over Ukraine. And our task with you is to prevent this whole mess from being revived both in our history and in our culture and in the future of our country. Today we must unite the entire Ukrainian people in this grave memory, in this tragedy. We have to understand what happened there. We need to understand why this has happened. And this tragedy and 70 years will be another lesson and understanding that we must not allow it. That is why the Party of the Regions will vote in favour of the draft regulation. We have participated directly in the work of all the organ-committees on this issue and on this issue. And we will do everything we can to make sure that neither the country nor Europe ever again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u25	Yes, Taras Cranville.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u26	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished fellow members of the national MPs, our MP group will certainly vote in favour of this draft decree. But two small warnings. First. The reporter who reported this bill from the rostrum did not actually read her draft decree. There are perfectly correct phrases written there, thank God. It says that among Baba Jar’s victims are Jews, Gypsies, and red commanders, and nationalists. They're all dead there, and they're marked in the exact correct text of the decree. Therefore, this text is unifying and must be voted for. But there are some minor errors in the text. They could be corrected during the second reading, but time does not stand. It is desirable that we today adopt a draft decree as a whole. And I am very sorry that the chairman of the committee of profile was involved in the discussion rather than mentioning the five or four points that the committee decided to make very clear. Well, let's say when it's said that these are the victims of genocide, the victims of genocide in these years are Jews themselves. But red commanders, Ukrainian nationalists are victims.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u27	Thank you. Eugene Volintz, please, the Communist faction. One minute, Eugene. Hold on, Eugene. Please finish your speech, Taras Cranville. Taras Blackwall's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u28	Well, I won't go on. The committee's conclusion is very correct on these 4 or 5 very small but minor errors. It would be good for us to accept in general, taking these adjustments into account, they don't change the text of the law, they just correct some minor mistakes that are, and they've accepted it as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u29	Thank you. Thank you. Yes, Eugene Volintz, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u30	Evgeny Volynec, town of Schachtersk, faction of the Ukrainian Company. Dear radios, dear TVs, colleagues! We're looking at this bill, it's really important. The question arises from nationalists that we have privatized this event. Who prevented you from making such a decree? There you go, surfing, and there's 600 nationalists shooting with something, but let's see, who shot? The same nationalists were shot, only with another letter attributed. Of the nearly 2,000 who participated in the shootings, there were about 1,000 300 -- they were police officers and, let's just say, the same nationalists. And I'm just surprised why the nationalists didn't say that the board was provoked by the NCCD and those who shot were redressed encavedes. The Company's faction will clearly vote in favour of this order.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u31	Ladies and gentlemen, the bill is closed. I think we need to make a decision so that we do not begin to find out. Dear colleagues, with your permission, I will read out the wording to correct the inadequacies, inadequacies that are in this draft regulation. Because we're about to celebrate all our sacrifices. We're already celebrating the Holodomor, and now we're going to celebrate the tragedy of Baba Jar. So I'm going to read now, taking into account the comments that were made, including by the committee that Taras Cranovil said. Please listen carefully. The draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the 70th anniversary of Babin Yar's tragedy. The word "determination" is deleted. Next. In 1941-1943 Babin Yar became the site of mass executions and burials, a huge brother's grave, where, according to official data, more than 100,000 people of different nationalities, peaceful people, prisoners of war, communists, underworlders, guerrillas and nationalists were killed. In view of the 70th anniversary of the mass destruction of our compatriots in Baba Jar and with the aim of perpetuating the memory of the victims of Fascism, the Supreme Council decrees: First. To honor at the national level the 70th anniversary of the tragedy of Baba Jar. The other one. Set an annual Holocaust Memorial Day on January 27. Third. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to form an organizational committee for the preparation and implementation of measures to honor the 70th anniversary of the tragedy of Baba Jar. To develop and approve the Plan of Action for the Celebration of Respect at the State level of the 70th anniversary of the tragedy of Baba Jar. Solve the issue of his financial and material security. Without the word "his". "Adequate action." Because then, "the financial security of the tragedy." Hand over the Babin Yar House to the National Cultural and Historical Reserve at: ul. Melnikova, 44, where his directorship and thematic photo exhibition should be arranged. Next, “Financing”, the word “development” is deleted. Next, the points are shifted. And at the following point, where the Ministry of Culture and Tourism is concerned, note: "To create a separate site of the National History and Memory Reserve. And given such clarifications, and the commission of a committee in the Legal Office to carry out a technical and legal editing of the project, I'm voting on its acceptance as a basis and as a whole. Registration number 8605. Please vote. [[16:27:11]] For 331 I'll take the order. Thank you. Dear National Deputies! I propose to you the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Listing Property Rights that Are Not Privatized. [[Registration number 8725]] The suggestion to consider this issue in a simplified way. [[16:27:48]] For 216 Decision taken. The reporter is Yuri Karakai, co-reporter of the committee. Who's going to be Bondar? Who's from the committee? It's the fencers, isn't it? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u32	Dear colleagues! Dear Chairman! The President's 2010-2013 Economic Reform Programme is one of the main tasks of bringing the structure of state ownership to the level of developed European states. One way to ensure that this task is done is by reviewing the list of objects banned from privatization, creating conditions for their development, including through private investment. As we know, in 20 years of independence, the state has not invested much in the enterprises it owns. And that means that those enterprises that were built 20, 40, 50 years ago have not only outdated technologies but just worn-out equipment. A request for support. A committee of profile at its meeting today made a positive decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u33	Yes, thank you, too, have a seat, please. Alexy Plonikov, please. Who's gonna report from the committee? Ah, Sergei Osika, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u34	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich and distinguished colleagues! This question was discussed at a committee meeting. This question is supported. Still, considering that the bill was not large, small, so to speak, it was supported both in the first and second readings and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u35	Yes, thank you. Please sign up for an address if you wish. Names of the national MPs, please. Valentin Matviev. Then it's Christmas Eve. Vladimir Matthew?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u36	Please pass the word to Marmazov.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u37	Eugene Marmazov, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u38	Thank you. Well, I have a question to ask the head of the Committee on Economic Affairs, Mr. Osika Sergey Grigorievich. As far as I know, they had a position before, if the proposal went from the deputies to the list or exclusion of enterprises for privatization, it was automatically rejected, only the Cabinet of Ministers could submit. Suddenly, they changed their policies and supported the draft regulation unanimously. First, why would we consider this draft regulation if the Cabinet of Ministers introduced its draft Law No. 8723, which deals with 670 enterprises: including, not including, an explanation. And here's the group taking businesses and let's get off the list. Who do we exclude from the list, the enterprise, what's the loss? What the author informed here is not true, the business is profitable, flourishing, in good condition, their prospects are excellent. But there is one question: This enterprise is prepared in advance for privatization under a certain person. It's known under whom. I tell you that in a few days, this enterprise will be with Firthash, the Ukrainian champion of the rapid accumulation of assets. But I have to tell you about this company. You can get it, as the Tenant is now seeking. For two years now, the lease has expired, and neither the money is paid by the tenant, nor by the kopeck, and two years of ridge ore, has the highest profitability. Neither the Attorney General's Office nor the Cabinet of Ministers nor the Fund shall take the necessary measures. Everything is being done to make the enterprise surrender.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u39	Vadim Koleschenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u40	Dear colleagues, it is a matter of several projects that we have several lists of enterprises that propose to withdraw and send for privatization. That is why I no longer fully understand what objects have been introduced into this bill. However, I am interested in issues related to the development of the winery industry in Crimea, because in one of the draft options, almost all wine-growing joints are subject to privatization. I believe that we are well aware that if these neighbours are vineyards, they will be privatized, Ukraine's wine will never be. That is why I propose in the second reading, I believe that this bill should be sent on second reading and dealt with with by this list, first and foremost with the interest of local territorial communities, especially as regards the wine industry, can be destroyed, but destroyed once and for all, must be examined and determined whether we really need to question the privatization of wine-growing complexes that work today in Crimea and not bad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u41	I'm giving you some help. This is not about radospas, colgassies, or wine - making enterprises. Dear National Deputies! Yuri Carmazin, I must call you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u42	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen, I thank the head of the review committee, Mr. Marmazov, for his civil position. And I want to address you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. This law that we recently passed is called Prevention and Anti-Corruption. In one article, he envisions compulsory anticorruption expertise. If such expertise had been done in government, the government would never have submitted it, but the government would not have submitted it. The Lobby Bill was passed without government, on behalf of the People’s Deputies of Maybord and Karakiah. It is not just a lobbyist bill, and it is not just about unification. And so on and so forth, it's about the Ukrainian State Glass Institute, it's about the Autosclo Production Association, it's about the Slavutski Kombinata "Budfarfor", it's about other serious greedy objects. That's why I'm saying these things when we're involved.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u43	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u44	You can't do that, Vladimir Mikhailovich, it's a classic principle. The sign of such a corrupt component in our activity. I ask you to reject this law. He could not deserve any further adoption of such drafts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u45	Thank you. Question completed. And what we include in the morning, and then we look at it, is a testimony to an operational and joint action with the Cabinet.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u46	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u47	Well, you didn't listen to the end: together with the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? I am voting on the proposal for approval of the Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Listing Property Rights Objects That Are Not Privatized. [[Registration number 8725]] Please vote. [[16:35:53]] For 244 Decision taken. Thank you. I'm announcing it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u48	The factions? Please. Region Party - 185, "BUT – Fatherland" – 0, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 12, Communists – 0, "Reforms for the Future" – 20, National Party – 20, non-factional – seven. Decision taken. Thank you. I am announcing for consideration the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine. [[on strengthening land use control]] [[Registration number 8385]] Suggestion: To consider the issue of a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[16:36:42]] For 222 Decision taken. The reporter is Yuri Litwin, co-rapporteur of the Grigory Kaletnik Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u49	Thank you. The Constitution of Ukraine defines the earth as the principal national wealth under the special protection of the State. However, this provision of the basic law for today remains a mere slogan. As a result, there is a steady trend in soil degradation, a decrease in the supply of gum, a steady flow of nutrients, acidification and salinization, and soil destruction. Under these conditions, there is a real threat of further intense degradation of the soil cover — the main agricultural product. With a view to correcting this negative situation, the Ukraine Land Protection Act was adopted in 2003, which, inter alia, sets out rules for financing land and land protection measures at the expense of Ukraine's State Budget. It should be noted that during the last two years there has been a budget programme aimed at financing conservation and soil fertility measures, but no bracelets have been allocated during this period. The adoption of this Law will allow Ukraine to form a special State fund in the form of the State Budget to stimulate the growth of soil fertility, whose costs will be directed solely to the solution of protection problems, the reproduction of quality and high-productive soil conditions. The bill is designed to amend articles 5, 8 and to supplement with a new article 8.1 of the Ukrainian Law on State Control of Land Use and Protection. The proposed changes determine the powers of the executive authorities to exercise State control over compliance with land protection standards and standards, as well as the conservation of soil fertility. The Ukrainian Land Protection Act provides for amendments to articles 27, 30 and 55, as well as to be supplemented by a new article 33.2. These changes introduce a mechanism to compensate agricultural producers for the costs incurred in implementing measures to increase soil fertility on a positive balance of nutrients and to compensate land users for the cost to the State Budget on a negative balance basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u50	Yes, thank you, too. Sit down, please. Yes, the head of the Committee, Gregory Kaletnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u51	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! We are all aware of the extent to which today’s unresolved land protection issues, the preservation of their fertility, and the fact that much of the agricultural land is leased, and not every tenant counts it as a permanent lease, and of course tries to rent it in such a way as to make the most of it. So the non-use of scientificly based crops sometimes in the culture structure, which should come into place after 5, 6, 7 years, are repeated two, three years later, leading to the depletion of the soil, to the reduction of fertility. This is the kind of bill developed by the National Deputies and now envisions the elimination of these and a number of other problems. In particular, in the area of land use control and land control and the creation of stable financial security for public policy enforcement in the area of land protection, there is a clarification of the cost compensation mechanism that agricultural producers have incurred in implementing measures to increase soil fertility, fertility standards and so on, and vice versa, requirements are made for those who can reduce soil fertility. The committee considered the bill and the discussions, which were of a rather long and interesting nature, decided and considered it appropriate to adopt, as a basis, a draft law amending certain Ukrainian legislation on strengthening land use control, number 8385, and to refer it to a second reading procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u52	I agree with you. Dear National Deputies! Is the offer understood? Shall we make a decision? I'm betting on a motion for adoption on the basis of draft law, registration number 8385, please vote. [[16:41:49]] For 252 Decision taken. Thank you. I propose to you a draft Act on the characteristics of leases or concessions of buildings of the fuel and energy complex that are owned by the State. 8705, the proposal to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[16:42:20]] For 212 Reporter Igor Gluschenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u53	Dear National Deputies! You will be given a draft of the Ukrainian Act on Renting or Concession of Fuel and Energy Facilities of Ukraine, which is owned by the State. [[Registration number 8705]] The UK Coal Development Programme, by 2010, had set out a number of tasks to address the problems of carbon-carbon enterprises by reforming property relations. However, the implementation of these tasks stems from the absence of real standard mechanisms for the rental or concession of buildings of the fuel and energy complex, which are state-owned, which take into account the specificities of the sector. The Ukrainian Law on Privatisation of State Property states that fuel-energy facilities are privatized in order provided for by the separate Act on the Specificities of Privatization of Fuel-Energy Enterprises. However, the practice of reforming previous years has given rise to the characteristics of leases or concessions of PEC objects that are state-owned – in the broad sense of the process, based on different forms of farming, improving the efficiency of the use of state property. In connection with the above, a draft of the Ukrainian Act "On the peculiarities of leases or concessions of PEC objects held by state ownership" has been developed. The aim of the bill is to improve the competitiveness of coal, such as domestic and external products, improve the financial and economic situation of PEC enterprises, allow for gradual declines in state support for the further development of PEC facilities over five years and until they are fully discontinued, and increase the efficiency of their use.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u54	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u55	The main scientific and expert office recommends that the results of the first reading be taken as a basis for taking into account the comments and suggestions made. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u56	Yes, thank you, have a seat, please. Please sign up for the performance. Yes, last names, please. Valerius Kamchatny.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u57	Please pass the word to Crnwall College, but I pressed the green button wrongly.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u58	Let's give the committee a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u59	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I cannot speak for or against this bill for one reason. This is the order of the day for today. I was just taking a special walk: first, on those that have not yet considered the bills; then on those that we included in the morning. He's nowhere, he's not set up for today. We're very serious, our MPs, we're preparing on every issue, with a schedule for the day, we're preparing in detail expert conclusions, we're working on every paragraph, how we should vote for a bill that's not known where it came from, which is not listed in this collection today. So how do we vote if we can't make our position clear in this moment?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u60	Dear colleagues, I explain that at the Conciliation Board meeting, National Deputy Alexander Efraemov and the Committee on Fuel and Energy Complex suggested that this issue be included in the preparation. And that question was agreed. But then in the process of collecting all the proposals, the bill fell out. And I had a difficult conversation with the initiators. A stenographer was picked up and the transcript showed that they had agreed to consider it today. So this morning, at the morning session, we put it into the agenda and at the evening session, we view it as one prepared by the committee for consideration. I mean, there's no trick, it's just a technical mess. Ladies and gentlemen, the committee is proposing to adopt the bill as a basis. The main scientific and expert office believes that the bill can be adopted as a basis. I'm voting on a proposal for adoption based on a draft Act on the characteristics of leases or concessions of buildings of the fuel-energy complex that are owned by the state. [[Registration number 8705]] Please vote. [[16:47:44]] For 214 The decision is not taken. I'm betting on the vote on re-reading the draft law. [[Registration number 8705]] Please vote. [[16:48:10]] For 239. Decision taken. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I am sorry to introduce to your consideration the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2011. [[on the development of physical culture and sports]] [[Registration number 8688]] The proposal is to consider the simplified procedure. [[16:48:49]] For 217 Decision taken. The rapporteur is Victor Korge, co-rapporteur, head of the Committee on Budget Affairs, Valery Baranov.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u61	The Honourable Chairman, the Honourable People's Deputies, myself and the People's Deputies, Suškević and Tadeev, have prepared a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine 2011. [[on the development of physical culture and sports]] The aim of the bill is to solve urgent problems, develop physical and sports and improve their financial and material state. A bill to implement the stated goal is proposed: to increase the expenditure of the state budget general fund by 77.3 million dollars under the programmes of the Ministry of Education, Science, Youth and Sports and the National Agency for the preparation and conduct of the final part of the European Championship in Ukraine. The proposed changes will allow for the proper preparation and effective participation of national teams from the Olympics and sports for disabled people in the 30-year-old Olympic Games and the 14-year Paralympic Games of 2012, and will allow them to participate in the World Championships, Europe and other competitions that give them the right to win licences for the Olympic Games. The Chief Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council generally supports the legislative initiative. I would like to point out that during the discussion of the bill at the Committee on Budgetary Questions, proposals were supported by national deputies Baranov and Lukyanov, who are involved in resolving urgent issues and promptly carrying out the corresponding public budget expenditure. These proposals have no impact on the general parameters of government budget expenditure. As drafters of the bill, we have no objection to making such proposals to the law that we have prepared. Dear colleagues, I ask you to support the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2011 and to adopt it on the basis and in general, taking into account the proposals made on the committee. I'm stressing this, because until the Olympics are exactly one year away, you and I are going to go on vacation, if we don't accept these changes, then the preparations for the Olympics and the Paralympics will be completely ruined.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u62	Yes, thank you. Valery Baranov, head of the committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u63	Dear Vladimir Mikhajlovich, honourable members of the people, the committee today reviewed this bill at its meeting and concluded that the bill's position was balanced with regard to the state budget. The Ministry of Finance considers it appropriate to adopt this bill. And the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority of the Supreme Council generally supports the proposed legislative proposal. As a result of the review, the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council a draft Ukrainian Law amending the State Budget Act on the results of the first reading to be adopted on the basis and as a whole as a law taking into account the proposals made in the present budget committee to the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u64	Thank you. Dear colleagues! No objection to making a decision? None. I am voting on the proposal of a committee on adoption as a basis and in general, taking into account the proposals made by the committee of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2011. [[on the development of physical culture and sports]] I'm asking you to support the authors of our project and support the sport, Mikola Tomenka and a group of our colleagues. Please vote. On the basis and in general, taking into account the committee's proposals. [[16:53:01]] For 291 The law is passed. Thank you. Dear National Deputies! We need to adopt yet another draft of the Amendments to the Act on Honorary Literacy and the Grammar of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[on the violation of the problem]] The committee considered and accepted the proposal as a whole. That's what this is about, dear colleagues. For factions to be able to bring rewards to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Well, let me put it to a vote, you'll be defined by a vote. No objections? I put to the vote a draft regulation amending the Regulations on Honorary Literacy and the Grammar of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, for adoption as a decree. [[on the violation of the problem]] [[Registration number 8584]] [[16:54:11]] For 274 I'll take the order. Dear National Deputies! I suggest that you consider the draft Law on the Limitation of Costs for Legal Aid, the proposal from the authors, i.e. the Kabmin, consider this issue with a reduced procedure. [[Registration number 8393]] Please vote. [[16:54:45]] For the 220. Decision taken. The rapporteur is the First Deputy Minister of Justice, Emilianova Inna Ivanovna, as defined in the Office of the Ministers of Ukraine. Correspondent is the head of the Committee on Justice's subcommittee, Vadim Vasilovich Kolesnichenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u65	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! The draft Law on the Limits of Reimbursement of Legal Aid Costs has been developed to implement article 84 of the Civil Procedure Code and article 90 of the Code of Administrative Justice. In accordance with these procedural codes, it is determined that it is the law that regulates the issue of establishing a limit on compensation for legal aid costs. Along with the conclusion of the procedural codes, it was determined that before the legislative settlement of the matter, a proper decision had to be taken by the government and it had been adopted in 2006, this was the Government Regulation 590, which was temporary, pending the adoption of the relevant law, settled the issue of the establishment of this marginal amount of compensation. The draft law provides that the amount of this compensation shall be fixed and shall not exceed 40 per cent of the minimum wage per hour of the person providing legal assistance in court proceedings and in individual proceedings. At the same time, it is proposed to establish that if a party in a civil or administrative case for exemption from legal aid costs, the amount of compensation for the party for whom the decision has been made is compensated at the expense of the State budget and cannot exceed 2.5 percent of the minimum wage per hour for the person providing such legal assistance. I want to say that the implementation of this bill will not require additional costs from the state budget, as they are in the state budget for today. The appropriate state court administration is responsible for these funds. In this regard, please, honourable national deputies, support the bill and accept it in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u66	Thank you, too, sit down, please. Vadim Koleshnenko, head of the Committee on Justice.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u67	Honorary colleagues, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Justice, discussed at its meeting a bill of Ukraine on the limit of compensation and expenses and legal aid submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The bill at the legislative level reinforces the guarantee of compensation in civil and administrative matters, the cost of legal aid incurred by a party in favour of which a judicial decision is rendered and which is not subject to authority, at the expense of the other party, or under the law at the expense of the State. But committee members, in support of this position as a whole, believe that the bill needs some work. First of all, we point out that the project proposes to compensate for legal aid costs only in the form of participation in a court hearing and in the course of individual proceedings outside the court. However, the concept of legal aid in its content is much broader and involves studying the material of the matter, preparing the necessary documents, and so forth. In this regard, there is a need for a clear definition of exactly what legal aid costs are being compensated for by the party whose decision is approved. In addition, there is a need for further identification of how to pay for legal aid costs in the current year's government budget, as well as a mechanism for calculating legal aid costs by recalculating the current accounts in the banking institution. The expert agencies make an approving decision on the adoption of this bill in the first reading. Taking into account what has been said, the Committee on Justice considers it possible to recommend to the Supreme Council that the draft Ukrainian Law on the Limitation of Legal Aid Loss, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, should be adopted on the basis of the first reading. [[Registration number 8393]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u68	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the offer is clear, isn't it? Now, just to be clear, I'm asking you to sign up for this. May I have the names of the people's deputies on the board? Taras Cranowil and Ruslan Knyazevitch, Well, Ruslan Knazevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u69	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, national deputies! The MP's Reform for the Future, after studying the bill, according to it, thank God, it's all on schedule. There are no jumps; it does not appear from anywhere. Appropriately, we have been able to process it properly to this day, and we have, we have, we have, we have, we have, we have, we have, we have, we have, we have, we have, we have, we have, we have, we have, we have, we have, we have, we have, we have, we have, we have, we have, we We were obliged to take the appropriate legislative initiative a long time ago, and we should have implemented it. And it is good that she finally came from the Cabinet of Ministers today. Since, according to 84 articles of the CDC and articles 90 of the SASU, we should settle these issues exclusively by law. The fact that this has been implemented by the Cabinet of Ministers so far has clearly been a measure of legal nihilism. And so today, by doing so, by adopting this bill, we are fulfilling our commitment to the Civil Code of Ukraine. Therefore, under the circumstances, it is clearly necessary to vote in favour. And I think we can, in principle, vote not only on the basis, but on the whole. The other thing that might be a discussion is whether it's the standards that the reparations are supposed to be, whether they're right or wrong. In the view of the members of our group, they are adequate, and they can be supported. But in this case, to avoid going beyond article 116, such matters are better regulated by a separate bill. So our proposal is to support this bill as a basis and, if there is no objection, as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u70	Thank you. Yuri Klukkowski, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u71	Thank you. Yuri Klukkowski, "Our Ukraine." I think it's important to hear an alternative position on this bill. I would like to remind you that the right to judicial protection and not just the right, but one of the fundamental constitutional rights protected by both chapter II of the Constitution and the European Convention on Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. So what is now being proposed is not really a limitation on compensation for legal aid, but it is essentially a limitation on the right to judicial protection for people who do not have large assets. This means that access to the court, including not only the services of a lawyer, but also the drafting of documents and everything else, will be limited to those copies that the State will willingly accept as a limit on compensation. I believe that whoever voted in favour of this bill will do everything possible to ensure that in Ukraine only rich people have access to judicial protection. I urge you not to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u72	Yes, thank you. Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. The word is that this funding is being made at the expense of the State Budget. Dear colleagues, the committee's proposal: to accept the bill as a basis. I'm voting on a proposal for adoption based on the draft Law on the Limits of Reimbursement of Legal Aid Costs. [[Registration number 8393]] Please vote. [[17:03:20]] For 270. Decision taken. Here was an offer to accept it as a whole, but there is a denial. I understand, Yuri Bogdanovich? There is a denial, meaning a request to the committee, carefully working on the second reading. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose to you a draft law on documents certifying the person and certifying the citizenship of Ukraine. [[Registration number 8507, 8507-1]] Again, the drafters suggest that they be considered in a simplified manner. I have to put this motion to a vote. Please vote. [[17:04:13]] For 218. Decision taken. The rapporteurs are Ukrainian National Deputy Valérie Konovaluk and First Deputy Justice Minister Inna Jemelyanova. Please. Victor Terrence, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u73	. word. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the committee on these two bills has not considered it. Nor did he consider that there were three deputies out of eight or three opposition deputies, nor did he consider that there was no conclusion to the government bill. First, there's no financial basis for both bills, and the committee's going to go to the bill thoroughly and considerately, especially since they're talking about such fundamental things as passports, there's information about how much it's going to cost people, citizens, the state as a whole. Therefore, the consideration of these bills should be postponed until autumn, especially since the Cabinet of Ministers says they will be introduced, the bill will be introduced as of 1 January 2013. Where are we going? So there's no committee conclusion, there's no financial justification, there's no scientific expertise. It's a gross violation, we have no right to consider these bills. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u74	Thank you. I think the gross violation is that the committee isn't looking at it for two months. [[B in m in s a l in]] I say again, consider the bill. And please, Your Honor, hold a committee meeting and attend a committee meeting. The only problem here is that Bill 13.05 is registered. 2011 the authors and then the bill comes in 03. 06th from the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Here's the problem, I totally agree with you that he has no right to look at and register. Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u75	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! In the 19th century, man had to explain who he was. In the 20th century, to show who it is, in the 21st century, to prove who it is. Therefore, the introduction of biometric identification documents is not simply fulfilling the European Union’s requirements for visa-free treatment but also meeting the needs of today’s and civilised development of society. The ideologies of today’s identification documents have been developed since Soviet times. Their technology is outdated and does not match the world’s experience. The documents provided for by the bill are fully in line with the standards of the ICAO international organisation, the requirements of the OSCE, Interpol and will allow for a reliable accounting of the demographic processes in Ukraine. The bill was drafted on a request from the President of Ukraine for a national plan of action for liberalisation by the European Union of the visa regime for Ukraine, which provides for the introduction of biometric information in electronic documents. The project’s national information system for the registration and documentation of natural persons provides a valid accounting system. Biometric information about a person will be contained on a specially protected non-contact electronic medium, which greatly simplifies and accelerates the identification process of a person by such documents. The project will also ensure that documentation is cheaper and simplified, that individuals are more protected from fraud and corruption, and that documents are used automatically. The bill is designed to effectively manage migration processes, create a personal data protection system, European data, establish a biometric verification system and identify Ukrainian citizens, combat crime, trafficking in human beings, protect Ukrainian citizens abroad, as well as foreigners and stateless persons who are in Ukraine. The adoption of this bill and the systematization of a document certifying a person confirm citizenship, including special status, of a single individual.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u76	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u77	Ukraine’s international obligations are ensured. And finally, I want to say that the introduction of electronic documents such as a Ukrainian citizen's certificate, a passport, by a bill, provides a clear and transparent bill for citizens. They are fulfilling the national function of controlling demographic situations through which the country's economic and social development indicators are being built. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u78	Thank you, sit down, please. Emilianova Inna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u79	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! For your consideration, a draft law introduced by the government on documents certifying the person and certifying the citizenship of Ukraine is presented. This law is very much needed by our state today, and not to carry out a plan of action for the liberalisation of Ukraine's visa regime by the European Union. It is necessary for every citizen to be provided with a proper level of protection in a document that testifies to the individual so that our citizens can actually get a visa-free regime and visit the countries of the European Union. This bill provides an exclusive list of documents that identify a person. He defines the requirements for each of these types of documents, the grounds for their issuance, and the requirements for technical protection. Unlike the alternative bill proposed by the people's deputies, the bill introduced by the government does not conflict with the Constitution in any of its provisions. At the same time, an alternative bill of national MPs contains rules that conflict with 106 articles of the Constitution, identifying the specific central authority of the executive authority to which the state information system for the registration of natural persons and their documentation will be applied. This is an exclusive mandate under the Constitution, the exclusive authority of the President of Ukraine. It is he who forms the central organs of the executive branch, and he determines their competence. At the same time, this bill provides an alternative to providing a non-exclusive list of information that will be available in this state information system. And if this list at the legislative level is non-exclusive, we understand that it will continue to lead to violations of human rights and freedoms, which will run an unlimited circle, because it does not close the list where it is next listed, and so on. This means that article 8 of the Convention on the Protection of Rights and Fundamentals will be violated.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u80	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u81	Thank you. on the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms. Where it says, "that interference, that private life by nature is not an absolute right," that it should be allowed to interfere with it only in accordance with the law, only for legitimate purposes, and only when it is necessary in a democratic society. That is, there must be a principle of proportionality of intervention and there can be no unlimited circle of information to be run in one system or another. Thank you. I'm asking you to support the government project.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u82	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Oleg Zarubinsky, Head of the Committee on Human Rights and National Relations Please don't scream! I want to say again, the committee meeting is scheduled to take place on a fixed date. I'm telling you, last week. You listen to what I'm saying! Last week, when there was a week of committee work, there were only two committees, and others were not. Don't be a beast, please!
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u83	Dear colleagues, I'm going to make an expert point of view and therefore I don't think there's any reason for this. The expert view of the committee secretariat's staff, which I think is better than some deputies, is being addressed in the essence of this bill. Obviously, even with the identical title of the bills, their direction is identical, indeed, namely: it is legislative to establish a list and a description of the form of documents that certify the person and confirm the citizenship of Ukraine. Until now, the forms and descriptions of this type of document have been determined by the Supreme Council of Ukraine's decrees, the President's decrees and the Cabinet's decrees. Their order of production, extradition, and destruction, and so forth, are established by the Cabinet and its famous instructions. In both of these bills, the whole procedure relating to the listing, production, issuance of these documents is consolidated into a single legal act and is legally established. Undoubtedly, this is a progressive step that strengthens the protection and accounting of documents that identify a person and support Ukrainian citizenship. It should be noted that at the same time there are some differences between these bills. Yes, Bill 8507 sets out two types of documents: documents that identify the person and confirm the nationality of Ukraine and documents that identify the person and his or her special status. Bill 8507-1 establishes documents certifying the person and certifying the nationality of Ukraine. Documents that identify a person and his or her special status are not in this bill at all. The bill, registration number 8507, introduced for the first time the systematized concept of "State Information System – DIS", established the Chief Information Manager, personal information. Unlike Bill 8507-1, the alternative, form and description of the documents themselves are established by law, not by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. That's the main difference is the law, not the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u84	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u85	So I'm stressing for accuracy. The expert assessment is that, according to the Liberalisation Action Plan with the European Union, the visa regime for Ukraine, where it has indeed been said that one of the first measures is the adoption of legislative acts for the introduction of Ukrainian documents to go abroad with the electronic media of biometric information, more so is Bill 8507. With the alternative bill in preparation for second reading, everyone understands that all the positives can be taken. The Scientific and Experimental Administration of Bill 8507 considers that one can be accepted on a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u86	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please sign up for the performance. Please show us the names of the national MPs. Leonid Kojara.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u87	Dear National MPs, well, for the first time in 20 years of independence, the Supreme Council has finally come to the fore, you can call, in fact, codified material on documents that identify a citizen. This is especially important today because you know that Ukraine has approved the EU Action Plan on the visa-free regime, and the document that testifies to the person and the foreign passport is the main element of this action plan. Today, sufficient technology is being created in Ukraine, and today all we need is the technology of these instruments to create an appropriate legislative base. It seems to me that, well, unfortunately, the project that the Ministry of Justice submitted does not meet today's demands. And I believe it is necessary to support the bill submitted by Deputy Konovaluk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u88	Yes. Valérie Calchenko gives the right to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u89	Please pass the word to Terrence.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u90	The right to speak to Victor Terrence, please, the faction "BUT is the Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u91	Thank you, thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I have one question. I have great respect for the head of the committee, and he knows it. I respect the head of the Supreme Council, but I would like to ask, did Zarubinsky speak in what role here if there was no committee meeting? If he was acting as an ordinary MP, he had the right to register and then speak in a manner of speaking. That's the first one. The other one. The committee's meeting was not because, I repeat, Vladimir Mikhailovich, that 3 opposition deputies out of 8, most of our committee, you know which one didn't show up for a meeting, but because there's no conclusion to a government bill. To the honor of our committee, there are various political forces, we have a very thorough view of every bill. And in our bill, in this, it would also be important to consider, to understand, but there wasn't even a financial basis. There is no conclusion. Where are we going? We are in grave violation of the Rules. And we didn't get together, I repeat to you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, not because the bad committee, but because there were no conclusions, we had no right to gather. Next. You're telling everyone here that this will help us join Europe, these bills, with what's being done in Ukraine, with what's being done in the Cave Justice of Kiev, when Lucenka is being bullied and tortured, we don't see Europe. And it's not because we're going to take the trouble of breaking the Rules with Europe. This is colossal corruption, these bills. Vladimir Mikhailovich, you know that. These are subordinations of certain commercial structures, one and the other. Therefore, the government insists on a financial basis on which, to his honour, he insists that these bills can only be adopted since 2013. Without financial justification, without committee conclusions, without scientific expertise, we have no right to violate them, to accept them. And if we're in favour of corruption, not the law, please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u92	Thank you. Ruslan Knazevitch, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u93	Dear colleagues, well, surely the faction is the principle behind solving this issue, because we understand that, indeed, the plan acts as a prerequisite for, let's say, getting it, it's about visa liberalisation, it's very imperative to ask questions about this issue. But today, as I learned from Oleg Alexanderovich's speech, there is indeed some sort of intrigue. And for me, the first precedent ever happened when we had a discussion between the governing majority and the government. And I'll tell you that we have to somehow remove the tension in the plan to either cross or answer those questions that were asked by the Deputy Minister of Justice from the rostrum. I would like to remind you that, in fact, Minust accused the MP of violating the requirements of the Constitution. I mean, he actually sounded unconstitutional about this project, specifically saying that there was a violation of 106 articles of the Constitution, which are defined regardless of what the Constitution requires, that this can only be done by the President. 106th article is the President's mandate. Here, the law clearly establishes the body to do so. So let's sort this out in some way. I'm so aware of the conflict. And the best way to solve this is to get the two bills back to work and let them sit together at the table. And on behalf of the parliamentary-government majority, a single bill will be passed. Because if we see such serious contradictions at this stage right now, I'm not ruling out that this question will be, even if it will be accepted in a debate in the Constitutional Court. Clearly, if Minniest was in a position to recognize the unconstitutionality of the law as a whole because of some contradiction, his prospects were obviously very poor. To prevent this from breaking the agreements we have made before Europe, let us do so today, until this issue has become serious, acute, for example, discussions, once and for all. And in the near future, I think a day or two will somehow answer that question, is there a coherent view between the government and a well-conceived majority. If she's not here, I don't know what the prospect of this bill might be. Because it is the government that must do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u94	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Question completed. I'll give you more information on chronology. In 13.05.2011, the national deputies of Konovaluk, Zarubinski, Moysik, Coastal and Budgerak registered a draft relevant law on documents certifying the person and certifying the citizenship of Ukraine. 3.06.2011 comes the legislative initiative of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The apparatus assures me that in connection with the clarification of the Constitutional Court, the weekends need to be thrown out and that they have exactly 14 days to submit the bill. Next. Today's the 5th. It will be two months soon as the bill has been introduced. I'm the one who's talking to committee work. Why are we taking all these problems to the session room right now? The committee should look at what is and deliver its conclusions. The conclusion of the Scientific and Experimental Authority is before Bill 8507. And I don’t think we should put in place such a practice to wait for these documents to arrive, so we need to find out. Obviously, we have some kind of misunderstanding between the majority, in fact, and the Cabinet of Ministers. But we need to find out. And now that we've considered this issue, we need to make the right decision. So, honourable national MPs, I'm putting a motion to vote according to order and giving registration to draft adoption bills based on the draft Law on Documents certifying the person and certifying the citizenship of Ukraine. 8507 – MP. Please vote. [[17:23:10]] For 243 Decision taken. I think by voting we've removed the tension on this issue. Now, please. () [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, I can't command deputies. The Constitution states that the Head of the Supreme Council is in charge of the session, well, I'm in charge. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask the committee to carefully examine the government bill in order for us to go to the country's document for the second reading. Yes, the draft Law on the National Bureau of Anti-Corruption Investigations of Ukraine is under consideration. I'm betting on the vote on this proposal. [[17:24:17]] For 212 Decision taken. The rapporteur is the head of the committee's subcommittee on combating organized crime and corruption, Alexander Grigorovich Rybek. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u95	Honourable Volodymira Mikhailovich, honourable colleagues, is invited to consider the draft Law on the National Bureau of Anti-Corruption Investigations of Ukraine. [[Registration number 5031 from March 2, 2010]] We have considered the bill carefully on the committee, and we suggest that it be sent for further processing in connection with what? [[start at the end]] In view of the fact that today, in changing the Constitution, namely, the main entry into force of the new Law of July 1, "On the Principles for Preventing and Resisting Corruption", there have been many proposals to be taken into account in this law and to study the points of application of the new law, to see how capable subjects today are in the fight against organized crime and corruption. And that's why we're still asking for time to have all the authors from all the factions work out this bill. The committee's decision on this is, and so I'm asking him to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u96	Ladies and gentlemen, the committee proposes to adopt a decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the return of the subject of the right of legislative initiative to draft a bill. I ask you to support the vote. I am voting on the proposal to adopt a draft decree by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the return of the bill on the National Bureau of Anti-Corruption Investigations of Ukraine to the subject of the right of legislative initiative to work. [[Registration number 5031/P]] Please vote. [[17:26:32]] For 274 Decision taken. Honourable National Deputies, I am announcing for the consideration of the draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine in order to improve the regulation of the utility market. [[Registration number 7276]] Request to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. [[17:27:03]] For 215 Decision taken. The rapporteur is national deputy Vladimir Gerasimchuk, co-rapporteur with the Committee on Construction, Urban, Housing and Regional Policy, Victor Matchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u97	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! Your opinion is proposed by draft Law No. 7276, which provides for improved regulation of the utility market by introducing certain formulations of different laws that regulate the activities of the housing and utilities sector into the single and clear rules for all parties to the relevant legal relationship. The bill definitively defines the list of powers of state authorities and local self-government authorities regarding the regulation of housing and utilities. This will prevent negative consequences for residential enterprises from changing the powers of executive authorities and local self-government regarding government regulation of prices, tariffs on municipal services. The draft law also strengthens the incentives and responsibilities of the National Committee for the Regulation of the Municipal Services Market by defining terms for the consideration of proposals by entities, providers, producers and providers of housing and utility services for the review of tariff levels, the introduction of the term "regulatory delay" and the obligation to reimburse the costs for the provision of housing-communal services provided by this regulatory delay. The Commission’s mandate also includes the development of a clear list of materials to be added to the tariffs. This is aimed at preventing possible corruption and illegal demands of officials of the commission during the adoption and consideration of documents issued by operators for setting tariffs. Honorary colleagues, the adoption of a draft Ukrainian Law amending certain Ukrainian laws aimed at improving the regulation of the utility market, will help to eliminate existing colossalities and gaps in the legislation on the regulation of tariffs for utilities and licensing in the country’s economy, will help to increase the responsibility of owners in the field of the JC.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u98	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u99	and will ensure the provision of quality and unbreakable municipal services to the population. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u100	Victor Josephovich Matchuk, please, from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u101	Victor Matchuk, "Our Ukraine." Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, perhaps another one of you remembers how a year ago very quickly, practically, without discussion, the Law on the National Commission on the Regulation of the Community Service Market was passed here. It was adopted quickly, but it had been a year, and until now it had not worked. So far, the National Commission has not been established, so far there is no central executive authority that should approve housing and utility tariffs. The law was passed quickly, but the terminology with existing other legislation did not coincide, there is no way that utilities can compensate for their losses because no one considers and approves new tariffs. That is why, on December 1, last year, the proposed bill was considered on our profile committee and a decision was made to recommend to the Supreme Council that it be supported on a basis, perhaps by working on a second reading. Thank you, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u102	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, is there a need for discussion? Nobody insists? No, it's not. I am voting on the proposal then to adopt the draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine in order to improve the regulation of the utility market. [[Registration number 7276]] I'd like to make a statement. [[17:31:40]] For-31 The decision is not taken. I am voting on the proposal to return the subject to the legislative initiative of the draft law. Please be sure. [[17:32:07]] For-46 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. Honourable National Deputies, the draft Law on Amendments to the Master Code of Ukraine (for individuals and individuals of entrepreneurs) is under review. [[B in m in s a l in]] Short cut? Let's put it to a brief vote on this issue. Please vote. There's not much left, there's 17 more bills. [[17:32:44]] For 209 Decision taken. The rapporteur is Ukraine's national deputy, Irina Gorin, co-reporter, Alexy Plotnikov, from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u103	Dear colleagues, the 2009 Bill is very simple, very technical. It concerns the settlement of terms which, in various laws, the Economic Code, the Civil Code, in the Law on Registration of Legal and Physical Persons of Entrepreneurs, has one sense of burden in completely different terms. So we have citizens, natural persons, we have business citizens, individuals who are entrepreneurs, Ukrainian citizens, foreigners and stateless people. All of this, in the end, in the clarification of various disputes, various actors and business activities, and simply citizens, is brought to justice and in the relations of citizens and individuals of entrepreneurs with different public authorities. Therefore, please accept on first reading. We have expert management comments, we'll take them all into second reading. But this is important in order simply to make life easier for our citizens in the light of certain circumstances. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u104	From the committee, deputy head of the committee, Alexy Plonikov.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u105	Dear head! Dear National Deputies! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Economic Policy at its meeting on July 5, 2011, reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Code of Masters, which was introduced by the national deputy Gorin. [[on individuals and individuals of entrepreneurs]] The draft Law is indeed designed to make some changes to such a precise nature, i.e. there are editorials that are more relevant to the content and economic activity of entrepreneurs and the economic activity of entrepreneurs. So this is rather a technical law, but without which it is not possible to develop normally such an important sphere as entrepreneurial activity. The main scientific and expert management, in its conclusion of November 26, notes that the bill can be adopted in the first reading on the basis of comments and suggestions expressed by management. The Cabinet of Ministers, in its conclusion of March 4, confirmed the bill, the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Ukrainian law to be adopted in the first reading and on a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u106	Is there a need to discuss this bill? Nobody insists? I put to the vote a proposal for a committee to adopt as a basis for the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Code of Masters. [[on individuals and individuals of entrepreneurs]] Registration number 2398, once again, please vote. [[17:36:11]] For 292 Decision taken. Dear National Deputies! A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Police Act is being announced for consideration. [[on the duties and rights of the police in ensuring the internal affairs system]] [[Registration number 4829]] I'm voting on a motion to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. [[17:36:49]] For 224 Decision taken. The rapporteur is the head of the committee's subcommittee on law enforcement activities, Vasil Gretzak.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u107	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! You are being considered under the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Police Act. [[on the duties and rights of the police in securing a system of justice by the authorities of the internal affairs of Ukraine]] According to an audit by the law enforcement authorities of the Ukrainian Court of Auditors, the system for issuing police documents of a permissive nature is based on the numerous legal regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, which are well informed of orders and instructions, and does not meet all the requirements of the current legislation. The project envisions changes to article 10, "Basic duties of the police" and 11, "Right of the militia" of the Ukrainian Police Act. The changes were made taking into account the Ukrainian Law on the Free System of Economic Activities. Thus, the law establishes a standard for mandatory issuance of militias according to the legislation of the above - mentioned permits and the right to revoke such permits. At the same time, in accordance with article 4 of the Ukrainian Law on the Free System of Economic Activities on the need to regulate certain relations related to the obtaining of documents of a permissive nature only by law in articles 10 and 11 of the Ukrainian Law on Militia, the time-limit for the decision to issue or refuse permits is laid down. A comprehensive list of the reasons for its refusal and annulment of the Ukrainian Ministry of Internal Affairs and its observations do not and does not support it. I ask you, your honor, to support this bill, and if there are any nuances, according to the Chief Executive, we will correct it in a second reading. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u108	Yeah, did you report as a reporter, and from the committee, did I get that?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u109	Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u110	Is there a need to discuss? Nobody insists? I'm voting on the proposal for adoption in the first reading of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Police Act. [[on the duties and rights of the police in ensuring the internal affairs system]] [[17:39:39]] For 249 The Law was adopted in the first reading. We are considering: the draft Act amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine. [[on bringing criminal legislation of Ukraine into line with international law]] [[Registration number 7164]] There's a proposal for a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[17:40:18]] For 216 Yes, I invite Sweden, the drafter of the bill. What are we going to do, there's no bill? Do you want me Yes, from the Committee – Olijnik Vladimir Mikolaiovich, First Deputy Head of the Committee on Legislative Security and Law Protection, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u111	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues. The Committee on Legislative Security and Law Protection has considered the draft Act amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine submitted by the national deputy of Ukraine to Sweden. [[on bringing criminal legislation of Ukraine into line with international law]] At the same time, the author of the bill made a letter asking that the bill be prepared for the validity of article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules. And it requires the introduction of unpredicted amendments to article 112 of the Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code. The author requests that it be removed from consideration in order to comply with the requirements of the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u112	Thank you. I got the offer. I am voting on a motion to withdraw from the draft Act amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine. [[on bringing criminal legislation of Ukraine into line with international law]] [[Registration number 7164]] Please vote. [[17:42:00]] For 264 The bill was removed. We are considering the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences on Strengthening Measures from Nature Protection. [[Registration number 7322]] There's a proposal for a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[17:42:37]] For 215 Offer supported. Yes, the author of the bill is Tomenko, Prokopchuk, Moses. You don't? Yes, from the Shemchuk Committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u113	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! The Committee on Law Enforcement Law Enforcement, submitted by the Ukrainian National Deputies, Tomenk, Prokopczuk and Moses, discussed the draft Law on Amendments to the Code of Administrative Offences on Strengthening Measures for Nature Protection. The bill is designed to improve conservation. Its task is to extend the mandate of the environmental community by granting the right to file protocols for specific violations in the field of nature conservation. The draft law is considered to be extremely relevant. Hence, its developers are invited to make changes to part one of article 255, which proposes that additional powers be given to the creation of protocols for various types of violations of environmental legislation by public environmental inspectors. Among such violations are violations and gross violations of the rules of fishing, the manufacture and sale of prohibited tools for the acquisition of animal or plant objects, the violation of the order of purchase or sale of animal or plant objects, and others. The committee received many positive conclusions from public authorities and institutions, including its reasoned comments and suggestions from the experts of the Henprocuratorium, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, and the leading legal institutions of higher education. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine believes that the first reading of the bill can be adopted on the basis of observations and suggestions. Having examined the bill and agreed with the findings of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration, the Committee considers it possible to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that it be accepted on the first reading as a basis. To sum up, I would like to now vote on this bill in the first reading so that we can, on the second reading, scrutinize carefully how it fits in with the practice of law enforcement and further improve it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u114	Yes. Thank you. Are there those who are willing to share in the discussion? Yes. Besides Carmazin, don't others insist? The digger, the others, aren't they? Then, with your permission, do not insist, Karmazin, Prokopchuk, please, two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u115	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen, I have taken the floor because I have doubts that today the majority will vote in favour of this bill, and I want to ask you to vote in favour of this bill, because it is absolutely not political. We need to understand that today there is a situation where they violate the rules of hunting, including fishing, and the Forest Code, and including the case that Tomenko spoke of today, horrifyingly, did not refer to the name of our fellow MP, who passed through the biosphere reserve on a jeep and, loitering, showing everyone that he can do anything. No, there's not a prince in our country yet. Because we don't have a prince, any public environmental inspector has the right to stop such a citizen, whether it's a prince, and fine. To fine, to be held responsible for violations of the laws of nature. Because earlier, in those days, up to 30 percent of the protocols were made by public environmental inspectors. They were the ones who made it. We don't have them now. But look what the forests have become or what is left of them! The ones that haven't been handed out yet are private property. Although, I see, there's such a bill that it's all lobbied. It is also suggested that additional powers be given for various types of wrongdoing. Science-expert management in some way denies and says that there are many organs that have such powers. Ladies and gentlemen! I'd like to say one thing. You need as many organs as you can enforce the law! And the law is not enforced. This calls for the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u116	Yeah, that's an interesting logic. The more authority, the better. Dig in, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u117	Dear colleagues! I'm asking you to support this bill. And I would like to point out that there may not be a need for fines. It is the protection and warning of all the negative things that exist today. And that's electrolytes, that's another thing that's just the destruction of nature and fish resources, of the animal world. And as the previous speaker said, I would like to remind you that it was in the conditions that were before that that public assistants, inspectors, eigers that relied on such commitments. And I just want to tell you again and again that it's not the basis for any other structure to impose fines. And there was a structure that would prevent the destruction of nature, of the fish and of the animal world. So this law regulates, it's been through a lot of expertise. And I'm asking you to back him up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u118	Yes, the discussion is over. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences on Strengthening Measures from Nature Protection. Vote. [[5:48:55]] For-90 Not supported. It is suggested that the authors do the work. [[17:49:18]] Z-85 The bill was rejected. The factions. Region Party 3, BUTT 26, Our Ukraine 10, Communist 25, Reform 19, The People's Party didn't vote, non-fractional 2. We're looking at a draft law supplementing article 5 of the Ukrainian Act on Operational Search Activities on the Counterintelligence Protection of State Economics. [[Registration number 7517]] There's a short cut. [[17:50:06]] For 203 Decision taken. The reporter is Gennady Hennadyovich Moskal and Vladimir Romanovich Mosik. Please, who's going to report? The committee's offering to take it as a basis. The main scientific and expert office believes that the bill can be adopted as a basis. If there's no objection, I'll put it to a vote and ask for your support. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act supplementing article 5 of the Ukrainian Act on Operational Search Activities on the counterintelligence protection of the economy of the State. [[Registration number 7517]] Please vote. I'm not going after the reporter. I offered. None. I announced the committee's decision. [[17:51:11]] For-32 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. I am announcing for consideration the draft Act amending the Criminal, Criminal and Procedural Codes of Ukraine and the Code of Administrative Offences. [[on responsibility for violations of the organization's order and conduct of mass actions and mass disturbances]] [[Registration number 8033]] I'm betting on your motion to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[17:51:52]] For 203 Decision taken. The reporter is Ukrainian national deputy Yuri Karmazin, co-rapporteur Victor Shemchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u119	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! I asked who offered it, and Mr. Chechetov said, "We." I think you're not yet Santa II to tell us, and we need to get away from this because what you're doing in the state right now, I think you're going to need this bill sooner or later, you should read it carefully. Don't look at your minuses. The bill proposes to amend the Criminal Code of Ukraine, the Ukrainian Code of Criminal Procedure and the Code of Administrative Offences. Article 294 of Mass Upheaval proposes to be presented in a new edition, assuming responsibility for organizing mass disturbances combined with arson or destruction of property, grabbing buildings or buildings, forcibly evicting citizens, resisting authorities and using weapons or other items used as weapons, as well as active participation in mass disturbances. Exclude from. Part one of article 294 of the notion of "pogroms," which is covered by another way of committing this crime of destruction of property. Article 295 "Calls for Action that threaten public order" states in a new edition, changing its name and assuming that it is responsible for public appeals to mass riots combined with arson, destruction of property, seizure of buildings or buildings, forced eviction of citizens or armed resistance to the authorities. Article 341 "The Capture of State Buildings or Public Buildings" also introduces it in a new edition by changing its name. Complete article 185 prime. Ukraine's Code on Administrative Offences, Violations of Organizations, Meetings, Street Marches and Demonstrations, a new part of the third, which provides for administrative responsibility for violations of the organization's established order or the holding of meetings, rallies, street marches and demonstrations that have led to a violation of public transport, businesses, institutions or organizations, as well as active participation in such activities that have resulted in the effects indicated. In this regard, article 293 is proposed to be excluded as unnecessary if accepted.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u120	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u121	Ladies and gentlemen, this bill, which has not been passed today, therefore it has no political burden, it stands in the interest of the entire society. That's why I'm talking to you. We who have made the decision are short-circuited. Please raise your hand and your right hand properly, so they don't say, "Raise your hand, come out, uncle, because the coachman is tired." Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u122	Yes, the head of the committee's committee on law enforcement, Victor Schemchuk, will report on the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u123	Honourable Volodymira Mihajlovich, Honorary Fellows, Supreme Council Committee on Law Enforcement, discussed the draft Act on Amendments to the Criminal, Criminal and Procedural Codes of Ukraine and the Code on Administrative Violations. [[on responsibility for violations of the organization's order and conduct of mass actions and mass disturbances]] The purpose of the bill is to improve the provisions of the Criminal Code of Ukraine and the Code of Administrative Offences, in part, to clarify the grounds for responsibility for violations of the organization's order and the conduct of mass actions and mass disturbances. In spite of the positive developments, the bill needs substantial work, including specific definitions and clarifications of the content of the articles. It is unacceptable, in the Committee's view, that the use of evaluation standards, such as "aggressive disturbances in public order," "substantial disruptions in transport," and so on. Nor can we agree with the proposal to exclude article 293 of the Criminal Code from Ukraine — a group violation of public order, such as that in competition with articles 294, 296 and 341 of the Criminal Code. Although these articles have a similar subject, the composition of these crimes differs from article 293 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine on the basis of the objective and subjective side, so taking this proposal into account will lead to a failure in legislation. After reviewing the bill, the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that its subject be returned to the right of legislative initiative for further development. The same is true of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u124	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, if you would like to take part in this discussion, please sign in. Yes, please, the names of the national MPs. Mikhailo Chechetov, faction of the Party of Regions, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u125	God sees, he doesn't want to speak, but he'll have to speak. Dear Yuri Anatolyevich, do you know how different you are from us? In your mind, democracy is chaos, it's disorganization, it's a complete mess in the country. In our understanding, democracy is order, it is responsibility, it is discipline, it is compliance with the law, it is implementation of the Constitution. In your democracy, we will never rise from our knees. We are not what we will be in third-rate countries, we will be in ten-tier countries. In our democracy, we will certainly build a powerful, prosperous, free, democratic Ukraine. [[B in m in s a l in]] I suggest you support our democracy! And the law doesn't vote!
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u126	Yes, Yuri Carmazin, one minute. Then there's Andrew School.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u127	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to conduct a little elegance. The Code of Criminal Procedure establishes responsibility for a number of crimes that violate public order, such as group misconduct. At the same time, some of those articles that I called 293, 294, 95 provide for excessive criminalization of individual actions that affect public order. Some criteria are unclear. As a result, there is an article. and article 11 of the Criminal Code, which stipulates that it is not a crime of action, or of inactivity, which, although formally, contains the signs of any action provided for in this Code, but because of a lack of significance, does not constitute a social danger, i.e. it has not activated and could not cause significant harm. I want you to know that. And I want you and the entire Ukrainian people to know that not this actor who calls himself a court-martial tomorrow, but the Constitution of Ukraine in article 124, 129, 127 establishes that there is a jury court in Ukraine. Because if you pull a man, it's your democracy.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u128	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u129	Thank you. If you bring a person to court, please take 15 years of the Constitution, the direct act of the Constitution, you're violators, you're using the militia against the people and against them.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u130	Thank you. Thank you. Andrew School, "BUT" faction, "Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u131	These articles, which I want, absolutely right, I would like to stress once again, that it's absolutely right to humanize or decriminalize the author of the bill, it's a lacquer paper to be called. And for Stalin there was democracy, and in the royal Russia there was democracy, they called everything democracy, but the tool that you're trying to use to fight against those who don't share your views of democracy is understandable. The article, it's mass unrest, it's a rudimentary of Soviet law that has persecuted those who have caused mass disturbances in concentration camps, in gulags and concentration camps, and you're carrying this, unfortunately, into today's social life. Think of an article that, in principle, even authors viewed exclusively as discriminatory, an article that had to strengthen the regime. And you're not even shy about going out on the rostrum and supporting it. We'll see what's waiting for you, I hope.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u132	Dear National Deputies! The discussion is concluded, the conclusion of the committee: to return the subject to the right of legislative initiative for pre-processing, the conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Expert Directorate: the bill should be returned for further work. But according to the Rules again, I am voting on the proposal to adopt a draft law amending the Criminal Code, the Criminal Procedure Code and the Code of Administrative Offences. [[on responsibility for violations of the organization's order and conduct of mass actions and mass disturbances]] [[Registration number 8033]] Please vote. [[18:01:43]] For-58 The decision is not taken. I am voting on a proposal by the committee to return the bill to the subject of the right of legislative initiative to re-examine registration number 8033. Please vote. [[18:02:10]] For-44 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. Dear National Deputies! I'm announcing for consideration the draft Act amending article 15 of the Ukraine Film Act on the procedure for issuing a state certificate for the distribution and demonstration of films. Dear National Deputies! I was approached by the drafters of the bill with a letter regarding the departure, and I am asked to consider the bill without the support of the drafters. So, honourable colleagues, I'm putting to the vote a motion to consider the issue of a reduced procedure, and then there's going to be a report from the committee. [[18:03:02]] For 208 Decision taken. Correspondent is Head of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality, Vladimir Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u133	The world’s legal practice is that a bill is adopted. He's starting to work, tracking down some of his achilles five, ahilles five, ahilles five, ahilles five, ahilles five, ahilles five, some kind of hole that, let's say, gives him a chance of corruption, there's abuse, and so on. And it's later amended. We are this bill by Irina Heratchenko and Alexander Tretlyakiv, which can be seen as such. There's a motion picture bill, but it didn't work out the licensing mechanism for these movies to show and let them go for a drive. It simply did not count any of the realities of life. Because of this bill, it's more technical, it doesn't have any ideology. He regulates such things that for 10 days on a level playing field, moviemakers can take a license to rent a movie. If, for example, there is a need for this film to go through some kind of expertise, another 30 days are provided for all of this. It is very interesting to note that if movies promote war, if they promote pornography, violence, if they show disrespect for national and religious shrines, humiliation of personality, ignorance, disrespect for parents, as well as drug abuse, addiction, alcoholism, and other harmful practices, pornography movies, they have the right not to issue such a license. Because of that. It's a very necessary bill, it settles, even though we don't have the truth today of our own motion picture. But what's important is that even if it relates to foreign films there or in Russian this "widespread," where "beautiful cops solve all the issues" that you can just do, here. And we're talking about our movie. Our poetic film has long been forgotten, as it were. There is a need for this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u134	Yes, microphone, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u135	There is a need for this bill to be adopted. It's written and it'll be very simple and it'll work out positively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u136	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss? If there is, please sign in. Mikola Sherschun, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u137	Dear colleagues, in fact, the idea of the bill is not bad. Because the main components of the licensing process are clearly defined for the distribution and demonstration of the film, i.e. the specific terms of the licensing, the complete list of grounds for refusal and the elimination of the document of a permissive nature for the right to conduct mediated activities in the field of cinematography. Appropriate innovations clearly regulate the collaboration of film subjects with government authorities. But there is a note. The bill suggests that a state permit for the distribution and demonstration of films will be issued on a paid basis within 10 days of the submission of applications and other documents. That's right. But the project does not determine the size of the above-mentioned salary and how to set it up and count it. I think there is a need to address this issue in further work on the bill. I propose to adopt the bill in the first reading as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u138	Taras Blackwall, the Reform Group for the Future. Then there's Smitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u139	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished fellow national MPs! The position of our group on legislation in this area is as follows. Poetic film is beautiful. Poetic legislation -- probably not good, because it has to be a clear, well-written paragraph-by-paragraph, well-classified. That legislative provision that was in the Act on Cinematography in this field so far has, in fact, not brought in enough specifics. And that's why this bill is made with a clear specification, and it's in line with the Law on Allowance in Economic Activities, which is really necessary in legislation. The standards proposed by the bill are absolutely adequate. Termines are adequate. The direction on which the verification-control exercise is to take place, on the basis of which the refusal may be made, is also entirely consistent with the legislation of Ukraine. There are no subjective things. Although we feel that our group’s view would be good if the issue of morals was also clear enough. Well, for the time being, it dominates, unfortunately, in a creative way, we have an understanding that morals can rest in general, so that they don't break the laws. It's about the law and it's about the law. The rise of negative public passions, the propaganda of fascism, there, the split of the state, and so forth. Of course, such films should not be allowed. And it's a good thing it's all clearly classified here. With regard to the payment system that the previous reporter said, I think it might be added in the Final Positions or, in the extreme case, in my opinion, it could be quite calmly done in the same way in the regulations, the method of paying the expert's fees, the license does not necessarily have to be regulated by the law itself. So we're offering to take it as a base.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u140	Thank you. Just a minute. Gregory Smythuch, and then Vladimir Yavorowski of BUT.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u141	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. The pros system isn't always allowed to log in, so 1 minute. I would like to address Mr. Yavorowski, who says that this law regulates or does not regulate. As a consumer, and as a consumer, my family, my little children, every day on television screens, we feel how violence is promoted to our population, which is shown in movies, and then I ask, and where is the control of the committee that you are leading, Mr. Yavorowski? And what is the point of the state that's making us stronger today, our screens? And why it happened that violence, malice, military action and other negative phenomena that affect the formation of a young person are constantly on the screen, and why there are no curtains that prevent this violence from occurring in free space on our screens. So I think that this law does not provide enough for the very interests of our population, and I think that.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u142	Thank you. Vladimir Yavorowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u143	Dear colleagues, I suggest you put your weapons in the corner and come up completely calmly, really. There's a bill, most of the deputies who are understand perfectly that he regulates those things. What my colleague just said before me is this bill and it puts all the points above "and" in order to make fewer movies about violence right now. Licenses won't just be issued to the same TV. That's why we propose not to delay. In fact, the bill is complete. In it everything is almost in place. And this is where Chernobyl said exactly. If we just can't write instructions in the law, it could be, let's say, an internal document, a way to decide, let's say there's a question. The law gives, as it were, general ideology, a general direction. I propose once again, by the way, the Committee, the Ministry of Culture, is the Deputy Minister of Culture, Vladimir Mikhajlovich, fully supported to adopt the bill both on the basis and on the whole by one vote. He's needed and let it work.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u144	Dear National Deputies! Question completed. The committee proposes to adopt this non-political bill as a whole. I'd like your support. I am voting on the proposal of a committee on acceptance as a basis and in the whole of the draft Act amending article 15 of the Act on Cinematography concerning the procedure for issuing a state certificate for distribution, for the demonstration of films. Registration number 7029. On the basis and generally as a law. Please vote. [[18:12:25]] For 298 The law is passed. Thank you. Dear National Deputies! I suggest that you consider the draft Law on Disease Prevention, which is caused by the use of high-calorie foods with low levels of useful substances. But there are, here are, honourable colleagues, and a letter from the author about the transfer. And there is a decision by the committee on the return of the subject of the right of legislative initiative to work. Let's take a look at it and then figure out what to do. Right? I am voting on the issue of a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[18:13:11]] For 222 Decision taken. The rapporteur is the Secretary of the Health Committee, Lilia Stepanovna Grigorovich. Please, Lydia Stepanovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u145	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! The Health Committee reviewed the draft Law on Prevention of Diseases that resulted from the consumption of high - calorie foods containing low levels of useful substances submitted by the National MP, Alexander Socko. [[Registration number 4820]] And despite the relevance of the draft law’s problems of malnourished diet, it was not supported for the following reasons. First. The proposed draft law does not correspond to its name and does not have its own subject of regulation. The purpose of the bill is to prevent diseases that are associated with frequent and excessive use of high - calorie foods. However, the bill's proposed ways of achieving this goal will not produce the desired result, because the problem of eating rationally is not limited to the conditions of one of the types of public food companies, such as McDonald's, and even more so, that a large number of people, especially in rural areas, are virtually not using public food services. The reason for the deterioration of human health is not the calorieity of food but, above all, the way of life in general, diet, and diet in particular. Therefore, offering restrictive measures exclusively to one type of public food establishment will not have a significant impact on the prevention of allimentary diseases. A place where food is consumed cannot be a criterion for its harmfulness or usefulness. With regard to requirements for food composition, content, how to provide consumers with information about them, as well as production requirements, they are regulated by special laws today: "On safety and quality of food products", "On advertising." The same is indicated by the scientific and expert management of the unreasonable requirements set by the bill for the level of vocational education of staff in fast-food establishments and their facilities. The Chief Expert Office proposes to reject the bill. The review committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council that the draft law be amended.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u146	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u147	Mr. Sochka, who is here in this room, agreed to the bill. So decide the session hall for work or transfer.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u148	Ladies and gentlemen, a report has been made. Let's do it this way. Let's put it first in accordance with the Rules of Procedure for Adoption as a basis. If not, I will then make a proposal to the committee to return the subject to processing. If not, no, then the bill will be rejected. That's the sequence. No objections? I'm voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Law on Disease Prevention caused by the use of high-calorie foods with low levels of useful substances as a basis. [[Registration number 4820]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[18:16:36]] For-34 The decision is not taken. I am voting on a proposal by the committee to return the bill to the subject of the right of legislative initiative for pre-processing, registration number 4820. I'd like to make up my mind. [[18:17:04]] For-32 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. Ladies and gentlemen, you've been given a table for the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Code of Land. [[about bringing in with the Ukrainian Nadra Code]] It's a second reading. As planned, we postponed consideration of the bill because there was no final table. The rapporteur is the head of the Committee, Gregory Kaletnik. Let's do some repairs right away.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u149	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! The committee has considered a piece of legislation that is needed because, in fact, we have both peacocks and burns and are not used properly. Therefore, the deputies who instituted the bill did quite a bit of work for agriculture. And we've taken into account, we've practically considered all of the 2 weeks of amendments that have come and there are 7, of them 6 amendments counted, 1 amendment number 4 rejected. The final draft of the bill proposed by the committee is given in the fourth column of the comparative table. As a result of the review, the committee proposes that the bill be adopted in the second reading and generally as a law. And then there's one more request, and I'm on it. 1 Amendment Melnik, Bevanko - accounted for if there are no objections. So we're going to 2nd. That's the 2th amendment, we just made a deal with author 2 of the amendment, and we actually took it into account in part. But I wanted to make this amendment and I ask you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, to place this amendment for confirmation. Because that's part of it that we've been destroying one of the ways to solve the problems of peatlands that have the depth of laying down a peat right up to one metre. So I'd like to put it on confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u150	I'm betting on vote 2 of the amendment to confirm it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u151	To leave the first line, the first line, it is. [[18:19:35]] For -6
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u152	Z-6. Correction not supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u153	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u154	Yes, the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u155	Number 3 — Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u156	Just a minute. The amendment is not included in the Lawn. The author insists on her? No, it's not. All other amendments are included.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u157	No, it's not. Counted.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u158	Ladies and gentlemen, the committee suggests that we accept it as a law in the second reading. The principal legal administration has observations that the committee disagrees with. That's why I put the committee's second reading and, as a whole, the bill of the draft law on amendments to the Ukrainian Code of Land. [[about bringing in with the Ukrainian Nadra Code]] [[Registration number 8238]] Please vote. [[18:20:26]] For 256 The law is passed. Thank you. A draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine on informing the population about the content of genetically modified organisms in food is under consideration. [[Registration number 6251]] The reporter is Ukrainian national deputy Andrey Schlell. Correspondent is Secretary of the Health Committee Lily Stepanovna Grigorovich. I'm voting on a motion to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[18:21:06]] For 215 Decision taken. Andrew Vasilovich, please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u159	Ladies and gentlemen, as I understand it, this is about amending some laws on informing the population about the content of genetically modified food. In fact, it's an ancient story, it's been going on for a long time. I don't want here, by the way, Parliament, this is a political debate, we can now enter into a political debate, we can not enter into a political debate, and the truth is that if we move, and I can always hear from the mouth of today's authority that we're moving to Europe, not to another place, to Europe, to the European Union, then we really have to adopt European norms, European norms that ensure the honesty of demonstrations. When we claim that this product is 100% pure, it will be false. The European Union has then adopted a standard that is genetically pure from modified additives or organisms, which is a product that is pure for 99.1 years. And 0.9 percent, less than one percent, if there are other households, including genetically modified organisms, this product is considered clean. Because if there is a presence, and I think that the political career of many of our parliamentarians began in both medical and chemical institutions and in engineering higher education institutions, they remember that a hundred percent cannot be given, always 99.9. The same approach in Europe. And in order to open the trade between Ukraine and the European Union, so that our products can be exported and sold outside the European Union, and the European Union in Ukraine without undue problems, it is proposed to introduce the Ukrainian standard into European standards, 0.9 percent. That's the point of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u160	Thank you, Andry Vasilovich. Lilia Stepanovna Grigorovich, Secretary of the Health Committee
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u161	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! The Ukrainian National Deputy Bill 6251 proposes to cancel the requirement for mandatory labelling of GMO-labelled food products and to reflect information on genetically modified organisms with GMOs only in cases where the content of genetically modified organisms in the food product does not exceed 0.9 per cent of the total mass of the product per unit of packaging. This approach to labelling of food products is in line with popular international practice, as determined by the Health Committee. Nowhere in the world, either in the EU or in Russia or in the United States or in Canada or in other countries, is there a requirement for the consumer to be informed of the absence of GMOs. By the way, there has been a recent parliamentary assembly of Black Sea countries, a review of their legislation, and there is no such legislation, only we in Ukraine have such a thing. So sometimes when you take a bottle of mineral water or a bottle of vinegar and there without GMOs, you get a smile if you don't have one, at least our kids asked about it. The same is true for us in the Science and Experimental Authority, which proposes to support this proposal. The committee decided to support the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u162	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Is there a need to discuss matters? Please sign up. May I have the names of the people's deputies on the board? Taras Crnowil, MP for the Future, then Vladimir Carpuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u163	Please pass the word to Peter Petrovich Hashuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u164	Who? Peter Hassuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u165	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Today we have to solve the problem of simplifying food labelling for genetically modified organisms. Its essence is that the food label should indicate whether GMOs are present or not in food products only if the proportion of genetically modified organisms in the food product exceeds 0.9 percent of the total mass of the product in the package unit. This approach seems to be more perfect than it is now when food manufacturers and importers are obliged to mark "No GMOs" in branding everyone without the exception of food products, even in those where GMOs can't be in principle and they look absurd. It should also be noted that marking the absence of GMOs in line with European requirements will reduce the unreparable costs of enterprises and contribute to the entry of Ukrainian food producers into European markets. That's why the MP's Reforms Group for the Future is proposing to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u166	Yes, Vladimir Karpuk, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u167	Vladimir Karpuk, "Our Ukraine". There is a proposal to support, indeed, the legislative initiative of Andrija Vasilovich and to support those points that meet international standards. Although I don't see a great deal of trouble, because it says "no GMO" on Ukrainian products, even if it's 0.9 percent. But when we go to the European Union -- we support international principles -- we have to vote in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u168	Thank you. Gregory Smythuch, faction of the Party of the Regions. Oleg Zarubinsky will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u169	Gregory Smythuch, Party of Regions, Volin. I don't know where we're going? But I know exactly that 20 years ago our parents didn't even know what that word was? That's why they didn't eat it anymore. I don't know if you know, if you're watching a broadcast, that we have very many categories of products that can't be used at all. I don't know if you know that we don't have corn and soy without GMOs, and according to the food that goes on to grow shoes, eggs, milk, that's what we do. What's disappearing like the wind? It's being reborn into a product that consumes our population. I don't know if you know that one of the consequences of us having beer is that we can't eat 100 percent because there's such a formula that it affects the birth of children. And what you know is, if the beer is consumed from 12 to 16, the person between 12 and 16, the birth of children is very unlikely. I don't know if you know or not. So I'm saying that if there's a GMO, you have to draw a red tsetse fly and write in capital letters. We need to think about health and not destroy our population. Is this the program? So tell me it's a program. Control's open, border's open, and we're at each session: GMOs, GMOs, and we're not doing anything in the country, we're destroying the population.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u170	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u171	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Dear colleagues, I can ask you a few questions that we can obviously answer very easily. Please tell me, have any of you seen on any food today that there's a GMO content? See? Never. There is no product that should indicate the contents of GMOs. What is it? Who wants it not to be marked on the other side without a GMO? Those who produce food with all the content of genetically modified organisms. Because they're not comfortable when someone points out that there's no GMO here, and that's, frankly, getting a certain popularity, that's their competitive advantage, not their damage. On the other hand, who says more about what's absurd about water, where there's no protein, is it really written, "No GMOs," water producers? No, but anyway, there's five more letters on the label. They're not the ones who raise that question and say, "What absurdity." These questions are raised by those who produce products with a great deal of genetically modified organisms. So I repeat, I go back to my question. Why, today, when GMOs are to be noted, there is no product where this would be indicated. Because transnational corporations that are interested in bringing ingredients into Ukraine, and are ready to produce GMOs in order to dump them in Ukraine. Including, by the way, grain from some of the countries of the Pacific, which is completely, I don't know if it's 30 percent or 40 percent GMO. They want us to open the border. I'm asking you very much, let's think not only of ourselves, but of the next generation, and of the next generation, if they are after such laws are passed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u172	Ladies and gentlemen, the matter has been discussed. The committee proposes to adopt the bill as a basis. The main scientific and expert office is of the same opinion, namely that the bill can be adopted as a basis. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on informing the population about the content of genetically modified organisms in food. [[Registration number 6251]] Please vote. Please vote. [[18:31:51]] For-48 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. Ladies and gentlemen, we were to now consider Bills 7242, 7242-1. There is a request from the authors to align the draft laws with the Cabinet of Ministers, with the executive authority, to postpone the consideration of these bills. No objections?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u173	Thank you. Dear National Deputies, I propose to you the draft Act amending article 33 of the Ukrainian Law on "On Public Compulsory State Pension Insurance" concerning the size of the disability pension. [[Registration number 7437]] The rapporteur is Head of the Committee’s Subcommittee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons, Mikola Georgievich Kulczynski. Short cut? I'm betting on the vote on this proposal. Please vote. [[18:33:04]] For 211 Decision taken. Please, Mikola Georgievich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u174	Honourable Volodymyr Mihajlovich, honourable members of the national parliament, the bill deals with the elimination of certain injustices against working persons with disabilities, since disabled persons are entitled, if they are 25 years old and 20 years old, to choose a disability pension with the size of an old-age pension. And working people with disabilities who, despite the conditions that exist in Ukrainian society, have to be honest, the Ukrainian State is trying to do something, but it has not done much to make the disabled of different categories feel confident in our society. Because a working disabled person, when a disabled person is working, is more deserving than the efforts of our society. And because he has no right to receive a disability pension the size of an old-age pension, it is his discrimination. It's not enough that a person has an incentive, that works, that we eliminate this stimulus for work. As a result, the committee reviewed the bill and suggested that it be adopted in the first reading. The adoption of the bill will allow the second, third, group members to take into account their existing insurance and the duration of the period of payment of insurance contributions to the general government pension insurance. Such an approach will restore social justice in relation to this category of pensioners and in some ways reduce the social tension that has arisen among the disabled in connection with the implementation of pension reform. The Committee on Budget Issues proposes to adopt the January 1st Bill to be put into effect as of January 1, 2012. And it will be right and in accordance with the law. All of these fears, which were written by the analytical government, they don't, to me, match the reality, the meaning and content of this bill. I ask the deputies to support the decision of the Committee on Pensioners, Disabled Persons and Veterans and vote in favour. I especially ask the majority who care for the Ukrainian people for their social well-being.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u175	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u176	I'd like to support you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u177	Thank you. Dear colleagues, have you got the offer? Who insists on the discussion? Are there no wanters? Mikhailo Chechetov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u178	You know, this morning a new star in the political sky, a new leader of the united opposition Arsenius Yatzenuk said that he says we need to adopt systems bills, systems, systems! I think you can agree with that, just like the first one I started with. Therefore, I think that what is proposed should be supported. But in a systemic context. And we will be supporting him on Thursday in the new pension law. Not by tearing some part of it out of there, but today, I don't understand how to implement it. So thank you for your offer. There's a problem. We'll decide on Thursday in this room. I hope that this half of the room will also be present when we adopt the pension law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u179	Dear National Deputies! The committee proposes to adopt the bill as a basis. The main scientific and expert management considers it appropriate to recommend rejecting the bill. I am voting on a regulatory proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending article 33 of the Ukrainian Law on general government pension insurance on the size of the disability pension, please vote. [[Registration number 7437]] [[18:37:15]] For-48 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. Dear National Deputies! The draft Law on Prevention of Discrimination against Older Persons and Older Persons in Ukraine has been introduced into your consideration, and the request to consider it in a simplified manner has been made. [[Registration number 7224]] I'm putting this motion to a vote. Please vote. [[18:37:49]] For 218. Decision taken. The rapporteur is Oleg Zarubin National Deputy of Ukraine. Correspondent: First Deputy Head of the Committee on Human Rights, National Minorities and National Relations, Victor Terrence.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u180	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Honourable Volodymyr Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues, the drafting of the Law on the Protection of the Rights of the Elderly is based on the principles of the United Nations Organization regarding the elderly, the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights of the United Nations, the Charter of Older Persons of the MPA SND, a series of other instruments that contain provisions for the prevention of discrimination against the elderly. The bill consists of Preamble and 27 articles which first establish the scope of legislation to prevent discrimination against older and older persons. Second, they define the term "a person of old age" and "a person of older age." Thirdly, they create conditions for combating discrimination against older and older persons; they define basic principles, objectives, basic orientations, the competence of public authorities in the field of public policy to prevent discrimination against older and older persons; they provide for the participation of public organisations in the formation and implementation of public policies to prevent discrimination against older and older persons; they finally contain mechanisms to prevent discrimination against older and older persons in particular areas of social life. Dear colleagues, I will not dwell in detail on the content of the bill, it consists of 27 articles, it is large. It touches many different areas, where in society, in economic life, in social life, in life, people are discriminated against in life, who are no longer, we will not say, young. After 45 years, we have 20 million people. And you know very well that after 45 years, it's very difficult, perhaps impossible, to find a job; that at 60 years of age it's very difficult to get insurance; that at 70-75 years of age it's very difficult for an ambulance to get a person who's 75 years old to get to a hospital. I know.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u181	Yeah, finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u182	I know that the general opinion is negative enough about this bill. I realize there's a lot of flaws in it, because it's not a change to the law, it's a system-wide document. But I wanted to point out by this bill that we have age-based discrimination. You can vote whatever you want, I understand that, but the problem remains. Anyway, if you are.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u183	Thank you. Victor Terrence, please, the first deputy head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u184	Victor Terrence, Timoshenko Street. Dear Mr. Head, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! On February 17, 2011, at its meeting, the Human Rights Committee reviewed the draft Law on Prevention of Discrimination against Older Persons and Older Persons in Ukraine, introduced by the Zarubinsky and Shershun National Deputies. The purpose of the bill is to eliminate the gaps in current legislation, which leads to age discrimination for elderly and elderly persons in Ukraine. The bill defines the concept of “discrimination of older and older persons”, defines the orientations of public policy to prevent discrimination against the category of persons mentioned, the competence of the public authorities in this area, and provides mechanisms for protection against discrimination. According to most committee members, the issue of respect for the rights of elderly and elderly citizens in all spheres of society is very relevant to our state. Indeed, it is very easy to see. Well, please take any newspaper where there's an announcement about what people are hiring. It's going to say, let's say, 40 or 45 years. This is a flagrant violation of the Constitution. Right here, the Zarubinsky MP, try to call an ambulance, they'll ask you 10 times on the phone, how many years is it for one person or another? Today, a so - called pension reform begins in the country. The pension reform, which will mean that many people will have to look for work somewhere, will not be enough to make a living because we are not talking about the main thing that the introduction of this pension reform will reduce objectively on pension payments, and so here, to relearn, will resist retirement age again. In a country where it's covered, I'm telling you, it wasn't from the committee, it wasn't in a country where you relearn to be 40 or 50 years old, it was very difficult. It's a completely humane law. I don't agree with Zarubinski that he's a bad person in society. He'll take a good look at society. I'm asking you to back me up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u185	Dear colleagues, the very idea is obviously right, because most of us here in the hall are already at the top of the slope of the years, and we should also think that with those people who are young and unbecoming and no one wants to take a job and do not want to communicate. Everyone wants to deal with young people, right? So let's take this as a base, work and see what we're going to get on the way out. The very idea, it's the right one, and the drafter of the bill says there's a lot of problems there that need proper work. So I'd like to ask you to support, to adopt this bill as a basis, and then life will direct us how to act. I'm voting on the committee's proposal. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, now we've got a discussion, but we've got enough. Please, please. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm voting on a proposal for adoption based on a draft anti-discrimination law for elderly and elderly people in Ukraine. [[7224]] Well, young man, what are you talking about? Here. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please. Take off the vote, please. Yuri Carmazin. And then. No, one, one, respected colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u186	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, since I know that the coalition has written a minus there under this law, I would like to point out that the law is very right and necessary, Mr. Oleg. And I want to thank you. And especially for writing such good articles: and protecting the rights of older and older persons to an adequate standard of living. So I would like to remind you that we, the people's deputies, have now examined in depth the changes to the Ukrainian State Budget Act, which were introduced a few days ago and signed immediately on June 14th and signed immediately by the President, I call upon those who will not support it, and I urge you to support all this law now, then to sign the constitutional application to the Constitutional Court. We've done it, and I'm asking you, I have it, you can come up and say, a project, so it's not a populism, it's what we're protecting these people. I think it's the right name for this law to prevent discrimination against older people. And it's this discrimination, it's being cultivated in the media, in the newspapers, in the circles, in the advertisements. That's not supposed to happen. All the individuals in the Constitution are equal, and this is the main thing in this bill, for which I thank my colleague Zarubinski. And if it wasn't understood by those who put a minus or a dash in the President's Secretariat, or those who are in the government with Lavrinovich's mouths, I wouldn't take the floor right now, believe me. Well, I've got enough work to do once in a while. I just want to turn to your conscience. Please, I know that you have written down the law, and I want you to adopt it in the first reading and to eliminate discrimination. This is the way to Europe, this is the way to God, if you will. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u187	Thank you. Yes, Yuri Prokopchuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u188	Yuri Prokopchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u189	Dear colleagues, I ask you all to speak. Don't teach me how to live. You better help me pass the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u190	Yes, and materially help older ones, whom you are today, by the way, are transferring an even larger portion of the women who are now younger than five years old. So, of course, I want to say right now that, against the backdrop of the political repression that is taking place in the country, against the backdrop of the political persecution that is going on, at least think about the ones they are talking about forever. Because it's already been said that soon the audience in this room will also be in this category. That a lot of people who, for example, served in the Armed Forces in other power structures, and now you're sending them away for retirement even further, they're coming and no one needs them. So, of course, the bill is very valid and needs to be supported. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u191	Please, the Taras Blackwall MPs, then Gregory Smythuch.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u192	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear National Colleagues National Deputies! You see, it would be very soft to express yourself if there were not a little bit of this statement by some of the deputies who provoked, frankly, a more negative attitude toward this law. We have, in fact, a large number of older people, a large number, just somehow the same speaking up when it comes to the rise of retirement age in another law, they tell us right now that we don't have a retirement age. So first of all, you're going to figure it out with each other. The other one. You have to help people of retirement age in pension legislation, in social services legislation, in other areas of legislation, this law, let's do the same, I'm going to introduce a bill tomorrow to make everyone happy, rich and healthy. And I'm going to demand that everyone vote in favour. Who is opposed to all being happy, rich, and healthy? Probably nobody. But no one's going to vote in favour, because they're going to realize that none of this is going to be happier, richer and healthier. In this law, a good name is a good, good idea for the soul, and in implementing it, unfortunately, it's nothing. That's not going to do anything -- starting from what we think is not justified by the distinction between citizens and "summer" and "old" people. It is incomprehensible how this law, rather than selective legislation, regulate equal election rights. They are predictable, equal electoral rights and should not be amended by the Electoral Law, which, for example, limits the possibility of voting at home for older persons. And it was those people who were now doing the most for this law -- against it, they were doing the most. How are we going to force the elector to choose both young and old equally -- there are also many questions? So I think it's a good declaration, let's take it as a declaration. But as the law does not feed the pensioners and give them extra work, they will seek more stringent, more sophisticated ways to free those who would be protected by this law. Let's think about how to increase the number of jobs so that these people are needed.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u193	Thank you. Gregory Smythech, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u194	Thank you, Volodymyr Mikhailovich! I disagree with the previous speaker for the very reason that the issue is in our country, the question is in our state, and thank God that we sometimes pay attention to it. I don't agree with this position that we have to discuss this in a simplified way, because if we think only by reason of reason, then maybe by math. But if someone has a heart, we should also consider those who need it, including in defense of it. Of course, if we had such a perfect place in the country, if we were to treat our elderly citizens with respect, providing them with the necessities of life that are now urgent to them, there is no doubt that this bill is unnecessary, as is much more. If anyone says that we're going to solve everything for our pensioners, I don't agree. Because we do not cultivate respect for the elderly in the younger generation. Take the basic question. Did you see in public transport that we have respect for the elderly? And I agree with Vladimir Mikhailovich that we should all be there. Well, if we're secure, well, if we have kids behind us, fine, if we create conditions. What about those who are unable to do so for various reasons, how can they be today? How do they live in this race today, when we're only math, but we're not guided by others. When we lack the heart and soul in society, including the protection of the rights and freedoms that our part of our citizens need. I will support this bill. And I think it needs to be discussed and put in society, that this problem is and needs to be cultivated in our young generation in order to treat our populations with respect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u195	Ladies and gentlemen, the matter has been discussed. I think, dear fellows, everyone has already made up their minds about making a decision. I think everyone thinks that part of us thinks we're gonna be bosses forever. We won't be forever. This is the first time. Secondly, honourable colleagues, if the laws "fed" as here were to say that this law, if adopted, "satted," so I think every day they would print laws that would "fed" people. Well, that's absolutely, I think, the wrong question. Dear colleagues, this is a proposal for a framework law. Let's remember, we all applauded and applauded the Law on the Principles of Internal and External Politics. What's it say? Did you read it? There are the right directions for the declaration of approaches that are proposed here. We just don't want to go beyond that and realize that it's not a political decision, it's a proposal that is to draw attention to this problem, to get attention. That we have an ageing society and that people are being thrown out of all spheres of social life. Here's what we're talking about. But I understand that the positions are already defined here. And to call, something to drive me crazy, I think, absolutely without results. But the idea itself is the right approach. Look at this. If you take all the Western laws, they're exactly the same, they're declarant, but there's an understanding of the role and meaning of the law. But I don't think we should waste energy. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Law on Prevention of Discrimination against Older and Older Persons in Ukraine. [[Registration number 7224]] Please vote. [[18:54:59]] For-95 The decision is not taken. I'll tell you what, dear colleagues, maybe something you shouldn't have said. I guess tomorrow we'll have to train everyone where the decisions are made, right? Then let us understand that at least there is corporate solidarity, if we call it parliamentary majority. I think we need to train tomorrow, then we can vote on all the laws. The factions, please. Region Party 11, "BUT" – "Fathership" – 25, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 11, communists – 25, "Reforms for the Future" – 0, National Party – 20, non-fractional – 3. The draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on the Free System of Economic Activities is being announced for consideration. [[completed]] Is that what you're suggesting? Please, I'm putting this motion to the vote. [[18:56:06]] For 207 Decision taken. The rapporteur is Head of the Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship, Natalia Jurijovna Královska, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u196	Dear Vladimir Mihajlović, distinguished colleagues, I propose to your attention the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation in connection with the adoption of the Law on the Business Authorisation System. [[No.7065]] You and I considered the bill a few weeks ago, but when we adopted the second reading, we could not settle the nominees without 116 articles of the Rules. The Committee has therefore finalized the bill and has done its utmost to adopt a bill that will implement the Law on the Business Authorisation System, which was adopted several years ago and guarantees transparency and the lack of corruption in the issuance of permits. Unfortunately, this law does not work. It does not work because the law does not comply with other laws, so there is a legislative conflict, and each ministry in its relevant laws establishes its own rules that are contrary to the Permit Act. We have therefore passed a technical bill amending the Law on the Protection of Air, on Animal Peace, on Vegetation, on Pesticides and Agrochemicals, on Waste and on the Law on the Beautiful Book of Ukraine. I repeat that the law is technical. Its aim is to improve legislation and bring it into line with the law on the permit system. If the bill is adopted, we will definitively establish a rule that the need to obtain permits is determined solely by one law. That a permit authority authorized to issue them is established by one law. Finally, we will implement one part of deregulation reform. Please adopt this bill in first and second reading as a law.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u197	Dear National Deputies! Please sign up for the performance. Vladimir Karpuk, then Taras Crnovil. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u198	Please pass the word to Kseniya Mikhailni Lapini.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u199	Xenia Lupina’s microphone
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u200	Xenia Lapina, Party "For Ukraine!" Dear colleagues, I believe that this law must be supported because I really want to pay attention. The law on the legal system has been in place for almost five years. And we still make special laws in line with it. Although we all had it with you and the governments a few years ago. So the sooner we get in line, the sooner we sort out all the special permits, the more transparent and clearer the business climate in Ukraine will be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u201	Taras Blackwall, MP's Reform for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u202	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues of the national deputies, regarding this law. It fits the logic that has been passed through a number of bills that we have successfully adopted today in the Supreme Council. That is to translate from legal acts to the level of law, to actually codify by collecting in one relevant document, all of which are now different principles, views, interests, arbitrary procedures. In our group's view, it's really a logical completely move that will help, first of all, not even entrepreneurs, but the authorities, the Cabinet of Ministers to put order in those areas, where today, too far, corruption, permissiveness and so on are flourishing. So in this case, it seems to me that the logic for adopting this law should be, in the first place, the factions of the majority, because, in fact, this law fits, in addition to what it codifies, it adds to the legislative sphere what is now illegal, it is also going further in the process of taking decisions today. Therefore, in our view, it would be logical, indeed, to accept, in accordance with the principles set out by the President in his statements and by the Prime Minister, which should first be ordered in the country. As it is known, since fish rots from their heads, order, first of all, should be stated in the line of action, forcing officials to work properly under the same rules, not to make rules separately for themselves. That is why it really makes sense to vote in favour of this law. And as for the past law and how many people had a reaction to it, you know, tomorrow will be Wednesday, there will be framework beautiful laws that don't produce any concrete results, but they look beautiful and they really set fine principles. Let's see how they get voted for tomorrow. Our group will support some of them. Whether those who have criticized us today will support them, we will see. And that's the law we're proposing to support.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u203	Ladies and gentlemen, the matter has been discussed. I'm betting on the committee's proposal for a vote, which coincides with the conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Expert Authority on the adoption of the project on the basis of registration number 7065. [[19:02:14]] For-54 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. A draft Act amending article 116 of the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the drafting of draft laws is being announced for consideration. The suggestion to consider this issue in a simplified way. [[19:02:45]] For 193 Decision taken. The rapporteurs are Ukrainian national deputies Natalia Kraljevska and Yuri Karmazin, and the co-rapporteur is the head of the Committee of Vladimir Makenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u204	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! We have just seen reforms systematically go through when a technical bill designed to regulate the law on the licensing system falls under the basic law on permitting reform. So we really understand how we got all the bribes and bribes on the permits, as corruption flourished there, so it's going to go on. I propose to anyone who is willing to introduce it from the Party of the Regions, take it, introduce it, but adopt a law that will finally resolve the activities of the licensing authorities. Now for Bill 7537. Our Supreme Council adopts tens of thousands of laws, and then you and I are surprised, and why don't people get better at living? I can say that in the last nine months you and I have passed laws that would allow investors to come and improve the business climate in the country as much as 20 years of independence have not been adopted. Unfortunately, none of these laws are working today because it requires refinement because it requires consistency with other legislative acts because it requires the issuance of sub-laws. Unfortunately, they're all dead weights. So investors from the country are running away, business in the country is closing, and we've reported with you: laws are passed by brilliant ones. Therefore, after examining the situation, I propose that the 116 article of the Rules be repealed, which does not allow the first reading of the bill to be finalized for second reading. As a result, we are enacting hybrid laws, which then require that they be clarified and harmonized with other legislation, and as a result, we will see the situation as it has now been under the previous law. The Authorisation System Act does not work for two years because it is technically incomplete with other legislation. I therefore ask for the support of Bill 7537.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u205	Yuri Carmazin, please, regarding Bill 7537-1.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u206	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen, please think about what we've done. Right now she's speaking now. I've told you this before that we have restricted ourselves our constitutional powers. Contrary to the Constitution. Another question is, What can I tell anyone about this today? And what did we do? Today, I had seven drafts of drafts for today. A lot of them are accepted. What are these laws? Have you analyzed them? These are the butterfly laws in most of his: in what eight words did the President put from the whole???? And so on and so forth. Where's the complexity, where's the system, where's the system, where's the codification? They all contradict each other. Who will deal with this number of laws today? Nobody. So we deliberately got rid of it. It's through article 116 of the Rules of Procedure Act. As a result, I propose that the deputies be restored to their powers, that the rights of the subjects be restored to the people's deputies that they had to adopt before the adoption of this Regulation as a law to make proposals and amendments necessary to resolve the contradictions between the provisions of the draft amending the original legislative act adopted by the Supreme Council on the basis and the position of this or other original legislative acts. So I'm going to propose a specific proposal on how to write this down. But, ladies and gentlemen, I am confident that I will live until I am with you on 40 codes. But to that end, it is necessary not to lobby, as the group of Firtash performed a successful operation today, and I do not remember such a special operation when glass factories, institutions immediately became property and immediately passed the law. It's a brilliant operation, a corrupt operation, it's going to Europe. I'm asking you to uphold the law, even though I know what's in there.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u207	Thank you. Alexander Kozub of the Committee on Rules, Deputy Ethics and Security of the Supreme Council of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u208	Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! To carry out the mandate of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine as of 10 January 2011, the Committee at its meeting on 11 May 2011 reviewed the draft Act of Ukraine amending article 116 of the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, introduced by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Royal Natalia Jurijovna. [[on the preparation of draft laws]] [[Registration number 7537]] The bill proposes to amend part one, article 11, article 116 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, by the decision of the Main Committee to the text of a bill adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the basis of proposals and amendments may be made to resolve conflicts between the provisions of the bill and the provisions of existing legislative acts, or to establish a mechanism for the implementation of legal norms that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopts on the basis of. It is also proposed to extend the scope of proposals and amendments to the text of the bill adopted by the Supreme Council in the first reading. The committee, after commenting on a number of comments, noted that in the event of the adoption of the proposed amendments, the possibility of making any proposals and amendments to the draft legislation was essentially open. It also allows for a change in the outcome of the first reading of the bill. In such a case, the adoption of the bill by the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the first reading will be based on formality and the division of the legislative procedure in stages will become meaningless. In view of the above, the Committee adopted the conclusion of the proposed bill and decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in accordance with article 114, paragraph 2, of the First Rule of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, that it should be rejected. Please be supportive. With respect to Bill 7537-1. The bill proposes to amend part one of article 116 of the Rules, which provides for the possibility of making proposals and amendments to the text of a bill adopted in the first reading necessary to resolve the contradictions between the provisions of the bill and the provisions of this and other primary legislative acts necessary for the implementation of the legal norms adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The Committee agreed with the view of the Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to present the text of the second sentence of part one of article 116 of the Rules in a different edition, while the proposed text does not provide for possible abuses. Because we don't know what contradictions and what mechanisms can take place. In the view of the committee, it should be made clear that the Supreme Council of Ukraine, when adopting the bill in the first reading, had to determine exactly what contradictions needed to be removed and what mechanisms to be proposed. In view of the above, the committee adopted the conclusion of the draft Ukrainian Law and decided to recommend to the Supreme Council, in accordance with article 114, paragraph 3, of the First Rule of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, that it should be returned to the subject of the right of legislative initiative for further development. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u209	Thank you. Dear colleagues, if necessary, please sign up for the discussion. Yes, please, the names of the national MPs. Gregory Smythuch, Party of Regions. Then Karpuk and Rybakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u210	Thank you. Gregory Smythuch, Party of Regions. You know, there are certain committees that we are all experienced, by education, by habits, by knowledge, we have some experience that allows us to do one or the other. The point of view is to express by law or by law. And, of course, no one else, if there are people working on the profile committee who have all the data they need to tell whether it's appropriate for society or not, it's important for the state, it's important, of course, that the committee should have this opportunity. And surely all the restrictions that apply to article 116 of our Rules must be resolved in some way. In fact, consider that there are a lot of documents on our schedule. And of course, each one of us can't handle them. How am I supposed to vote? I have to vote after I have the opportunity to ask a question, get an answer, and have to listen to the statements of the experts on the subject. And then I have to vote with my heart and my mind. And if I don't have the option, because we have a reduced procedure. In general, let's not discuss the issue at all, just vote. So how am I supposed to vote to accept justice for our society, in my opinion, a decision? And I can't accept it because I don't have that option. Then let's do it. If that's not possible, we'll give it to the profile committee. There they can come and prove their point of view, and there they can be expanded to include matters that touch upon a particular law. I particularly support this bill and will vote for it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u211	Vladimir Karpuk, please. And then there's the Chapel.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u212	Mr. Volodymyr Mihajlovich, Honourable People's Deputies, I received today's draft Decree 8742 under the authority of the Head of the Supreme Council of Vladimir Lithuania, the Deputys and the First Deputy to hold parliamentary hearings on the subject "The legislative process in Ukraine. Organization issues and ensuring that the needs of the state and society are met." Let us, from this point of view, look at the bill's decrees, both of which were passed today by the Royal and Carmazin People's Deputies. Is it in line with the needs of society and the State to improve the Rules of the Supreme Council and Article 116, which overly regulates amendments and proposals to legislative acts? Because we see that the actual legislative process in Parliament needs improvement. Because we often take too many important laws for a brief discussion, quickly, further, limit the time for submission of proposals, and so there are often situations where we should be amending the legislation already adopted. A clear example is the Tax Code. Even three - volume comments have been made, and again almost every week we make amendments. That's why both the proposal of both Carmazin and the Royal to change to article 116 of the Rules, and the scientific and scientific management, that also makes sense in their conclusions. And we need to adopt a bill, say Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin as a basis, and that's exactly what we're going to do, and a parliamentary hearing in December 2011. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u213	Thank you. Vladimir Caplienko, faction, MP group, Reforms for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u214	Thank you very much, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, you know, the MP's Reforms for the Future yesterday, on the expert board, there's been a run in which direction we should go, or support or not support. As a member of the regulatory committee, I have defended the position that there is in Parliament, first and foremost, the quality of each legislative act, regardless of the procedure in which it is being followed. If some MPs may allow themselves to be considered by the Parliament of garbage, which would be contrary to existing legislation that is not worked out, which has no basis, how can we, in general, or by what procedure, settle this matter? But this is not possible by inserting it into the 116th or 180th or the 5th article of the Ukrainian Act in force on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The second question. There are other things you need to pay attention to. The confusion of preparation between the first and the second readings. When we don't have the text of the bill! If the MP factions can't even identify, where should we go, where should we run? This is a violation of the Rules that must be brought to an end. Well, third. If we don't have a clear procedure to which we can't, we won't allow every MP who wants to remove his nose in order to limit the right to consider a bill, we'll be able to see you when we can't do anything at all. I would like to say that we, as representatives of the MPs of Reform for the Future, will not support such changes. And we will support the thesis on the preservation of the status quo of the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, without any changes, especially those that are scarce. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u215	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have completed our consideration of the matter. Why did the legislator, I mean those who drafted the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, introduce article 116? It's very simple. If the author is preparing a bill, he should either prepare a whole text or modify an article. And article 116 does not allow a deputy or other subject of the right of the legislative initiative to walk in all sides of his broad soul. Because we have a proposal for one article, and then during the second reading, they lobby everything they consider necessary and break the legislation. Therefore, no one interferes with the bill’s MP, taking into account and predicting all necessary changes and additions in line with the suggestions he makes. So it's clearly a premeditated question. And the second. One of the deputies complained that he could not understand the session room without listening to everyone. So I think that the national MP is a national MP to work on the laws and come to the session hall, already having a clearly defined point of view and position, not to come, when someone heard what they said, and immediately to vote. Your Honor, we're sitting for two weeks a month, and all the rest is for a deputy to work and prepare to make the right decisions. Now for a relatively reduced procedure. Dear colleagues, listen. And now for the procedure of the abbreviated. Please tell me, if, by insisting on factions, the Cabinet of Ministers and Deputies, we include 150 questions for the plenary week, how to consider them, a fellow official, only on short notice, only on the condition that the committees are working on the laws, and we will deal with them accordingly. And committees will sit when necessary, not on their knees. So come on, work on the committees. Dear National Deputies, in accordance with the Rules, I am voting on the proposal to adopt a draft Act amending article 116 of the Ukrainian Act "On the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine". 7537. [[19:19:56]] For-25 The decision is not taken. I'm voting on the second proposal for adoption as the basis of the bill's registration number 7537-1. The author is Yuri Karmazin. [[19:20:24]] For-25 The decision is not taken. Bills are rejected. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose to you a draft law amending some of the legislative acts relating to administrative justice. [[Registration number 8034]] Suggestion: To consider the matter under reduced procedure. [[19:20:55]] For-198 Decision taken. The reporter is Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin. Please, Yuri Anatolyovich. And we also have one more bill left, dear colleagues, and that's all. Please, Yuri Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u216	Four minutes then.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u217	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. I'll report to the committee today, too. And I'll probably start with the committee's decision. The Committee of the Supreme Council on Justice considered at its meeting on 6 April a bill amending some of the legislative acts on administrative justice submitted by the People's Deputy Karmazin. [[No. 8034]] The bill is designed to ensure the implementation of administrative judicial tasks in the timely and qualitative handling of cases aimed at protecting the rights, freedoms or interests of natural persons, the rights and interests of legal persons in the field of public and legal relations in respect of infringements by subjects of public authority. For this purpose, it is proposed to amend articles 20, 21, 22, 52, 69, 81, 87, 100, 102, 106, 107, 108, 109, 122, 183-2, 170, 182, 183, 186, 187, 193, 195-1, 197, 198, 212, 214 prime, 220, 223, 227, 230, 252, 254 of the Code of Administrative Justice. Completing the Code with new articles: 93 p.m. It's 189 rpm. And delete sub-paragraph "b" in article 3, paragraph 1, of the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers' Decree on State Customs. After examining the draft law and the expert conclusions added to it, we consider it necessary to make observations and suggestions to individual positions. In accordance with Part Three of the Constitution, the adoption of new laws does not limit the content and scope of existing rights and freedoms. At the same time, a number of changes and additions are such that they reduce the amount of procedural rights of persons who take part in the case, such as the provision of a bill for the submission of evidence to persons who take part in the case before the commencement of the trial, the requirements for the filing of an application made only in a printed manner, the modification and completion of an appeal only prior to the commencement of the proceedings. In addition, the bill provides for amendments to the rules governing the determination of a number of related requirements. [[Article 21 BAS of Ukraine]] The draft law proposes to supplement the SASA with a new article 93 prime, entitled “Information and technical security costs”, to article 86, 106, 187, 212, a provision for mandatory payment by the plaintiffs of these costs in connection with the trial of the courts of the first appeals hearing. Section 4 of one draft law provides for part of the first article 52 to be supplemented by sentences to which the court of the first instance may rule out the answer to the case by establishing that only one respondent must respond by the administrator, but the applicant in the late application as the defendants indicated several subjects of authority. I draw your attention, just to the conclusion of an extremely large committee, but the committee concludes that the Supreme Administrative Court also supports the bill, subject to the mandatory consideration of its proposals and observations. After considering the bill and the expert conclusions, the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council a draft of the Ukrainian Act amending certain legislative acts on administrative jurisdiction to be adopted on the first reading as a basis. Dear National Deputies! Obviously, it's hard in a short period of time to report a bill in which I tried to get a comprehensive approach to the amendments to the Code of Administrative Justice. So I hope that you will vote in favour of the first reading and then we will work together on this bill, although we could go along with it to make 30 bills or 30 articles, this is the way everyone is going today.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u218	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. Dear colleagues! Please sign up for the discussion if there is such a need when there is no vote. Gregory Smythuch, faction of the Party of the Regions. Next is George Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u219	Volodymyr Mikhailovich! I didn't want to play, but one line. sitting. First.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u220	Please, either you're speaking in substance, or I'm forced under the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u221	The chairman has no right to comment on the speakers.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u222	Open the microphone, please. I'm not commenting, I'm just taking stock of the Rules. Please, Yuri Carmazin. Yes, please. Yuri Carmazin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u223	Vladimir Mikhailovich, I'm a man of justice, I wanted to say what I couldn't say. But since Gregory Smythech couldn't say, I'm giving the word Gregory Smythech. Mr. Gregory.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u224	I want to tell you again, Yuri Anatolovich, when considering a reduced procedure, there is no right to speak. Please, Jaroslav Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u225	Dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u226	Jaroslav Suhi. Please don't interrupt. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u227	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I ask five seconds to add, these reverents, I had to keep my mouth shut like an obedient man. Dear colleagues, this bill is certainly right in which Comrade Carmazin is truly vast, broad. But let's ask questions. If, as a just person, Yuri Anatoliyovich, you say yourself, at the right time, to look at matters qualitatively in order to protect the rights, freedoms and interests of natural and legal persons in the sphere of public-law relations, will your bill contribute? Please refer to your new article, 93 Prime 1. Please tell me this cost of information and technology to a person who, under different circumstances, by virtue of the self-sustainment of an official, has been deprived of a piece of bread, of work and of having to go from one court to another, in the third, to defend his rights, freedom and so forth. And you put all the costs on it. Well, it's, you know, it's socially unfair, because we created administrative litigation, and you, including working on a profile committee, probably for a different purpose than making money. You said that the administrative courts support this idea. Well, maybe they do. Excuse me, the underfunding of the administrative courts doesn't give us any reason to lay down, transfer the funding to the citizens. It's a question of the state, it's a question of the state budget. So it's quite clear that it's what it looks like. What's more, in the explanatory note, she's in front of me, a significant underfunding of the administrative courts in the face of an economic crisis. But what, we're gonna have a crisis our whole lives? And your law will be passed for one year or two or three. I think this bill needs to be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u228	Yuri Carmazin, your two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u229	Yuri Carmazin. Thank you. I'd like to answer to your esteemed colleague Sukhmu. By the way, I always vote in favour of his bills, if they're written professionally and I don't see him referring to the vast majority who are in power today and who have brought the economy completely into collapse today. We're the day before the default, so look, every word has to be answered. That's why I'm going back to information and technology costs, and I'm going to say, yes, that's the cost of informing people who're taking part in the case. You can't close your eyes. But they're being compensated, and I'm responsible to my colleague, at the expense of the losing side. And that's the position that's in the code that everybody knows about students. I'm ashamed to remind the professor of this. That's because you shouldn't do it. Now, honourable national MPs, I'd like to tell you that we're standing on this today, you know, started a judicial reform, started it wrong. We've seen what happened now. And now I'm going to suggest that you show and put, that you go to reform. Show that it is not possible to unite in the same conduct of several requirements and so forth. And I want to invite you to reform administrative justice on reasonable grounds. That argument that the Supreme Administrative Court supports, I just applied it as an argument, because I know that no one reads, including now who has criticized. I realize there's obviously not going to be.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u230	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill is closed. The Committee's conclusion is to accept as a basis. The main scientific and expert office also believes that the bill can be adopted as a basis. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending certain legislative acts on administrative jurisdiction. [[Registration number 8034]] Please vote. [[19:31:49]] For-12. The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. Dear National MPs, I'm announcing a draft law amending the Ukrainian Automobile Transport Act, and the proposal is to consider a reduced procedure, right? [[on the organization of international road transport]] [[Registration number 8029]] I'm voting on this proposal. [[19:32:24]] For 184 Decision taken. The rapporteur is the National Deputy of Ukraine, Vladimir Kaplanko. Coroner is Head of the Committee on Transport and Communications, Mikhailo Mironenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u231	Dear colleagues! Respectable citizens! Ukraine is a great state and has a unique economic and geographical position. Four of the nine international transport corridors in Europe pass through Ukraine. And according to the research by the English Institute of Randel on the transit coefficient, Ukraine takes first place in Europe. Of course, these God - given qualities should be used in behalf of the State. Of course, such legislative conditions must be created so that the Ukrainian carrier is in no worse conditions than its European counterparts. And citizens who use international automobiles were at peace in their lives and protected by the state itself. Certainly not a minute can the Ukrainian budget, which should receive the necessary financial benefits for the granting of licences and permits, including the non-residents of Ukraine, who carry through the territory of our country. The draft law proposes eight fundamental changes. First. It's to identify and put an end to the confusion in terminology: "third countries," "documents on cargo" and "work experience", which six months ago led to half of Ukrainian carriers' licenses being threatened. The other one. Repealing individual license cards is making changes to article 9 to trailers and semi-trailers for use with trucks. This is certainly a European experience, which will improve our lives. Third. To introduce a European approach to the procedure for issuing documents that grant the right to do business in the field of road transport is to change articles 20, 33 and 48. This includes obtaining permits for the transport of dangerous goods. Four. Establish international law on the mandatory installation and use of mobile means of operating control devices, called tachographs, to residents and, I stress, to nonresidents of Ukraine in international passenger transport. Fifth. Exclude the norm of article 48.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u232	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u233	Most importantly, the ban on the carriage of passengers and cargo from a third country by nonresidents of Ukraine without the proper permission of the central executive authority. In view of the compromise made in the consideration of the bill in the Main Committee on the introduction of a number of clarifications to the second reading without violating the requirements of article 116 of the Code of Procedure Act, please support this bill in the first reading by adopting it as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u234	Thank you, too. From the committee, please, head of the committee, Mikhailo Mironenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u235	Dear colleagues! On 11 May 2011, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Transport and Communications reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Road Transport, submitted by the People's Deputies Kaplanek, Zadirk, Kruk and others. [[on the organization of international road transport]] According to the explanatory note, the main task of the bill is to improve the organisation of international transport in the field of road transport and to bring Ukraine's Automobile Transport Act into line with the requirements of European legislation, as well as to remove conflicts of law governing relations in the adjacent spheres of government. In particular, it is proposed to introduce a European approach to the procedure for issuing documents on the right to carry out commercial activities in the field of road transport, the mandatory installation of control devices on transport vehicles, the prohibition of transport from a third country and, or to a third country, from non-residents of Ukraine without obtaining appropriate permits, etc. [[tachographs]] The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine concludes on March 3, 2011, that the bill needs to be finalized. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship recommends the adoption of a bill as a basis. By letter dated 12 March 2011, the Cabinet of the Ministers of Ukraine reported that the bill was supported on a case-by-case basis with regard to the verification of tachographs and sources of financial security for the issuance of permits for the transport of passengers and cargo from third or third country to non-residents of Ukraine. Taking into account the above and the outcome of the discussion, the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that the draft law be adopted on a basis. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u236	Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up for this discussion. Jaroslav Suhi, faction of the Party of the Regions. Then there'll be Taras Cranville.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u237	Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that we go to this bill, for example, because of the possible social consequences of applying this bill in practice. In fact, we see the need, and here we have to give due respect to the authors of the bill -- Kaplanenko, Bully and others -- about the long-standing need for this area of activity to be improved. Well, for example, according to the logistics scheme, the car has to leave Lugansk, get to Brno, Bratislava, or somewhere for a while. Social Consequences: Is there one or two of them, or is there another, or is there only one driver, as he bears these costs, or is he tired or tired, or is he risking his life, threatening himself, endangering himself, loading at a similar rate at which he was moving? And it's also a very important question. We see how many international, well, it's like companies that have a license now have transportation permits, international freight transport. It is quite clear that this procedure must be put into place. Otherwise, we're going to get what we have now, unfortunately, in these transports and in the way these big cars are acting on the routes that we can see every day, especially in our border zones. So it's very clear that this bill needs to be adopted, but in the first reading, as one of the drafters of the bill himself said, because there are a lot of issues that apply to standard-setting technology, it's going to have to be changed. And one more thing. I urge the authors of the bill, we leave article 116 of the Rules in force, so the changes and additions to the profile committee to be considered should meet the requirements of the Ukrainian Rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u238	Taras Blackwall, MP's Reform for the Future. Then there's Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u239	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear fellow national MPs! With regard to this bill, the parliamentary group has been very clear, most of the members of our group are the authors of this bill, and we've polished it long enough, each from its own position. As the previous speaker said, he emphasized social positions in the same way as any of us who are more oriented in the transport field, who are in the technical, who are in the social, who are in the international, all of these nuances, and who are the basis of the bill. It contains well-marked European principles on voting and the definition of the term, the principle of tachographs, which, I would like to remind you, was long overdue to become part of Ukrainian legislation because it is foreseen by our commitments, which were accepted and when we joined the 70 European Agreement on the work of transport crews that carry out international obligations and the relevant International Labour Organization convention. All these documents clearly determine the maximum permissible length of working days for drivers and the characteristics of the intensity of their work. Moreover, the ILO Convention clearly states that we are obliged not only to operate internationally but also to provide for the establishment of special means of fixing the duration and intensity of the driver’s work. Such standards are already in force in not only European countries. And as a whole, even the neighbouring countries of Europe are already in line. I witnessed how wonderful this standard works for transportation, for example, to Morocco in an African country, which in this regard has moved civilizationally beyond us. Therefore, our committee, taking into account this principle, the principles of quota and other necessary things, asks the Supreme Council to support it in its first reading, and the development of the second can take place exclusively in the framework of 116 articles here.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u240	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u241	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! The first reading of the bill defines that concept, principles, this is what is accepted. Everything else is reported on the second reading. What is the concept of this law? I'm quoting the conclusion of the Chief Research Administration. The very explanatory note to the bill needs to be updated because its contents are outdated: "Its paragraphs 3 and 5 do not correspond to the President's Order on Optimization of the System of Central Executive Authorities, contain the names of the cancelled, reorganized central executives." I'm not going to quote any more. The general conclusion is to turn back. Because of this, I was invited by my colleagues to see the possible social consequences now. And I ask you to look at the possible social consequences of adopting this law. Like what? For example, this effect on the 10th page of the comparative table, article 60, “Responsibility for Infringement of Road Transport Legislation”. There is a violation of article 57 of this law and a fine of 1 thousand untaxed minimum citizens’ income, or 17,000 dollars. Possible Social Consequences? Please see what the consequences will be, and the carriers will stop. The question is that loving carriers, including light carriers, say 57: "carrying passengers and cargo." And the first part says that even a light car fits here. So you're going with someone, a friend, a brother, with a wedding, and they're going to tell you where the license is?" And there's no license. As a result, respectable ones and wept are to suffer the social consequences that may be brought into this law. I suggest we turn it down.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u242	Thank you. Alexander Stoyan, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u243	Dear colleagues, I'm a bit of a different question from the procedure. We started work today at the Supreme Council. For two weeks they were in the districts or resting. Four days ahead. There are a lot of bills. Thus, our political power, the faction of regions, and colleagues in the Lithuanian bloc voted to continue their work. Look in the hall. Well, I know when they're judging the leader, then they are.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u244	I'm asking you to do it on the subject, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u245	I'll tell you about it. Look at "Our Ukraine," one comrade who's sorry, honestly, there's no one left. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, we must keep order.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u246	Thank you. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the matter is closed. The committee proposes to adopt the bill as a basis. The main scientific and expert office believes that the bill needs to be finalized. I am voting on the proposal of the adoption committee on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Automobile Transport Act. [[on the organization of international road transport]] [[Registration number 8029]] Please vote. [[19:45:32]] For 235 Decision taken. [[B in m in s a l in]] For 235, the decision is made. Honorable National MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u247	Vote, Vladimir Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m1.u248	There were no cards. I'm asking you, Your Honor, calm down. Calm down, please. Ladies and gentlemen, I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. Tomorrow we'll continue our work from 10 a.m. to Wednesday. Thanks for the job.
