ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-06-m0.u1	Please sit down, dear fellows. Dear National Deputies! [[Applause]] Please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:01:10]] They registered in the 329 national deputies’ session hall. Honourable National Deputies, Honourable Attendants, are taking part in the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine by President Viktor Fedorovich Janukovic of Ukraine. Welcome to the President. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, may I welcome all the participants in today's first session of the ninth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the Sixth Assembly and the celebration of the 20th anniversary of the declaration of Ukraine's independence. At a meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, there are also: Prime Minister of Ukraine Mikola Janovich Azarov and members of the government, Head of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, Head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, Head of the Supreme Economic Court of Ukraine, Head of the Supreme Administrative Court of Ukraine, Head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine for Civil and Criminal Affairs, Attorney-General of Ukraine, Head of the National Bank of Ukraine, Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights, Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, Head of the Ukrainian State Property Fund, Head of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine, Head of the Supreme Council of Justice, Other Head of the State Committee of Television, Radio Security Service of Ukraine and Presidents of Ukraine: The Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine, Head of the Supreme Council of the Church, Head of the Supreme Council of the Supreme Council of the Republic of Ukraine. Honourable National Deputies and Guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the ninth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the Sixth Assembly and the celebration of the 20th anniversary of the declaration of independence of Ukraine I declare open. [[The National Hymn of Ukraine]] [[Applause]] Dear National Deputies and Visitors of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I invite the students of the Chinese Military List of Name John Boden to bring to the session hall the Great State Flag of Ukraine, which marked the birth of the Ukrainian State 20 years ago. [["Prayer for Ukraine"]] [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, I invite you to the address of President Viktor Fedorovich Yanukovic of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-06-m0.u2	Dear national MPs, dear compatriots! From the rostrum of the Supreme Council, I welcome you, all the participants in the ceremony, the entire Ukrainian society with the 20th anniversary of the independence of our state. [[Applause]] During these years, Ukraine has come to be recognized as a single, sovereign country that has already grown its generation of modern - day youths. So you and I have a great responsibility, which we will hand over to the young generation to come. The great responsibility rests on the shoulders of the Ukrainian authorities, for the modern world is very complex and challenges facing Ukraine on a global scale, challenges that we need together to find worthy answers. The previous two sessions demonstrated the importance of close interaction, cooperation between legislators, the President and the government. For the first time in years, the Supreme Council has demonstrated high efficiency and political responsibility, convinced that our cooperation will only be strengthened. This year, we celebrate the 20th anniversary of our nation's independence. In two decades we have experienced many crises and political conflicts. It is not surprising that our citizens mistrust the institutions of power, since politics and populism often prevailed over work and common sense. But I'm sure this sad tradition is what we're going to do, and we're going to do it together. We have one goal: an effective policy of modernizing Ukraine, creating conditions for the Ukrainian people to live together under the only roof of a strong European country that we will be proud of. Serious steps have been taken on the path of reform: early retirement, land reform, health reform, education, housing and utilities, creating conditions for enterprise development, and a widespread fight against corruption. We have also begun profound changes in the judicial system. I want to point out that in all these directions we have received timely and quality legislative support. I have already proposed an algorithm for further cooperation through social dialogue, public discussion and parliamentary hearings. This will allow you to expand the social base of modernization, increase citizens' trust in the state. The steady work of power allowed us to restore positive economic trends. During the seven months of this year, economic growth is estimated at about five percent. Growth has taken place in all key sectors of the economy, industrial production has increased by almost 8.7 percent, construction by 14 percent, agriculture by more than 9 percent. This year, Ukraine plans to produce more than 50 million tons of grains, 11 million tons more than last year. The internal consumer market has grown. We have a stable and balanced financial situation, a stable and predictable currency exchange rate. Ukraine’s exports of goods and services increased by 42 percent in the first half of the year compared with the same period last year. Legally, reforms and economic stability have created attractive investment conditions. A positive assessment of the further development of the Ukrainian economy is shared by international co-operation. Recently, Fitch increased Ukraine's sovereign rating from stable to positive. At the same time, we will be open. We face new trials and threats, a world crisis far from over. Ukraine paid an extremely high price for its first wave. Some decisions by the authorities of that time and thus far raise many questions, both from an economic and legal point of view, as they directly affect the state’s economic security. In particular, it is about financial support programmes for the banking sector in 2008-2009 and an unfavourable gas supply contract signed in early 2009. In these matters, investigation and justice must say their word. We have to learn from this sad story, because it's the fate of the state, its safe development. By my commission, the government has prepared a set of actions aimed at warning the negative effects of the new crisis wave. The Cabinet of Ministers, along with the National Bank, should intensify their interaction, make sure that Ukraine is ready to face financial threats. In August, I gave an order to avoid negative trends in Ukraine’s financial markets. Efforts were made to ensure the stability of the state’s financial system and to minimize the impact on the domestic economy of the international financial markets. In carrying out these tasks, I count on the understanding and support of the deputies. In particular, budgetary policies of the State play a key role in implementing effective economic policies. Parliament will soon begin its work on the State Budget Project 2012. So I would like to focus on this issue. Last year, the first steps in the reform of the State’s financial system were successfully completed, and basic documents were adopted in this area, the new Financial and Tax Codes. Legislative changes were the basis for the start-up in Ukraine in 2011 of innovative changes in the budgetary process. In particular, medium-term budgeting has been introduced. The next step towards improving fiscal policy is this summer. These are changes to the Budget Code aimed at improving government and local debt management, increasing the role of local authorities in providing regions with funds for efficient and balanced development of areas. This practice has shown that in the middle of the year we have the opportunity to significantly strengthen the role of the State in the development of the regions. Thanks to the recovery of the economy and the innovations mentioned, the state budget today has all the signs of stability. The general fund's income projections are over 7 months this year. I'm sure we'll end the current budget year with a good result. The following year, we need to strengthen and develop this positive attitude. First of all, I'm going to demand that the state budget figures of 2012 be based on the country's realistic socio-economic development scenario. In general, one of the main priorities next year is to see a further increase in the resilience of the public finances system. This is particularly important in terms of the difficult economic and financial situation in the world. We need a balanced debt policy, a reduction of the budget deficit, a balance of local budgets, an expenditure policy based on optimized state-based and budgetary programmes. In addition, the key task of the budget next year is to encourage further growth in the economy and regional development. Dear colleagues, among the priorities of Parliament's legislative work in the near future, would like to highlight the following: a profound reform of the agricultural sector, the key to which is the reform of land relations. Today, this topic, as they say, is highly politicized and highly politicized, but only through reforms will we be able to secure Ukraine's leadership positions in the global food market and restore the Ukrainian village. It is simply impossible to endure poverty and injustice in agriculture. The first steps have already been taken. The State Land Cadastre Act has been approved, which has established a ground for abolishing the moratorium on the sale of agricultural land. In turn, the draft law on the land market is being considered and adopted. I believe that with his acceptance, the reform will be fully operational. Other issues of agrarian reform should not be overlooked, particularly the strengthening of land-use control, as well as the establishment of mortgages and mortgages on land and rights. The relevant bills are in Parliament. In order to properly form the legislative base of the agrarian sphere, the bill on food security in Ukraine is also important to Parliament. Second, further improvement in business conditions. It is necessary to focus on improving the mechanisms of national regulatory policy by reducing State intervention in business, simplifying and improving existing regulatory procedures. Important steps have already been taken in this direction: one third of the licensed activities, a reduction in the number of control bodies, a comprehensive list of documents of a permissive nature, and a declaration of the licensing principle, and a substantial simplification of the permit procedures in construction. Ninja’s urgent tasks are to complete the reform of the permit system, to improve legislation on bankruptcy, and to counter illegal capture and capture of businesses, to increase responsibility for violations of the state registration. In particular, I consider it particularly important to consider and adopt a new version of the Law on the Recovery or Recognition of the Debtor's Payment or the Recognition of It by Bankruptcy, and to distinguish between the registration of the manufacturer's declaration of conformity with respect to the resistance to registration. Special attention needs to be paid to reforming the area of administrative services. In the near future, I will introduce an urgent bill on administrative services that will lay down the basic principles for the activities of entities providing administrative services, the rights and responsibilities of natural and legal persons in obtaining administrative services. Third. Modernization of basic sectors and infrastructure. The conditions of the real sector need to be improved urgently. To this end, the problem of creating conditions for individual regulators, such as energy and transport, needs to be addressed. In order to modernize housing and utilities, it is necessary to adopt a new edition of the state-wide Drinking Water Program of Ukraine. Please also note the issue of creating conditions at the legislative level for the cost-saving use of energy resources, especially imported ones, to increase the level of energy security in the country. This also applies to the financial stability of energy industries and adjacent markets, the promotion of energy-efficient technologies and equipment, the growth of domestic fuel and energy production. In addition, domestic port infrastructure is needed for legislative regulation. This will allow our nation to regain the status of regional leader in the field of water transport, become a major player in this direction. Four. Acceleration of innovative transformations. I consider privatization a major means of enhancing the effectiveness of Ukraine's national economy. In this regard, we need to focus on the completion of the privatisation process in Ukraine. The legislative framework for privatization has long been inadequate to meet the needs of today. The situation needs to be rectified. Once introduced by the Government, the Act on the State Privatization Programme should be adopted. State ownership must have a limited number of enterprises that ensure the State's basic functions and guarantee national and economic security. And the rest of the objects will be ready for sale. In the near future, I hope that Parliament will address the issue of the relationship between creditors and lenders. Restoring citizens' trust in the financial sphere is a key task in this area. I hope that the adoption of effective legislation will allow the banking system to be healed in the shortest possible time. Fifth. The reform of the security sector and in particular its key element is the army. Strategic documents will be prepared and adopted this year. A new edition of the National Security Strategy and the Military Doctrine. The concept of military reform and its implementation is being developed. And we're taking the first steps towards reform right now. In the near future, I need to consider and approve the draft law on the number of the Ukrainian Armed Forces for 2012. By the end of the following year, I propose to add the number of the Ukrainian army to 184 thousand, including 139 thousand military personnel. I am counting on support in this important issue for the State. Six. Administrative reform and its closely linked anticorruption policy will be implemented in a consistent manner. Ukraine's adopted Act on Central Executive Authorities and Anti-Corruption Laws laid the foundations for a new administrative system. At the time of the adoption of the new Law on State Service. I look forward to the balanced position and productive work of Parliament on this issue as well. At the same time, a project is being prepared to create a specialized anti-corruption body. This complex of decisions will enable us to form a modern and effective administrative system that works transparently and is under the supervision of citizens and representatives. Dear national MPs, the modernization changes will take place only if the foundations and mechanisms of democracy are further developed. First of all, a new impetus to its development needs civil society. A major step on this path was the adoption of the Ukrainian Public Information Act. In the near future, I will be signing a decree on a strategy to promote the development of civil society. It will define a programme of priority measures, including public participation in the development, adoption and monitoring of public decisions. I am convinced that this will also contribute to the timely approval of the Law on Public Organizations, which takes into account both domestic practices and positive international experience. We need a dialogue of power and society from all aspects of reform, because people's confidence in the country's modernization process is a key element of success. The next important aspect is the reform of electoral legislation. The adoption of the Law on the Election of People’s Deputies will test the maturity of Ukrainian Parliamentarianism, both in terms of its content and in terms of the culture of discussion of its political components. National electoral legislation should stimulate the development of parliamentaryism, a party system, and real local self-government. For my part, I take under personal control the question of taking into account the recommendations of the Venice Commission and the OSCE both in the new draft law and in further work in the direction of codification of electoral legislation. Preparations for reforming local self - government are being completed. In the summer of this year, the Regional Council of the President of Ukraine decided to develop a plan of action for the correction of regional policy and the development of a package of proposals for municipal reform. We need to work together to develop a strategy and a package of legislative initiatives that will allow for the practical start of reform itself. The basis for reforming local self-government is to determine the extension of the rights of territorial communities and the decentralisation of power. I am also deeply convinced of the need to continue judicial reform. Now we're starting this second phase, which is going to involve public discussion, creating an atmosphere of open debate, taking into account the recommendations of the Venice Commission. This comes not only from Ukraine’s international obligations but also from the need for the judicial system itself. Undoubtedly, the deep economic, social, and political changes in Ukraine have a European dimension and are closely linked to the state’s European integration course. All nations in the field of European integration need to be taken into account in prioritizing legislative activities. Without proper parliamentary support, it is impossible to succeed in the Euro-integration process. With this in mind, our main tasks in the near future are to continue adapting Ukraine’s legislation to the norms and requirements of the European Union. The aim of this process is to prepare for a deeper and inclusive area of free trade with the EU and to implement the Visa Liberalisation Action Plan for Ukraine. An important legislative activity is aimed at completing Ukraine’s monitoring of its commitments to the Council of Europe, which has been carried out for 16 years. Among the main tasks ahead of us are the reform of criminal and procedural legislation, the penitentiary system, the change in the role and functions of the Attorney General, the adoption of the Electoral Code. And this requires timely legislative provision from Parliament. So I wish everyone success! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-06-m0.u3	Dear national deputies and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! The word has the national deputy of Ukraine five exclamations, the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s first and third exclamations, the Hero of Ukraine, Ivan Stepanovich Plush.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-06-m0.u4	Dear Mr. President! Dear colleagues, guests and present in this room! For more than 20 years, an independent country — Ukraine — has appeared on the map of the world. This is a testimony that the Ukrainian people, for their centuries of history, have not only declared their independence once again but also proved that they want and can be a predictable, good neighbor and an active subject of the European and world community. 20 years for the state and society is a moment. But I think many of you share that this is the greatest victory of our history, and of course it has a direct bearing on the Supreme Council of Ukraine's first vocation and the national deputies of Ukraine, who are many people present in this room and who are not present. [[Applause]] Since our first years of independence, and until now, we have been proud to speak, declare, and continue to speak and declare our wonderful opportunities in the development of the national economy and civil society organization. And that's true, it's said by both domestic and foreign experts. But unfortunately, and this was acknowledged by President Viktor Janukovic of Ukraine in his letter to the Ukrainian people, reminding us of our harsh realities, calling it the main problem of independence poverty and poverty, especially of the older Ukrainian people. Even today you have heard Viktor Fedorovich mention these categories several times: both poverty and poverty. Of course, in society today, only a lazy one does not ask why efforts to achieve all kinds of reforms in independence have failed. Not everyone likes them, you have to be honest. For me, we are obliged to recognize the obvious truth: socio-economic transformations, the liberal future of our society and the state did not have a constructive alternative at the start of systemic reforms, and it does not exist today. That is why I and those who share this view have supported the initiative of National Deputy Igor Ribakov to set up a parliamentary group called Reforms for the Future, whose tasks are. [[Applause]] First, the further development of civil society, secondly, the development of an economy that would be able to integrate into a world liberal, by its definition, a space of membership in the European Union. I would like to say that more than ninety percent of the citizens who voted in favour of establishing Ukraine as a sovereign state in December 91 voted in favour of such development priorities in Ukraine. Experience is with us. We all remember the state of affairs in the economy and society of neighbouring Poland in the late 1980s, early 1990s. They were far better than in Ukraine. Today, Poland is the recognized leader of Central Europe, NATO and the European Union, and at the rate of GDP growth among post-socialist countries, only China is coming forward. Why are the realities of everyday life in Ukraine fundamentally different from that of Poland? Because our left-wing parties and other so-called "nationals" cannot break ties with the principles of dogmatic Marxism-Leninism, have not acquired signs of European social democracy, and, unfortunately, perform the functions of irreconcilable opposition to market transformation. In Poland, the left parties, unlike ours, were active leaders of Euro-integration, supporting market reforms, deepening them. It's the simplest and most fashionable thing today to cheat on the President and the Parliament. We need to understand that the problems that have come before Ukraine’s development are not confined to economics. These are problems of disforming the entire Ukrainian society into a political nation. The epicenter of increasing socio-economic balance, scientists say, is right here. The failure to overcome the worldwide vacuum is either the most destructive factor in the consolidation of Ukrainian society. Society disorder, according to Michael Bulgakov, begins in the minds of people. We are increasingly confronted with the world - wide views of the Communist system. In Ukrainian society, parties are dominated without their own ideologies. Even more dangerous is the formation of state - run institutions by such parties. If the authorities do not respond adequately to such phenomena, they will lose confidence in the people. Overcoming the world-viewed vacuum by creating conditions for achieving social compromise, primarily in re-thinking history, overcoming distorted stereotypes is not just our right, it is our sacred duty. This requires more thorough self - examination, self - knowledge, appreciation for its historical not meticulousness and value, bearing in mind that a people without history is a fatherless nation. Such a nation loses not only its genetic origins but also its vision of the future. Politicians who offer us to deal only with the problems of today, and let history wait, are shortsighted and destructive. Even the great Churchill warned that the more you delve into the past, the better you see the future. And the Ukrainian scientist Professor Vladimir Shayan wrote: history is a process of self-awareness by the nation of its essence, and because of its self-awareness in history, the nation carries out its mission. I'm making these statements so that we have very much now among the politicians of those whom Taras Grigorovitch Shevchenko rightly called "the uncles of the foreigner's homeland." To them, our story is foreign, speculating on the historical issue, and they want political dividends. [[Applause]] A particular resistance should cause any humiliation of the Ukrainian language, an inherent attribute of society that wants to be itself. [[Applause]] In this regard, I appeal to all who sit, who sees and listens: Do not identify defeat. He's in this room, thank you. Do not identify Victor Yushchenk’s defeat in the presidential election as the defeat of the Ukrainian national idea, which was at the heart of the 2004 field. In keeping with the principles and principles of that kind, we will be able to separate ourselves from those of whom the Ukrainian poet, archaeologist and political actor Oleg Olzic wrote very aptly: "O nation! Long and eternal as a god! It's not a generation of hooves who will dishonor your victory at Corsun and Konotape." And to the end. I've been working in this room for a quarter of a century. And I want to tell you that the first law. And when it's time, it doesn't judge you. And the first Language Law, due to reconstruction, was passed in 1989. As far as I'm concerned, it's the best law. It's the best we've ever come up with, maybe we don't have to. The Declaration of State Sovereignty was adopted in this Hall in 1990 by 357 votes, and another 17 wrote notes asking us to count our vote. Act declaring independence – 346 votes, Constitution – 315. And hundreds of legislative acts were adopted by the constitutional majority. This was only possible because we were the only ones in this room in thought and action. Let me last quote part of Pantelemón Kulish's letter to Taras Grigorovich Shevchenka in 1844. The quote is, "So we who are going to contradict our fellow countrymen's eyes have to give each other a hand, advise each other, or the writing will not do us any good. And the Cossack's father, the old Hmelnite, said, dying: therefore it was, saying, a terrible Cossack power, that ye, ye good men, had the will and the thought alone." Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-06-m0.u5	The statement is given to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Volodymyr Mikhailovich Litvina.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-06-m0.u6	Honourable President of Ukraine, distinguished national deputies and members of the government, high meeting! We need to look back to know that we are not wrong again, as we were once wrong. Ukrainians need to take a good look back and recall the last two hundred and two decades. These fundamental words belong to the outstanding scholar and public figure, Michael Dragomanov. By the way, on September 30, we're going to be celebrating 170 years from the day he was born. And these words have been spoken as if for the present, for you and me. So the 20th anniversary of independence and the attitude of that event is a testimony to the level of our understanding of the historic place of Ukraine, an indication of our sense of ownership of the country and the people, the process of creating the state, the strengthening of the Ukrainian nation. This is a testimony to the ability to gain an objective view of the whole country, its history, its politics, its economy, its territory, its people, and to see them not only in the last 20 years, but, let's say, during the same period from 1917 to 1937 last century, I am no longer taking up the Hmelnick era and the next period. I assure you, fellow believers, that then we will be more objective in judgements and assessments, we will discover much instructive and warning, less condition of groaning and weeping, more pride. Ukraine is a difficult country. She is vulnerable to criticism, and this needs to be acknowledged, and this needs to be understood. But it is our country, and Ukraine, as its parents, must be proud. In the negative, a person will not be exposed and the child will not be born. In view of the truth in sight, it should be emphasized that the Act of Independence, as before, the Declaration of State Sovereignty, has become possible thanks to the will, responsibility and recognition of the historic moment by the members of the Supreme Council for the first time. They sensed the irreversibility of social walking, captured people’s moods, and materialized them with their own decision, a decision that the Ukrainian people later adopted in a nationwide referendum. By thanking the founders of the modern Ukrainian State, I ask that we honor the memory of the 97 first - time deputies who have gone away forever, and together with them all known and unknown fighters for the will of Ukraine, all who lived, defended, rebuilt the country, and did good on our earth. Honorable participants in a solemn meeting, on the Supreme Council as an unprecedentedly open institute, place absolute responsibility for processes in Ukraine for all years of independence, just as the authorities have not yet managed to secure a root fracture for the better. What was called reforms in the preceding period is a turning point in its population, especially when we consider that we were armed with approaches that have already been taken and refused in the world. Yet, when accepting and sharing criticism, especially in the recent period and especially because of the exercise in this part of today's national deputies, who generally do not go to work, it is necessary to recognize and record: the Supreme Council has always been in the epicenter of Ukrainian life for 20 years, has kept the country in general civilised borders and has ensured its establishment, and at particularly critical moments has taken full responsibility for itself. And at the same time, it would seem obvious that as long as there is a Supreme Council, even as today -- baptized and unloved, there will be Ukraine, there will be Ukraine as an independent, sovereign, democratic, social and legal state. The Supreme Council is the personification and design of our own society, its state, its values, and it is where the thoughts, moods and aspirations of the people come together and concentrate. Their collisions give birth to reconciled positions of government in torment. We are obliged by deliberate, determined joint reform efforts to lift the ground for the growing discontent of people into a new quality. Inhale the building spirit into the country. This, in turn, involves a dialogue and understanding of social harmony as a highway for the development of the State and the nation. That is how mankind develops. Building a country only by efforts from the top will have no foundation, no result. Another great illusion is that we are disappointed in the future today. Thus, the Supreme Council is called upon and obliged to generate impulses to the common understanding of Ukraine. Reaching it is an extremely difficult matter. But under Ukrainian conditions, it's the only safe way. And we need just as much reliability as we do today. Taking into account the key tasks of today’s state order of the day to preserve and develop the country, to provide it with civilized facilities at the point of man’s needs, not the state. The state is and will be. And what it will be, it all depends on what place it has for every citizen in it. And not to the average little Ukrainian, as we are loved to speak, but to the citizen. The Head of State has fully outlined the tasks for the new stage of the country. And Ukraine has every reason to realize its historic opportunity to become an effective democratic country. We must do everything we can to avoid being viewed as such unpredictably non - Europeans in need of guidance and guidance. We need to be aware of ourselves. Ukraine must become a country of self - confidence, capable of thinking and acting on its own, of defending its own interests and interests. The world respects those who respect themselves. Let us learn to respect ourselves first. For Ukraine’s transition to a new quality, such conditions are also needed. A stable democratic government, a transparent responsibility of authority to citizens, the responsibility of citizens for their choices. Without that, we will continue to run in the minefields of freedom. All of this is directly and primarily about the Supreme Council, which should not be removed from the status of the body chosen by the people. As appropriate, the country needs, either, a minimally effective party system and acceptable electoral legislation. The general conclusion is that radical changes are to take place in the country, as life demands, as the President proposes, while taking place from the inside. The time of conversation and the intentions and the truce for reform has come to an end, and work is needed. Living in the past and making the way into the future with words is already a stage for us. Dear colleagues, in 1990 there were only 13 separate codes and 26 laws in force in Ukraine. Today, think about it, 3,000 854 laws, of which: 625 are basic or primary, a thousand 52 laws anchor the ratification or accession of Ukraine to international treaties. 34 legislative acts approve national social and economic development programmes. Thus, the initial formation of the national legislative base has actually been completed, and it has largely corresponded to the first stage of the state structure of Ukraine. Now we have two main tasks to do. First. It is legislative to ensure the next stage of the country's development and to bring the entire legislative array closer and closer together with European standards, the key ones defined by the Head of State. The other one. Review and clear the existing legislative field and bring it into line with new realities. It is enough to say that, until now, 25 decrees of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine are still valid, and the Supreme Council continues to make changes to them contrary to the Constitution, and that is 153 legislative acts. As a legacy of the Soviet Union and the Soviet Union, 90 laws, including or among them the four actual codes: the 1960 Criminal Procedure Code, to which 200 amendments in the form of laws were amended and supplemented. The European Court of Human Rights warns of the need for its replacement. The code of labour laws of 40 years of age has been updated by 71 laws, but it does not meet and cannot meet modern social needs. The Housing Code was amended by 18 laws, with its main objective being to implement Lenin's ideas of constructing a communist society and to implement the Communist Party's housing program consistently remains unchanged. [[of 1983]] Let's do this. The Code of Administrative Offences has been running its history since 1984. It was covered with 245 laws. A particular problem is the implementation of constitutional provisions for the Constitution to work. There is reason to note that Ukraine is not today a State that ensures the development of the Constitution and strengthens its building role. This is because more than 130 constitutional laws have already been adopted to ensure the implementation of its 26 articles. As they work, we can see from the following examples: The Law on Local Self - Government has been amended more than 50 times, and an official interpretation of its individual provisions has been made by the Constitutional Court; the Law on the Status of the People’s Deputy of Ukraine has been amended 20 times respectively, and its position has been interpreted 13 times by the Constitutional Court. On the other hand, I consider it appropriate to ask with all keenness the need to approve a new version of the Law on the Status of the People’s Deputy. Among other things, it must be determined once and for all to eliminate all excesses that have created an already insurmountable gap between the people and their representatives. In general, today we have this picture: in the legal and regulatory framework of Ukraine, the ratio of laws to legal acts has increased to 40 percent. In Ukraine, there are now more than 170,000 laws and regulations, and in the first years of independence it was within 22 years, and in the Soviet period it was 10 percent. Of course, we will not be able to regulate all social relations by law. It's not real, and that's obviously not necessary. We need to move away from the principle of "working for today" and more actively introduce into the practice of defining the principles of law that are binding in the implementation of any law. This will allow the principles of their application to be established in laws, make the right to apply them clearer in practice, promote the principle of the rule of law, human rights and freedoms, and citizens. The serious threat to the legal system is the overcrowding of its norms, the prohibitions, while they must be adopted only in exceptional cases and the rules of obligation, the proportion of which in the entire legal system should not exceed 5 per cent. Instead, allowing norms in our legislation is becoming increasingly exceptional. Then it is necessary for special parliamentary hearings to be held to produce and adopt a scientifically sound and practically anticipated concept of the development of Ukrainian legislation, and it already has to build a legislative work programme. At least for 10 years, which will be the present stage of Ukraine’s development. That's what's going to make you think about it, your respectable colleagues, and the fact that you're already registered in the Supreme Council, think about it! – 4,000,782 bills. A Respectable Meeting! During the years of the 20-year state-building of Ukraine and the task of its next high-quality declaration, the Supreme Council, with us, demands solid and responsible action, requires collective leadership with us. Leadership is not in the formulation of political formulas; we have already learned to do it well, but at the same time, to implement the necessary countries and people of fundamental values on which the civilized world and those who form the basis of the Ukrainian soul are based. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-06-m0.u7	Dear national deputies and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Please, Your Honor, thank the President of Ukraine, the government, all the guests for participating in the ceremony of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the 20th anniversary of Ukraine's Independence. [[Applause]] The meeting is closed. Thank you. And, dear colleagues, requests, if you don't mind, break until 12 o'clock. At 11:30 p.m., a meeting of the Conciliation Council will be held with the participation of faction leaders. I'd like you, dear colleagues, to see an exhibition dedicated to the 20th anniversary of independence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-06-m0.u8	Dear colleagues, let's continue our work. During the break, a meeting of the Conciliation Council was held, and issues related to the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine were discussed. The only thing that we've achieved complete understanding and unity is not to take a break right now at 12 o'clock. From 12 to 12.30. So if you have no objection, let's keep working. I would now like, in accordance with article 25 of the Rules, to sign up for the presentations of the authorized representatives of the MPs and groups. Please record statements from the rostrum. Yes, I'd like your name taken out. Yes, Martinenko Mikola Volodymyrovich, Simonenko Peter Mikolaiovich, Roman Zabzaluk, Alexander Efraemov, Oleg Zarubinsky and Taras Cnerovil. Dear colleagues, while preparing for Michael Martinenko's speech, please listen to the announcement. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Act "On the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine" and articles 59 and 60 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I report the entry of the Ukrainian National Deputy Vasadze Tarijel Shakrovič into the membership of the Party of the Regions. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, Martinenko Mikola Volodymyrovich, head of the "Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-06-m0.u9	Dear fellow countrymen, dear colleagues! The new session of the Supreme Council begins in an incredibly difficult period for Ukraine. The government has opposed itself to the whole country, destroyed democracy, unleashed political repression, and casts non-conformities for play, makes it appear that it does not see opposition, but it is driven by targeted fire. As in Stalin times, they've been shot by a stake, and now they're dragging people to the police for any form of disagreement. You don't scare everyone, and you don't transplant 46 million. And the opposition reflects the opinion of most of society, and the opposition coordinates its work. People’s self - organization and willingness to defend their rights, their hospital, their school are increasing throughout the country. Ask the people of Donetsk who are not afraid to defend their children’s education, so the Party of Regions is once again throwing provocative topics like Russian, but without result. The government doesn't see its citizens. If the word "reform" is "reform," that's the first sign that people get their hands in their pockets. The socio-economic rights of tens of millions of Ukrainians have become a target for power attacks. So-called pension reform, the authorities want to cancel Amendment 40 of our faction Arsenius Yatsenuk. This amendment, which most have missed, is the reason why this antinational law is not signed, since many millions of people will have to increase their pensions by more than 300 dollars. This news has come as a shock to the authorities, how it is not to take it away but to give it back. We will seek to raise social standards, especially for low-income citizens. Changes are also needed to the long - suffering Tax Code. We pay particular attention to what the authorities call land reform. In fact, it wants to purchase Ukrainian land, its latest national acquisition, and then sell it for billions of dollars to foreigners. Another false reform of government is medical. In reality, under the cover of optimism, hospitals are largely closed. In addition, the medical profession itself, which needs resuscitation, takes up the final funds, will be distributed to government officials. This means a new outpouring of corruption, which is still total. Courts after a series of pseudoreforms are completely controlled by the authorities. At the top, they're ready to plant anyone. The first step towards ending this vacchanal is to bring in the courts of the jury, which is the constitutional right of Ukrainians. The government does not see Parliament as a higher legislature. The vast majority shame the state around the world, violate all important procedures, sabotage regulation and vote for the missing. Hence, harmful laws with which they do not know what to do, as well as the same Tax Code. Our faction will continue to insist on the implementation of the sensory button. Sooner or later, however, we will force the pro-powerful deputies to vote in person, as required by the Constitution. We will also seek the approval of the Law on the Rights of Opposition. We are not just criticizing, but we are proposing professional alternatives to all important issues. The vast majority of them are demonstrably throwing away just because it's from the opposition. This blindness is going to end badly. Your time has passed. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-06-m0.u10	Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko is invited from the Communist faction. Roman Zabzaluk will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-06-m0.u11	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! The analysis of the global and our Ukrainian socio-economic processes and political transformations gives us the full right to say that the expectation of a rapid response to crises is a formidable illusion. That's why we Communists believe that in the second wave of crisis, the next task of the current session should be to radically change the approach to the formation of internal and external policies, to the development and implementation of anti-crisis measures. To protect a person from the market, to protect a domestic producer, to create the necessary conditions for the development of industry, agriculture, science, and culture. State guarantees must be provided regarding the strength of national currency, pricing policies, job creation and the elimination of unemployment, the guarantee of quality and free medicine and education. The situation is getting worse every day. It requires urgent reinvigoration of Ukraine's economy, the return of Ukraine to the Ukrainian manufacturer. What are we talking about? We Communists are proposing, first of all, that we immediately review the cables for Ukraine's agreement with the World Trade Organization. WTO membership has not contributed to the expansion of markets for the domestic industry, has not stimulated its development, has not increased the flow of investment into the real sector, but Ukraine’s domestic market is occupied with imported goods, medicines, food that are dangerous to health and, even, life, and this is an undeniable fact. Secondly, we call for an end to cooperation with the International Monetary Fund, which advocates the interests of financial speculators, to eliminate social programs, to raise prices and tariffs, to increase tax pressure and pressure on the already scarce income of workers. And in this sense the only effective alternative to the World Trade Organization and IMF, the primary area of free trade with the EU can only be the Customs Union and Ukraine's full participation in the Single Economic Space. Thirdly, we need to provide the real economy with affordable and long loans at minimum interest rates. And when it comes to strategic enterprises and government property, perhaps at zero rates. For small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, for peasants, the interest on loans should not exceed 3-5 percent if we talk about real steps to get Ukraine out of the crisis. Fourthly, we need to provide serious and major real support for Ukraine's agrarian complex, stimulate domestic large-scale agriculture, help farmers today with both grain pricing and fuel pricing policies. Fifthly, it is necessary to restore to state property the strategic enterprises of the metallurgical, mining and engineering industry. All kinds of useful fossils, primarily oil and gas wells, mines, open careers, and so forth, must be completely controlled by the State. Without this, it is impossible to solve the price and tariff problems of the GCC, and it is impossible to implement the necessary social programs, including the filling of the Pension Fund. It is the solution to this key issue that will enable Ukraine today to have real steps towards the exit of the state from the crisis. As far as tax policy is concerned. The Communists have repeatedly offered to eliminate the corruption tax on added value, to increase taxes on citizens’ incomes, which amount to over 100,000 dollars a year, and to introduce additional congregations to financial transactions and to purchase luxury items. Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! All these and other anti-crisis proposals that we propose will stand in the walls of the Supreme Council and beyond. They are supported by the participants in the national referendum, understanding people, economically sound, and meeting the requirements of time, which is almost there.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-06-m0.u12	Please finish. John Kirilenko will be speaking from the Faction "BUT" to "Paternity". Alexander Ephraim will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-06-m0.u13	Respectable Society! In the most responsible moments of our history, the Supreme Council itself has become, not a catalyst for tension, but a unique uniting environment, where products of the truth of the collective mind have always been worked out as a result of public discussion. And then, in a society that was often burned to death, the passions, the tension, and the tension subsided. Today, both witnesses and participants and organizers of such decisions and events are present in the hall, beginning in the early days of August 1991. I will not exaggerate or sin against the truth if I say that the present situation in the country is not so simple again and again. Infringement of a criminal case against him. and the unjust judgment of Julius Timoshenko and other leaders of the opposition literally rocked the world. Today, even to the unconvicted, it is clear that the case of Tymoshenko is falling apart in court: corruption is no longer mentioned, the criminal is no longer sought, the abuse is not proved by any fact, the excess of authority at a time when the head of government under the current Constitution was the highest possible, is simply absurd. That is why both the international community and the world’s leading statesmen, the well - known politicians, the Nobel Prize laureates, have long since baptized this process as a political one, as the unfolding of persecution and the destruction of opposition. And they've given birth to a problem that's essentially able to paralyze the country. And instead of O.R., get sustained and destructive destabilization. Please tell me, if everyone is equal before the law, how to qualify for such terrible things. Eight months under the National Programme, hundreds of thousands of severely ill people, including a large proportion of children, are not brought into the country! At the same time, drugs that proved to be 10 times more expensive than those in neighboring Belarus are being imported without hindrance! What about the sad benefits of taxing imported goods for billions of dollars, generously donated to individual structures?Oh, my God! And these published examples in the press in every field or field of activity are dozens. But the answer to the question is, why, in fact, does Timoshenko judge for nothing, and here, they say, is no silence. We, as a responsible political force, are aware of what, indeed, any authority and its bearers, politicians can do differently, especially in difficult socio-economic conditions. Like Julia Timoshenko, someone took a bold responsibility and saved her life in the heat of winter, Ukraine, and Europe by restoring the gas supply. At the same time, someone was hiding behind her. And that's what happened. An evaluation of such actions, I stress, is given by the highest judge -- the people in the elections and everything. Let me just add that this is the norm of the civilized world. And that's why our specific offer is like that. It is for us, the Supreme Council, that we must in any way urgently correct this fatal mistake. When a woman, a politician, a statesman, is persecuted for determined action that saved people. For those of us who have been in court for more than a decade now, it is clear that the rule of law that judges our leader is a guillotine in the hands of every next authority to destroy its predecessors. So do we really want stability or a continuous war of political elites?Oh, my God! We need to resolve this matter immediately. Stop this disgraceful process! To free Timoshenko and to end this theatre of absurdity in Pechersk, which destroys Ukraine's already far-out reputation in the world, undermines its Euro-Integration image. This decision of Parliament will be a test of our maturity, of the ability to compromise for the sake of the harmony and understanding that society has become so tired of. We have to make no mistake, fellows! In the meantime, most of us are leaving the hall, because unfortunately, we still have a job at the Cave Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-06-m0.u14	I invite you to the presentation by Alexander Efraemov of the faction of the Party of Regions. Oleg Zarubinsky will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-06-m0.u15	I understand that less than half of the faction supports the previous statement, unfortunately, of colleagues. Dear Chairman, distinguished colleagues! On behalf of the MP of the Party of the Regions, I congratulate the people's deputies and all citizens on the 20th anniversary of Ukraine's independence and on the beginning of the ninth session of the Supreme Council. [[Applause]] Jubilee means bringing the outcome and setting goals for the future. Our country's path has been difficult and ambiguous. Our achievements have been replaced by mistakes and miscalculations, and yet, year after year, we are constantly on track to strengthen national sovereignty. Only real matters can be the best report of the authorities for the holiday. Following the 2010 presidential elections, following the order and stabilization of the situation in the country, the team of the head of State, Viktor Yanuković, returned Ukraine to the economic growth trajectory. One important indicator of the integrity of the chosen route was the 5 per cent increase in Ukraine's GDP in seven months this year. Income from the consolidated budget increased by the first half by one and a half times, by 42 billion grevens. This has led to an increase in social standards. In what other country, despite the new strain of problems in the world economy, is budget payments now increasing by 20 per cent, and assistance for the birth of a child is increasing significantly? A good harvest — over 34 million tons of early grains — was collected by a third more than last year. As a result, Ukraine will have bread, which is very important in terms of rising food prices in the world. The infrastructure has been upgraded, including through the Euro-2012 preparations. New airports, bridges, decommissioning, hundreds of kilometres of new and renovated roads are being launched. The President outlined the major challenges of reforming the State and society, in fact, the national idea of building a prosperous, free, democratic, high-tech Ukraine as an integral part of a large European family. A set of modernization measures is already being implemented, including through the active work of the Supreme Council, amending budgetary and tax legislation, initiating judicial reform, laying the foundations for new land legislation, implementing a pilot project on health reform, and continuing to simplify business conditions. Strong fight against corruption remains a key factor in the success of reforms. The precedent established by the current authority for the irreparability of punishment for violations of the law must be an indispensable rule. Congratulations on the 20th anniversary of Ukraine's independence, the head of the European Commission, José Barroso, expressed the hope that negotiations on a political association of economic integration with the European Union would be concluded this year before the December summit “Ukraine-EU”. The Supreme Council should also carry out its part of legislative work in this regard. The achievement of these goals will make Ukraine an integral part of a single democratic Europe. The revitalization of the dialogue with the European Union is parallel to the development of mutually beneficial relations with our other strategic partners: Russia, China, the United States. It is essential, however, that we today conduct international negotiations on the basis of the protection of our national interests. Dear colleagues, the new political season will become key to determining the way for Ukraine to move forward. Parliament cannot afford to engage in political confrontations in order to fulfil the essential tasks before us.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-06-m0.u16	Yes, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-06-m0.u17	The alternative to confrontation is the negotiating table. I am convinced that the goal of most of the people in this room is to increase the well-being of the people. And the means to achieve it are the work of reforming the country. All colleagues are invited by the faction of the Party of the Regions to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-06-m0.u18	The word is given by Oleg Zarubinsky of the faction of the People’s Party. Prepare Taras Blackwall.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-06-m0.u19	Oleg Zarubinski, People's Party. Dear colleagues! Respectable citizens! Today, going through the 20-year rubble of Ukrainian independence, many have come to the conclusion: the gains and losses, the prospects and the hopes that we have left behind over the past two decades. But were we wrong to choose independence? No, of course not. We made a mistake by trusting experts, perhaps experts, but not understanding our mentality, to form a new economic model. And in fact, all the time, catching up and copying someone when this person moved forward. We were "divorced," promised fast money, and instead took what we had. We've chosen a good goal, but we haven't found our way. When the people voted for independence on December 1, 1991, no one agreed to live in a state where the gap between the poor and the rich would be one of the greatest in Europe. In a society where money is stronger than morality. As a result, the rich became even richer because of the poorer the majority. Respect for man’s work was lost. A new ideal — man deprived of all morals and humanity, man’s wallet, and solely his wallet — was artificially planted. The economic model that exists in Ukraine needs to be changed and, sooner or later, everyone will understand. What should we do to return to the path we supported 20 years ago? First and foremost. Not in words, but actually putting a person in the center of politics. Its interests should be a goal, not a means of all reforms. Only then will we be able to make real transformations, and only then will we have protection against financial, economic crises becoming social crises. So it's not money, it's not statistics, it's citizens, it's the purpose of the state. The other one. Give up blindly following the advice of so - called experts. Ukraine still has its own potential for reform and its own view of implementation. To this day, can anyone believe that outside the country, they are just thinking about how to grow up a powerful competitor? Holy existence, or unseen infantilism. Third. If the state is called upon to play a significant role in our mentality, then it must protect both every citizen and itself from the attempts of different groups to make quick money on us. Moreover, in today's conditions, only a state can resist the aggressive power and permissiveness of financial and economic corporations. Four. It's also an ongoing task to stop the process of turning Ukrainian citizens into a mass of eternal ploughs, an endless expectation of another social tax. At the same time, failure to comply with the social protection rules, a bunch of declared social expenses and benefits is unknown to whom and is unknown in a country where education, medicine, especially children, human work, needs to be paid so that in a country only the weak and everyone else can be encouraged to work with high productivity through adequate pay. In this regard, the People’s Party raises the issue of the urgency of raising the wage of a unit of self - worth. Work, not social taxes, should be beneficial to a person. So if we give the Ukrainian citizens their faith back, we will return it to them.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-06-m0.u20	Taras Blackwall, please, your right to speak from the Reform Group for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-06-m0.u21	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues of the Ukrainian National Deputies, first of all allow me to welcome you with the beginning of the ninth session and with the 20th anniversary of our independence, which we all celebrated recently. There is no longer any doubt that Ukraine, as an independent great European state, has taken place. Yet all of us, colleagues, must remember that the process of State making is complex and fragile, it is still going on, and you and I must be primarily involved in this process, as much as many would not want to take Parliament away from making key decisions in the state. I would like to make a few points directly related to our work, which I am convinced will only benefit Ukraine. In recent times, some high - ranking officials have talked about the need to unite the Tax Administration and the Customs Service. The members of the Reforms for the Future faction have one basic question: who would benefit from such a union and what its consequences might be? We are convinced that the mechanical merger of the Tax Administration and the Customs Service does not solve the issue of modernizing them and reforming them. On the contrary, such a union threatens the emergence of a powerful state monster that will only turn on green light with new corruption schemes and abuse. Merged tax and customs into one structure without updating the strategy and tactics of their work can lead to a collapse in the process of filling the State Budget, and it is no longer able to create favourable conditions for the development of domestic entrepreneurship and attractive investment climate in the country. It seems to us that the loud statements about the need to create a single tax-mite service are political games, the only goal of which is to focus huge financial flows in one hand. If the prime minister of Ukraine believes that such a restructuring will help to stop the abuses that unfortunately have their place today, he is very much mistaken. The mechanical transfer of officials from one office to another nowhere else in the world has led to the overcoming of corruption. Therefore, the Reformation for the Future faction is strongly opposed to such a union, viewing it as an anti-reform and dangerous step. It is a surprise to the deputies of our faction that the government has recently announced plans for the restructuring of Naftogazu NAC. We firmly stand in the position that similar issues cannot be resolved by the government alone without comprehensive parliamentary consultations and agreements with all the political forces present in the Supreme Council. Risking political debate on this issue can only change the relevant legislation that was adopted in the Supreme Council and that only we can make in this room. Naftogaz is one of the strategic objects of our nation. It is therefore very important to reach consensus with Parliament on the difficult issue of its restructuring. And lastly, I want to draw our attention to a kind of culinary style that the government is demonstrating in the government's work on the state budget. We are convinced that it is necessary to involve all parliamentary factions, all parliamentary committees, actively cooperate with them, then we can get a document that at the entrance of Parliament can get the best estimate of deputies and be quickly accepted, and effectively, to work properly. And to do that, we really need to get the government to do the best possible cooperation with Parliament. I would also like to say a few words about Bill No. 8723 – amending some Ukrainian Privatisation Laws, which is proposed to be excluded from the list of non-privatisation objects, about 700 companies that are branded, showcase to Ukraine. We believe that in the form in which the project cannot be voted on, it needs substantial work. And finally, I want to point out that the Reform for the Future faction is literally five seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-06-m0.u22	Yes, please finish. Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-06-m0.u23	It will actively support real information steps. But it has to be, in fact, reforms, first. And secondly, we want to hear our voice, our faction, like any other member of the Supreme Council, to listen to our amendments, to make constructive adjustments count, then there will be a result, then our laws will not have to blush. And I urge everyone to work constructively, and I hope that this session will be a session that the Ukrainian Parliament can be proud of. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-06-m0.u24	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! The factions' statements have been completed traditionally with regard to the proposals contained or contained in the statements made by the deputies, and I ask the secretariat to prepare the necessary referrals and assignments. Dear National Deputies! We are in line with the Supreme Council Rules to work according to the plan, to consider approving the order of the day of the ninth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the sixth call. Ladies and gentlemen, at the Conciliation Board meeting, we discussed and agreed on such a mechanism of consideration. Vote on the basis of the proposed project and then specifically for those chapters. And the result of the vote is to make the final decision. In accordance with the Rules, honourable colleagues are invited to the draft agenda for the ninth session of the Supreme Council of the Sixth Council, first of all, to the questions that have been prepared for consideration at the plenary meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and such questions 175. Next. In the second chapter, the questions dealt with in the committee are 606. That's 781 questions. In total, it's over 800 draft laws. Next. There are apps, respectable colleagues. First plugin. This is a list of bills that the committees have concluded in their previous consideration not to include in the agenda of the ninth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the sixth occasion that they have lost their relevance or are governed by other laws that have already been adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine that have become effective. These are 170 bills. Then comes Appendix Two. It contains a list of bills that are proposed by individual MPs to be removed from the agenda of the ninth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the sixth call. These are the laws of the 14th. And finally, Appendix Three. This is a list of drafts not recommended by committees for inclusion in the agenda of the ninth session, which are urged by individual deputies and MPs. These are the laws of the 35th. Dear colleagues, I accept such an algorithm that I'm voting on the proposal for acceptance as the basis of the whole package, and then we're going to vote first and second chapters separately, and then we're going to vote on the supplements. What remains to be maintained, we will consider and decide to approve the draft agenda as the order of the day session. Is there no objection? So I put to the vote the proposal to adopt as the basis for the draft order of the ninth session of the Supreme Council of the Sixth Call without exception. Please vote. Based on the base. [[12:35:34]] For 270. Decision taken. I now put to the vote the proposal to include in the agenda of the day's first and second chapters, which make up the only whole, namely, the issues that are already being prepared by the committees and the issues that need further work on the committees. Please vote. [[12:36:11]] For 270. Decision taken. Now, dear fellows, let's go to the apps. I first put to the vote the number one appendix on the list of bills that committees have concluded that their previous consideration is not proposed to include in the agenda of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the sixth call. Please, Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-06-m0.u25	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I appeal to you and address you, Your Honor Vladimir Mikhailovich, with the request that you reconcile this action with the Constitution. The Constitution gives every national MP the right to legislative initiative. Now, with this appendix, first and second, you are subjective, without listening to that national MP, to remove all the laws that have been registered. You're denying this same right to the legislative initiative of this national MP. This would be understandable if we gave the committees authority to introduce other laws to which amendments were made. Because we're going the wrong way, we're going the hard way, and you're talking about almost 4,000 laws in your speech today. That's the wrong way to go. But this is unclear and unconstitutional in view of today’s Rules. That's why I'm suggesting no.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-06-m0.u26	Thank you. Dear colleagues, once again, with regard to our colleague Yuri Karmazin's speech, I would like you to know that the committees have made the appropriate decisions and have made a proposal to the Supreme Council: not to include in the agenda 170 laws that have already lost their relevance or have been regulated by other legislative acts. In view of this, make a decision. I am voting for the inclusion in the agenda of the Bills of Supplement No. 1, which committees, on the basis of their previous consideration, propose not to include in the agenda of the ninth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the sixth call.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-06-m0.u27	Oh, no, Carmazin's offering. Yeah, actually, it's Karmazin's offer. I am voting for inclusion in the draft agenda, as required by the Rules, and I am proposing an honourable colleague, Yuri Carmazin. Please identify yourself. [[12:39:01]] For the 15th. The decision is not supported. Now, honourable colleagues, vote on the proposal to include in the agenda the daily bills contained in Appendix Two, which are proposed. which MP factions suggest not to include various motivations in the draft agenda. Please, Mikhailo Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-06-m0.u28	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! We support the proposal not to include the two bills in the list. Except for Bill 7562. This is a draft State Guarantees Act for the enforcement of court decisions. This is what we propose to include, necessarily include. And the rest. 7562 please include. The rest can be voted in favour of non-inclusion.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-06-m0.u29	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Please, Anatoly Gritsenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-06-m0.u30	Dear colleagues! 7562, I remind you, this is a bill. It's about the State's guarantees of enforcement. And it went to the committee of Kiwalov. But in fact, the additions to this bill actually cancel out the aids and the Supreme Council's right to form the foundations of social policy, as defined by the Constitution, and amend 17 bills. The benefits are eliminated from miners, medics, veterans, disabled people, and blackbacks of all categories. That's the first one. And the second. Changes are being made to the Pipeway Transport Act to allow the privatisation of the strategic gas pipeline. There is no way to include this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-06-m0.u31	Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-06-m0.u32	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! I wanted to remind you that on June 14, 2011, the Supreme Council adopted completely unconstitutional amendments to the Budget Act, which gave the government the right to regulate payments by hand to black people, children of war, veterans, pensioners and other socially vulnerable categories of citizens. Millions of people throughout the country are outraged by this decision of the Supreme Council. A group of people's deputies appealed to the Constitutional Court for recognition of such actions by the Supreme Council and the President, who had signed these amendments, in a manner that did not correspond to the Constitution. The bill that is now proposing to us to include Chechetov's day colleague in the order of the day is similar. It is aimed at depriving millions of Ukrainian citizens of their rights under the law of social rights. This is an anti-constitutional bill. And in the case of inclusion in the agenda of the Supreme Council, it confirms that it does not care about people’s interests, but cares only for their own interests.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-06-m0.u33	Thank you. Gregory Smythuch, please, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-06-m0.u34	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I have a question on the following subject. The bill, which I signed, was considered by the Supreme Council in the first reading of 1289 on the legalization of the earnings of legal and natural persons from 14.04. In 2009, something so far has not been introduced into the Supreme Council. I would like to understand why the rules of the Constitution, the rules of our Rules are being violated, and why is the attitude that such a law is written today being considered and there is no other law? Is it time for us to introduce a system of such orderliness, so to speak, that the law as we submit to the Supreme Council should be considered in turn? On this point, I ask the secretariat to clarify what is wrong with this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-06-m0.u35	I'm asking the secretariat to give me immediate assistance on the bill registration number 1189. Am I right? 1289? 1289, which is what my colleague Smith was just talking about. Taras Chernobyl, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-06-m0.u36	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, in Appendix Two, there was some very strange inclusion of drafts. One faction that has, let's say, a little bit more than 20 people make a decision that they don't like some kind of bill, and in that case we're not in line with the principles that mean that the bill that has been adopted by other regulated standards is in Appendix One, where it really makes sense. In this case, without any completely constitutional or regulatory rules, someone just doesn't like it, and we're changing the will of Parliament by a decision of 20 with something. There are a number of questions about the same distinctions, such as certain memorable dates; and then the auxiliary motherhood, which has been introduced by the members of our faction, which have not been considered by Parliament at all. And I think this logic that's applied is just unacceptable. There is therefore a request, not selectively, but in general to vote for the inclusion of Appendix Two of all the bills to be considered, but further, something that does not like them, Parliament will reject them.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-06-m0.u37	Dear colleagues, have you all spoken? That's my offer. Now I propose to follow procedure, as we vote in favour of assigning judges on an indefinite basis. If some questions have arisen in the bill, we are now removing them from this Appendix number two, namely Bill 7562, the State Guarantees Act on the Enforcement of Judgments and Bill 8703 on Auxiliary Motherhood. I'm gonna say, well, listen. Let's discuss the inclusion of two without these laws in the order of the day, and then vote separately for the inclusion in the order of the day of these two laws and all. Just like we always do. So I, my honourable colleagues, am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda the bills contained in Appendix Two, with the exception of Bills 7562 and 8703. I'd like to make up my mind. [[12:45:50]] For 185 The decision is not taken. Now, dear fellows, may I have your attention? I'm putting a motion to the vote, please pay attention, Your Honor, to the inclusion in the agenda of the State Guarantees Act on the enforcement of court decisions. Please vote. [[12:46:24]] For 209 The decision is not taken. I would like to place a motion for inclusion in the agenda of the Assisting Motherhood Act. [[Registration number 8703]] Please vote. [[12:46:50]] For-43 The decision is not taken. Last offer. I'm betting on voting a proposal to put two laws into the agenda in a package. [[7562, 8703]] Please vote. [[12:47:18]] For 210 The decision is not taken. So the plugin. Dear colleagues, they have already voted. Thus, respectable colleagues, appendix number two, did not find support. Now appendix number three to the draft agenda for the ninth session, which contains a list of bills that committees propose not to consider, but the deputies insist on their consideration. I'm voting on the proposal to include Appendix Three in the draft agenda. [[12:48:06]] For 270. Decision taken. So, honourable national MPs, I'm voting for inclusion in the agenda. on the adoption of the agenda of the day session, which will consist of chapter one, chapter two and appendix three. Please vote. [[12:48:43]] For 268. The order of the ninth session of the Supreme Council of the Sixth Assembly was approved. Dear National Deputies! Now let's move on to the question. Let me put it this way: on the situation surrounding the adoption of the July 8th Ukrainian Law on Measures for Legislative Reform of the Pension System. Dear National Deputies! Following the adoption of this law, two Ukrainian national deputies – Olga Bodnar and Jury Karmazin, who claim in the motivating part that during the consideration of this law violations were committed in relation to article 48 of the Rules, namely, that the Supreme Council of Ukraine had accepted this issue in due time, and you know that the final decision was taken about the first hour of 30 minutes, and that there were not enough deputies in the session room. The Committee on Regulatory and Ethical Affairs considered this issue, to which I referred the relevant documents, and concluded that the Supreme Council of Ukraine should not support the legislative initiative of the national MPs, which is the proposal: to cancel the decision of the Supreme Council on adoption in second reading and as a whole as a bill of the draft Ukrainian Law on the legislative measures for the reform of the pension system. At the same time, in the process of drafting the law for signature, the Legal Authority and the Committee, in accordance with Article 131, have made proposals to take into account, once again in accordance with Article 131, a number of points, to consider them by the Supreme Council in order to make the law logical and consistent so that its individual rules do not conflict with other legislative acts and then send the President of Ukraine to sign the document. So, dear colleagues, I suggest you consider this question, as it were, taking into account two suggestions. First offer of honorary colleague Yuri Karmazin If it is not supported, then proceed to the vote, namely, the amendments proposed in accordance with Article 131. So I'm putting a motion for a vote to consider the initiative of National Deputy Yuri Karmazin for short.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-06-m0.u38	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-06-m0.u39	No, no. Short procedure, because you're reporting. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. The consideration of 131 articles is clearly regulated by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So I would like to take a look at the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which is sponsored by Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin under a reduced procedure. [[Registration number 7455-p1]] Please vote. [[12:52:37]] For 230 Decision taken. Please, Yuri Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-06-m0.u40	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! I turned to the letter, where on the four pages I showed unconstitutionality and consideration of the matter, and the unconstitutionality of the provisions adopted. Unfortunately, this time that you're giving, this short-term procedure will not allow anything to be said, but I want to stop at this point: out of the 248 people who voted, 61 were not registered, and most of these 61 were not in Kiev at all. Some of them were not within Ukraine at all. I'm not going to call now a list of all the national MPs. I have it, I have prepared to declare this law unconstitutional through the Constitutional Court. But let's look at legislation in a different way. When the legal office for second reading wrote that in preparing for the second reading, the bill had been greatly improved, because as a result of taking the proposals out of it, a number of provisions that did not meet the requirements of the Constitution had been removed, now the project proposed by Vladimir Mikhajlovich, you and the alleged technical settlement, was the mass of violations of the Constitution: articles 21, 22, 24, 46 of the Constitution, this was also an increase in the retirement age for women up to 60 years, which was not consistent with constitutional principles, this and the rights of women who were entitled to pensions in accordance with special laws, this was also the acquisition of the right of men to receive pensions in accordance with special laws after reaching 62 years of age. It's also an increase in the legal duration and the life expectancy of men and women for ten years, and it's also an application of the average salary rate for three calendar years, that's a lot more.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-06-m0.u41	Finish it, Yuri Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-06-m0.u42	These are still numerous positions that significantly reduce the pension and aggravate the situation of our Ukrainian citizens. As a result, an anticonstitutional law that violates the Constitution contrary to and by clarifying the Constitutional Court must be repealed. I ask you to cancel and not vote for the proposals that then follow the signing of the Head of the Supreme Council of Lithuania, because the profiling committee has not even considered them, and these hearings have not been heard at all. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-06-m0.u43	Dear colleagues! Who will report from the Regulatory Committee? I can't see. The decision of the Standing Committee is given to you, Your Honor. Who will report from the Regulatory Committee? Please, head of the Committee on Rules of Procedure and Deputy Ethics and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council, Vladimir MacKeenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-06-m0.u44	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! Indeed, to carry out the mandate of the Head of the Supreme Council on 13 July, the Committee, at its meeting on 15 July this year, considered the application of the Ukrainian National Deputies Bodnar and Carmazin to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of Lithuania on 8 July, concerning violations of the Constitution of Ukraine and the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules during the consideration of the draft Ukrainian Law on Legislative Security Measures, the reform of the pension system at number 7455. Parliamentary address of Ukrainian deputy Karmazin from 8 July 2011 to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Lithuania, Vladimir Mikhailovich, on the application of measures to restore the constitutional rights of Ukrainian national deputies and the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt a second reading and, as a whole, as a bill of the draft law on the legislative security and reform of the pension system of 31.05. In 2011, introduced by the Ukrainian National Deputies Bodnar, Carmazin, number 7455-p1 from 08.07.2011. Taking into account the above, and that the eighth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the Sixth Convening concluded its work in plenary on 8 July 2011, and that it began its work today on 6 September 2011, the Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that it consider it inappropriate to consider the draft Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt a second reading and, as a whole, the draft law of the Ukrainian Law on the provision and reform of the pension system of 31.05. In 2011, introduced by the Ukrainian National Deputies Bodnar and Carmazin at number 7455-p1 from 08.07.2011. In case.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-06-m0.u45	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-06-m0.u46	In case of consideration, reject it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-06-m0.u47	Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up for the discussion. Names of the national MPs, please. Olga Bodnar. I'm sorry, Oleg Lazko, please. Then Mikhailo Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-06-m0.u48	Thank you very much. I want Ukraine to know its heroes. One of them is Alexander Bondar, who didn't vote in favour of this bill and allows me to speak. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! This bill cannot be signed just for that reason that half of those who seemed to vote for it were at this time resting in the Golden Sands with their mistresses and wives. Most importantly, why this bill can't be signed, because this is an anti-human bill in its essence, this is a bill aimed at genocide of Ukrainian citizens, primarily people of retirement age who gave up their lives, they gave up health for us to sit in this room, and today you're bullying these people. Because when you adopt this law, and a government that doesn't even listen to the voice of the community, and most parliamentary, you don't tell people all the truth behind this law. Why don't you tell Ukrainian women that the insurance period that gives you the right to a pension, which is 30 years, does not include a period of maternity leave, does not include hospitals, does not include vacations. Why don't you tell people with disabilities that they have 15 years of insurance to get a pension? Normal people with arms, legs, millions of Ukrainian citizens are unable to work. Where has the disabled been working for 15 years? After all, not all of them can be a deputy or your assistant and mate, do nothing and screw the money with a shovel. Millions of Ukrainians across the country are taking pots behind Europeans for pennies, and millions of Ukrainian citizens are sitting in the country without work, without pay. Every question at every meeting I've spent all summer is where we work, where we earn money. And today, without answering that question, without giving people the opportunity to earn, to work, you raise their retirement age. In fact, you only do one thing -- you deprive them of their pension rights. That is why I strongly deny this law and demand that the Head of the Supreme Council not sign it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-06-m0.u49	Thank you. Mikhailo Chechetov, faction of the Party of the Regions. Jaroslav Suhi, right? Jaroslav Suhi, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-06-m0.u50	Dear colleagues, yes, it turns out that we are getting involved in the discussion of Bill 7455, and in fact we are discussing a draft decision that was made by colleagues Carmazin and Bodnar. I wouldn't want to be here commenting on the man who was just standing on the stand, about the Golden Sands, probably more visible to him. But a three - year - old caregiver is in retirement. You don't have to lie from the Supreme Council's rostrum, because if you don't know, take the law and read it. Now it's specific. Dear colleagues, I remind you that on the day this bill was voted, and there were warnings about the appearance of Ukrainian national deputies, the entire Counting Commission of the Supreme Council was present: the head of the Counting Commission, the deputy head of the Counting Commission, the secretary and the members of the Counting Commission. What at that time prevented coworkers who were making a decision today from making a draft decision. And we would vote that the Counting Commission would register or re-register the presence. Today, it is loudly stated that there were no 60 or no 240. The other one. About time. Well, if you'll excuse me, this isn't the first time we've taken our time to adopt the law without interrupting it. As a matter of fact, it has been called with pride on several occasions when the Constitution of Ukraine was adopted during the day, in the evening, in the morning, so as not to interrupt the consideration of the matter. One more thing. You know, people listen to us. And I'm asking you who's going to this rostrum to talk about pension reform. Have courage, courage, at least read how many kinds of pensions are paid in Ukraine, which is the principle of the calculation of these pensions. And offer your options in connection with this horrendous demographic situation that has arisen objectively and in view of the fact that since 2005, we have stopped the reform of the pension system. Offer something of yours, offer a real solution, and we will be most grateful. So I propose that this draft decision be rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-06-m0.u51	Alla Alexandrovska, Communist faction. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-06-m0.u52	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! Vladimir Mihajlovich, I address you personally. We were handed out today with a document issued by the Rules Committee. And today, from the regulatory committee, in fact, the substance of the document has been set out. But please listen carefully to the extract from this ruling of the regulatory committee. In particular, the last paragraph is stated on page 3. "According to article 130 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the text of the law adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine shall not be later than 10 days in which it is drawn up by the Main Committee, shall be displayed by the persons concerned and shall be signed by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which shall not earlier than 2 days from the date of its submission, and shall not later be signed by the law, except in the cases provided for by the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In the event of a breach of the legislative procedure, which may result in a vote being annulled, the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine does not sign the law without considering the two-day deadlines for the reasoned proposals of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the order provided for in article 48 of the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, as set out above. Dear colleagues! Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! There is no law under number 7455 at present. This rule, which is set out by the Committee, shows what you should have done. What should have been organized in the walls of the Supreme Council in relation to all the bills and, in particular, to that. This was not done. Thus, all procedures for the passage of draft laws, as dictated by the Supreme Council Rules, have been violated. And today this law does not exist in nature, and it does not exist in nature. Therefore, I am surprised at why there is no normal issue on the agenda today. It should be normally voted on the agenda. And in that language.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-06-m0.u53	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-06-m0.u54	Under this formulation of the agenda, we should have received a draft decree from the Supreme Council. What do you suggest we vote on? Nothing. So, please, stop this debate. Don't embarrass the Supreme Council. And let us, if we must return to this issue, return as required by the Rules. There is now no voting document relevant to the alleged law in July. There is no bill. No document. There's nothing to adjust. There's nothing to change. It doesn't exist.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-06-m0.u55	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! Question completed. Before the vote. Dear colleagues! I would like to ask you not only to read the position that is at present interesting in order to justify your position. The head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine did not have the right to sign the law, in accordance with article 48, since a legislative proposal came from the Ukrainian national deputy, and the Supreme Council did not work during that period. So let's not go looking for the guilty in this regard. I'm begging you, I've been listening. The second question. While working on this bill, the legal authorities, as well as the committee and deputy head of the Committee on Social Policy, said that there were inaccuracies and discrepancies in this law. I beg of you, dear fellows, I beg of you. So I brought up two of these questions. It might not be possible to ask the first question, but in view of the sensitivity of this problem, the Supreme Council should make a responsible and responsible decision. I say again, you read article 131, which should be the draft decision. Please. And the draft decision of the national deputy is given out, is a draft decision. Therefore, honourable colleagues, I am voting on a draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to repeal the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt the second reading and, as a whole, as a bill of the draft Law on Measures to Ensure Reform of the Pension System (number 7455 of 31.05). [[Registration number 7455-1]] In 2011 Please be sure. [[13:08:24]] For-52 The decision is not taken. Now, dear colleagues, let us turn to the second part of this issue. Once again, a number of inaccuracies, contradictions and differences have been identified in the preparation of the law for signature and processing in technical law, including proposals from. I'm asking you once again, dear colleagues, we're giving out what should be on the way out, do you understand? According to the Rules, when appropriate, it is signed by the Head of the Supreme Council and referred to the Supreme Council of Ukraine for consideration. And according to the Rules, please listen, and the Rules do not need to be consulted by the Committee if that is the case, including the need for a regulatory committee. But given the irregularity of this situation, I sent him back to the appropriate committee. That's why I'm asking you. Dear colleagues, I will put to the vote each proposal separately, as required by the Rules. I'll read it to you, I'll read it. In accordance with article 131 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules for the Elimination of Disagreements, the following proposal is made for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. First, delete paragraph 5 of Section II from the text of the adopted law on the execution of pensions as of 1 January 2012, calculated under the Ukrainian Act on National Compulsory Pension Insurance, applying the average wage rates of employees employed in the Ukrainian economy for 2006-2008, with the application of the 2009 index, since the mentioned standard is not in line with article 42 of the Ukrainian Law on General Compulsory State Pension Insurance and the changes made to it to take effect on 1 September 2011. I'll bet you a vote. Please vote. [[13:10:45]] For 245 Decision taken. The factions, please. Region Party – 187, "BUT – "Fathership" – 0, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 10, communists – 0, "Reforms for the Future" – 18, National Party – 20, non-factional – 10. I'm announcing a second proposal. In order to avoid disagreements in the application of the provisions of the adopted law on the establishment of a boundary age, 62 years for men, to remain in the state service, diplomatic service and service in the local self-government bodies is proposed to supplement Chapter II of the Final and Transitional Provisions of the Act with a new paragraph establishing that men who have reached the age of service, diplomatic service, service at the local self-government bodies of 62 years of age and who, on the date of entry into force of this law, are in accordance with the State, diplomatic service or service at the local self-government bodies on the basis of a decision adopted by law to extend their term of service may be held in accordance with the State, diplomatic service or at the local self-government bodies until the end of such extension. Entity. [[B in m in s a l in]] One minute! The substance of the amendment, respected colleagues, is that if the law takes effect, after 62 years the civil servant has no right to work. But now there's a group of government officials who have been allowed to continue in the public service, let's say, up to 65 years old. So it is suggested that these people have the opportunity to complete their work. Dear colleagues! Wait a minute! In accordance with the Rules, the initiator has the right to initiate an amendment. Is there a desire to speak? None. Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up. One minute, please. Five minutes. Names, please. Arsenius Yatsenuk, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-06-m0.u56	Dear colleagues! Everything that has been said does not correspond to reality. The reason for not voting the law in the next. The president did not sign the law in view of the fact that the law provided for the recalculation of pensions for 10 million pensioners and an increase of 334 pension dollars for each Ukrainian pensioner. This was the reason why the Head of Parliament did not sign it and that the President did not sign it either. They're against recalculation and retirement for 10 million pensioners. The International Monetary Fund has now refused to negotiate with Ukraine in view of their view that it is not necessary to recalculate pensions. That is what today’s vote is about. Everything else is a lie. They don't want to count their pension, they still want to draw money to the budget, they still want to spend that money on state residence and housing, and they want to increase the pension for 10 million pensioners, as provided for by the law, they refused.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-06-m0.u57	Alexander Stoyan, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-06-m0.u58	Please pass the word to Jaroslav Sukh.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-06-m0.u59	Jaroslav Suhi, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-06-m0.u60	Dear colleagues, I understand that in a year's time, and here you can use the Supreme Council of Ukraine's square for pyar. But in this case, I'm pointing out to you that we're discussing a particular problem. And listen to what it looked like, indeed, is the mass of government officials who, by virtue of those or other circumstances, the General Government of the State has extended the term of office to 65 years. We, by adopting this bill, somehow cut them off. Thus, it is necessary to make changes not only to 62 but to the extent that they have been extended to serve in the public service. Why is the International Monetary Fund here? With someone here talking about the ordinary thing, in haste, when we voted, we missed this very important event that is taking place for every civil servant who has gone out on deserved rest. So I'm asking you to support this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-06-m0.u61	Paul Zebravsky, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-06-m0.u62	Dear colleagues, as much as you can say and charge that we're about to make elections and then we're not going to adopt any social law because, you see, in a year's time, we're going to have an election. In fact, it's not fair to focus on that alone. Because, my friends, my colleague, before that, I just remember how you were doing, how you were campaigning on the social issues of legislation. Today you have changed your position because the seat is the point of thinking. As far as this amendment is concerned, it is not equal. In fact, the extension was only the State Service. The State Service continued until 65 years of age. The decision of the State Service is subject to a legal act. Today, we adopt the law, the law says: 62 years and a dot. Why is there a legal act today that does not accept it? By adopting this amendment, we will then put the law above the law, which is wrong and I propose not to vote in favour of this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-06-m0.u63	Yuri, Yuri Klukkowski, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-06-m0.u64	Thank you. Yuri Klukkowski. Well, first of all, it's not the subject of this law, it's the second reading of the new edition of the Civil Service Act, which was introduced by this authority. And this law preserves the existing rule on the borderline of non-State service for 65 years. Therefore, there is no need for pension law to interfere with the scope of the State Service Act. Secondly, the reduction in the current retirement age of civil servants is a reduction in the amount of constitutional right to participate in the administration of state affairs. The Constitution prohibits the adoption of laws that restrict the scope of constitutional law. So let's not do anything stupid, and as the famous Ukrainian writer once said, "Swiss know your own stuff, and don't get involved in the tailoring."
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-06-m0.u65	And Mikhailo Chechetov, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-06-m0.u66	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! I want to move away from Mr. Klukkowski's last phrase. We've had so many populist laws under this roof in 20 years, so much nonsense! How the roof of Parliament has not been broken! And the result is that in 20 years we cannot reach the level of the 1990s. 70 percent, at best, since the 1990s, we have this price of populism, this is the price of lying when we lied to ourselves and people. That's why the amendment has to be adopted, it's absolutely adequate, it's totally in line with the body of the law. With the adoption of the following amendment, the law shall be signed and implemented. It needs people, it needs a country. And it's true, it's not a lie, it's a perspective. Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-06-m0.u67	Yuri Bogdanovich, let's work this out: we'll finish the question, then you get the right to. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, we're in the process! Well, please, Yuri Klukkowski, a replica.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-06-m0.u68	I am very grateful to the conductor of the faction of the region for mentioning my last name especially on the roof. I'm really sorry that some people in this room have a roof and a contract with those who command them, and they don't have their own thoughts under that roof for a long time, and they're starting to do what they've been denying all along. I want to emphasize once again that this amendment is unacceptable because it interferes with the regulation of another law. And that's why he's creating a coalition, and he's violating the Constitution. Let's lower the roof on your head, cool your brains and think a little bit.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-06-m0.u69	Five minutes, done. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to vote on the number two proposal. Dear colleagues! We're five minutes away from the faction. Please, you'll be next. Please vote. [[13:19:44]] For 226 There's no motive. Now, dear fellows. The factions, please. Region Party - 188, "BUT – Fatherland" – 0, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 8, communists – 0, "Reforms for the Future" – 0, National Party – 20, non-fractional – 10. The third offer. Excluding paragraph 2 of section II, paragraph 5, of the adopted law, which amends the Law on Financial Services and Public Regulation of the Financial Services Markets, as part of the addition of the list of financial institutions to the new subject, the Pension Fund of Ukraine, because before the conversion of the Pension Fund of Ukraine into a profitable, self-governance organization, the designated fund functions as the central body of the executive authority. It's about respectable colleagues, one minute, it's about what's premature, because it's about balancing the income and expenses of the Pension Fund. So please sign in, and we'll explain for five minutes. May I have the names of the people's deputies on the board? Jaroslav Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-06-m0.u70	Dear colleagues! Believe me, this amendment no longer has anything to do with suffering, pain, and elections. And others, of course, had reform. And you, your honor, yes, either you're reformers, or you're conservatives, or you're taking the future to Ukraine and you're pulling us back. You won't understand, you're behind the reforms, you're fighting against the wall. The pension fund functions as the central authority of the executive branch, and it cannot have a pension service function. What's so extraordinary about this? It's pretty clear that a mistake has been made, and we're going to fix it right now, and it's not going to hurt, and the Pension Fund has done as well as will do its job. And one more thing. I remind you all, you're in the hall, like, with a roof or a pair of pants or no pants, and you remember that today, the Pension Fund is the only social contribution that administrations and distributes. What financial functions can he perform? I propose to maintain this amendment calmly and without hysteria.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-06-m0.u71	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-06-m0.u72	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen of the people, Reverend Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Contrary to the Rules, we are now considering amendments by a national MP. Arsenius Petrovich Yatzenuk was absolutely right when he spoke about the first part of the amendment that was taken into account when this anticonstitutional law was passed. Of course, and in view of the amendment, a little softened, let us say, the rights of citizens and the harm done by the adoption of this law. I call upon today all the national MPs who are in this room, all the amendments to this law, like this whole law, which is unconstitutional, which is written in the conclusion of the General Legal Authority, and now there is no conclusion here, you have not drawn a conclusion, you are unconstitutional. As a result, they cannot be accepted. This is the path to civil disobedience. I'm warning you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-06-m0.u73	Taras Blackwall, MP's Reform for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-06-m0.u74	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, as far as this amendment is concerned, we don't have any warnings, but here the arguments that Jaroslav Suhim cited are in principle sufficient. But I want to go back to the last one. I wasn't given a word, I didn't go out on time. Everyone said general things, and there is a totally direct coalition with the recently signed President's Law on Diplomatic Service, where clearly specific laws, the regulations for retirement of those or other diplomatic officials, officials, including certain standards for an extraordinary ambassador and a full-fledged ambassador. The principle of Roman law is a special law, its rules have primacy over laws, over universal law. In this case, it was completely absurd. By universal law, the universal wave cancels the act signed by the President of today’s Law on Diplomatic Service. I think we should accept the logic that Klukkowski suggested and go back to the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-06-m0.u75	And Ivan Sidelnik, the MP's group "Reforms for the Future."
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-06-m0.u76	Third time this, Taras Cranvill asks for his word, and you don't give it to him. Give him a chance to finish his speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-06-m0.u77	Well, thank you. I'm just gonna finish. I've already tried to suppress the speech. So once again, after this amendment that we're discussing right now, obviously we can support it, but let's go back to the previous one, let's vote, remove the diplomatic service from there, and even better, delete this rule in general, let it be regulated by special laws, to whom we should retire. The State Service Act is, the law on diplomatic service is. It is not the rate of pension, it is not the amount that is determined, it is the date of retirement. It has its own logic. Let's not break the system of legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-06-m0.u78	Paul Mokchan, group of Reforms for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-06-m0.u79	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, it must be said that there was a mistake. And there is no need today to look for any further arguments to make up for the mistake that was quickly voted on that night. And so, of course, we needed frank comments, mostly Sergey Leonidovich, vice-premier, who sat and controlled the entire course of this legislative process. So I would like to hear his personal opinion on what happened. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-06-m0.u80	Valerius Bondik, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-06-m0.u81	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, your esteemed colleagues, really, should be reformed and should accept this norm, but I do not agree with our colleague at the Reformation for the Future faction. Why, because in a colossal special and general law, it actually works, it's special, but it's the Constitution. And because the government is trying to reform in accordance with the Constitution and carry out pension reform, that's a noble thing, all it needs to do is help. But I took the floor only because I wanted to speak to Mr. Tihypek and Mr. Zeichuk, who are present in the cabinet. Dear colleagues, we need to pay attention to pension legislation. When it happens that sometimes retirees, doing general, as it were, community work, such as participating in electoral commissions, then they get a smaller pension, that is, going to calculate total income. And the Pension Fund should pay attention to that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-06-m0.u82	Thank you. Dear colleagues, vote number three. Please vote. [[13:27:17]] For 252 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, the fourth proposal. I'm announcing it. In view of the date of consideration of these proposals, it is proposed that the date of entry into force of this law be changed to October 1, 2011. In this connection, it is proposed that paragraphs 4 to 14 of Subparagraphs 4, 10 to 20 of Subparagraphs 8, 68 to 78 of Subparagraph 17, 5 to 15 of Subparagraph 19 of Section 5 of Section II of the Final and Transitional Positions be clarified accordingly. Please sign in. Five minutes. The names of the national deputies please be placed on the information board. Yuri Carmazin, then Oleg Lazko. Yuri Carmazin. The faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-06-m0.u83	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the point where it applies. The amendments apply when prosecutors and investigators, when they have the right to retire, also have very little meaning compared to what we leave in the law anti-constitutional positions. I'll remind you that the provisions of the laws that limited the social guarantees of individual categories of citizens and pension payments, including those previously assigned, were examined by the Constitutional Court, and the Constitutional Court found them unconstitutional. This is the decision of the Constitutional Court on July 6, 1999, March 20, 2002. This is the decision of the Constitutional Court on October 11, 2005, May 22, 2008. Anyway, you are.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-06-m0.u84	Yes, Oleg Lazko, non-factional. In addition to a minute for Oleg Láško’s performance, Stanislav Arzevetin gives. Two minutes, like that.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-06-m0.u85	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear citizens of Ukraine! Now, no exaggeration, the epoch of millions of you. First of all, Ukrainian pensioners. The way the majority now votes depends on what pensions you receive and whether you receive them at all. Because the law that prepared today's government, which is being adopted today, is being passed by the majority, is aimed at one thing: limiting the number of Ukrainian citizens who are entitled to pensions. Because in order for each of you to get a pension, women have to have 30 years of insurance, 35 men with disabilities 15 years of insurance. Millions of Ukrainian citizens have neither the ability to work nor the ability to earn. As a result, they will not have this insurance period, and as a result, they will not have a pension. And those who are still extorting this internship can die without waiting for this pension! That is what our government, today’s parliamentary majority, is leading to most Ukrainian citizens. Here colleagues from most of these mockingbirds asked: “Give your suggestions. ” I'll give you our suggestions. First. Cancel in that law that you're about to vote, the right to receive deputies, the officials of the annual material aid. No Ukrainian citizen receives 200,000 dollars of material aid on retirement! You're keeping it. And the government won't say a word about it! I propose not to be pensioners' deputies, to be prime minister of the pensioner and other seniors. Young people have to work, not retirees! Dozens who retire, who receive hundreds of thousands of dollars of financial assistance at the expense of the state budget, do not care about the interests of Ukrainian citizens! And so if you want to restore social justice, you have to, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, insist on removing from the body all the preferences that remain for officials and deputies, only then can you talk about social justice. Otherwise, this law does not have the right to life.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-06-m0.u86	Dear colleagues, dear colleague, I would like to give you a moment's notice, and I ask you not to accept the words that are written on the fences at an appropriate age, which does not add, I think, authority to everyone here. I am asking you, and at the same time, to inform you that this law provides for a double reduction of pensions for national deputies. So I have this impression that if we don't want to make this decision, obviously because we want to have that pension. Let us at least make that decision. One minute, please, let's be polite. Mikhailo Chechetov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-06-m0.u87	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! Once again, I ask the MPs to be more modest and a year before the election not to use public money for the pianar, using the funds, the budget. The law is objective, the law is realistic, and it meets today's financial and economic realities and tomorrow's. The most important thing here is not deception. I have already said that deception and populism have led to the fact that in 20 years we cannot reach the 1990 level. This law provides a perspective and establishes the trueness of the accrual and understanding of the people. And, of course, the absolute amendment is absolutely appropriate because today is 6 September, and we cannot introduce it as of 1 September, but we need to introduce it as of 1 October. I therefore ask to vote in favour of this amendment, and thus to light the green light on the way this law is put into effect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-06-m0.u88	Dear colleagues, I'm voting number four, I've spoken to her before the discussion. Please vote. [[13:33:47]] For 245 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, and one more. In view of the fact that we have voted 4 amendments, these proposals under Article 131 are taken into account, the law will require technical work in the renumbering of the relevant sections of Section II “To the Final and Transitional Positions”. Let's take this situation into account, I'll put it to a vote to do a proper renumbering when I prepare the final law for signature. Please vote. [[13:34:34]] For 248 Thus, honourable colleagues, the decision is made. That is, in accordance with the Rules, we do not need to vote in general, and decisions are considered to be acceptable. These amendments are taken into account, all the clarifications that have received the necessary votes, that is, more than 226. Honourable National MPs, two factions: the faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense" and the faction "BUT"- "Fatherhood" have filed a 30-minute recess announcement. They are willing to make a statement setting out the motives for such an appeal. And the request, after a minute and a half, there will be two speakers. Who will act? Arsenius Yatsenuk and Mikola Tomenko Please, Arsenius Yatzenuk, and then Mikola Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-06-m0.u89	Dear people of Ukraine! Today it was very interesting to hear a speech by the President of Ukraine, good words, but unfortunately, those words are completely different from those of action. The parliamentary session began with the fact that the vast majority had amended the Pension Reform Act. Not only did you raise your retirement age, but you didn't send your pensioners to a life of poverty, you just voted down the amendment that I made that required the government of Ukraine to recalculate pensions for 10 million pensioners and increase these pensions by 334 bracelets. What the vast majority is doing today is nothing more than mistreatment of the people. I can assure you that the opposition will appeal to the Constitutional Court for unconstitutional recognition of this decision. And I can assure you that any decision you make will require your responsibility. Including for this.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-06-m0.u90	Mikola Volodymyrovich Tomenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-06-m0.u91	Dear colleagues! The opposition in general and the Fatherland faction in particular pointed out that we do not deny the need for pension reform. Instead, we think that the strategy of ideology, as it was done, is unconstitutional, anti-national. Today, the President said that we are actively implementing reforms and that we still need to carry them out. Instead, the situation seems to be that there is no serious decision, no responsibility of the heads of district administrations or relevant officials on the need for decent wages and job creation in Ukraine. I traveled around Ukraine during the summer and found that the heads of the district administrations boasted about how much they had taken from entrepreneurs to build one for themselves, the other was to give a car. None of the heads of the district administration reported how many jobs he created that he created conditions for the investments he had involved. Today, statistics, even what we have, are talking about total job cuts between small and medium-sized businesses, closures, raids on businesses that work normally. I have a question. How are you going to get rid of the real economy, save this economy, because people are going to pay more to the Pension Fund and then go out or retire later? That's why I want to say it again. The wrongness of this course, where the economy is held at the expense of poor people and pensioners, where local officials keep their local budgets, and their demands are being met at the expense of the fights from each yard, store, restaurant, or enterprise, will end badly. It will end badly because there is a serious world crisis, and the country is not ready to face this world crisis. So I'm convinced that if the government doesn't change, if the economic policy strategy doesn't change, we're in a very difficult situation. As an opposition, we are ready to be constructive in some of the real proposals. But the history of pension reform shows that so far there is no strategy for reforming the interests of the Ukrainian people. Therefore, this pension reform will be brought before the Constitutional Court, viewing it as unconstitutional and anti-national.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-06-m0.u92	Ladies and gentlemen, it is proposed that you consider the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Military Duty and Military Service. [[on the execution of a military obligation]] Rapporteur – first Deputy Defence Minister Možarovsky Vladimir Mikolajovich, co-rapporteur – head of the National Security and Defence Committee, Gricenko Anatoly Stepanovich. The committee suggests that this issue be examined in a simplified manner. Please vote. [[13:39:51]] For 231 Decision taken. Vladimir Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-06-m0.u93	Dear Volodymira Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, a bill prepared to improve legislation on the conduct of Ukrainian citizens of military service in peacetime and a special period. It is envisaged, first, to introduce a new type of military service -- military service at a special time for citizens who will be called upon to assemble the Armed Forces and other military formations at the time of the mobilization announcement and during subsequent military appeals, this will allow for the regulation of the relations of citizens of this category with the State and their social, legal status during the military service, and also determine the duration of military service during the special period of the categories of military personnel who may be released from military service during this period and the grounds for exemption. Secondly, the bill will allow for the clarification and completion of a list of reasons why members of the military and officers serving in peacetime may be released for the term. Thirdly, clarify the beginning of the term military service. The bill is also intended to clarify the rules for the re-testing of members of the military service, former members of the prosecutor's office, who have class orders to assign military titles to them, depending on the level of the class, when they are admitted to military service; and the order of military accounting in the military commissariats of citizens who are assigned to alternative service. There's no need for an extra cost bill. Please accept the bill as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-06-m0.u94	Thank you, too. I invite the head of the National Security and Defence Committee, Anatoly Stepanovich Griesenka, to report.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-06-m0.u95	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! The committee unanimously voted in favour of the bill and asked the Supreme Council to vote in favour of it in the first reading. I emphasize that in the first reading, because what is proposed is a perfectly normal basis for clarifying the legislative base for the compilation of the Armed Forces in the event of military time, but there are some serious observations that the Ministry of Defense has promised to take into account in the second reading, and we will do so by the power of the committee. I'd like to support you in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-06-m0.u96	Dear colleagues, who insists on discussing the matter? The committee has worked on the document and suggests that it be accepted as a basis. Is there no objection? I'm betting on a motion for acceptance on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Military Duty and Military Service, registration number 8362. [[on the execution of a military obligation]] Please vote. [[13:43:26]] For 277 Decision taken. I'm announcing a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Armed Forces Act, registration number 8551. [[on the use of weapons in peacetime]] The chairman of the committee also suggests that the issue be considered in a simplified manner. I'm voting on this proposal. [[13:44:02]] For 235 Decision taken. Rapporteur – First Deputy Defence Minister Vladimir Mikolaiovich Možarowski, co-rapporteur – Head of the National Security and Defence Committee Gricenko Anatoly Stepanovich. Dear colleagues! We could consider the question of the proposal in such a way that we could continue the morning session, consider the issues set by the schedule for today, and have the opportunity to work on committees for about 15 hours. If there are no warnings, then I will put such an offer to the vote, but after the question has been resolved. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-06-m0.u97	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! The draft law was drafted by the Ministry of Defence with the mandate of the President of Ukraine to expand the use of arms and military equipment by the Armed Forces in peacetime. Current legislation allows for the participation of the Armed Forces in international anti-piracy and anti-terrorist operations. Today, the Navy forces are participating in an anti-piracy operation of the European Union of Atalanta, anti-terrorist operations, the active efforts of the Black Sea Force group, Operation Black Sea Harmony. Participation in these operations requires, under certain conditions, the use of weapons and military equipment by the Ukrainian Armed Forces, primarily for the defence of military personnel and ships on the high seas, the reflection of pirate attacks on ships or aircraft in the event of countering terrorist acts, and so forth. International law also provides for the use of weapons by units involved in international operations in accordance with the decisions of the United Nations Security Council. However, national legislation currently does not allow weapons to be used when performing the tasks listed outside the State, nor does it protect the commanders of the warships, the armed forces, if they so decide. The adoption of this act will allow the State to bring its legislation into line with international law on the issue of terrorism and piracy, create legal grounds for involving the Ukrainian Armed Forces in international anti-terrorist and anti-piracy operations. The implementation of the bill does not require additional financial costs. Given the relevance of the issue, please support the draft law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-06-m0.u98	Thank you, too. Have a seat, please. I invite the head of the National Security and Defence Committee, Anatoly Stepanovich Griesenka, to report.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-06-m0.u99	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! This bill has been prepared more qualitatively, and the committee unanimously, I stress, unanimously, would ask, if there was agreement of the hall, to accept it in the first reading and immediately in general. This is the right bill, because it defines the threats that are actually cross-border and global in nature, the threats that our army will be involved in localization, regardless of the block or non-block status, and it is now participating. It's a law that doesn't have to look for some sort of internal task that complicates the problems of power-opposition. This is the task of protecting the state. And it actually has a positive load. I think the hall will do the right thing if it votes as a basis and then as a whole. I'd like to support the committee's decision, unanimously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-06-m0.u100	Dear colleagues, the committee worked on the bill and believed that it could be accepted as a whole. Any warning? None. Then, given your unanimity, of your will, I'm voting on the proposal of a committee on acceptance as a basis and as a whole the draft law amending the Ukrainian Armed Forces Act on the use of arms in peacetime. [[Registration number 8551]] Please vote. [[13:48:24]] For 275 Decision taken. So the law was passed. Ladies and gentlemen, I am announcing a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Natural Monopolies. [[on activities in adjacent markets]] Yeah, and about the offer. We have here, you know, what defined list, you could make a decision to work without interruptions, you could complete a review of the issues defined by the schedule, and then you could spend the rest of your time working on committees in factions and factions. But we must vote for such a proposal. I'm putting her to a vote. Please be supportive. [[13:49:19]] For 260 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, now you have a proposal for a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on Natural Monopolies. [[on activities in adjacent markets]] [[Registration number 8358]] Deputy Head of the Committee Alexy Plotnikov suggests that we consider the issue of a reduced procedure. I'm betting on the vote on this proposal. [[13:49:55]] For 233 Decision taken. The rapporteur is Deputy Minister for Economic Development and Trade Vladimir Petrovich Pavlenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-06-m0.u101	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! You are considering a draft Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Natural Monopolies, which is prepared for the implementation of the Ukrainian Presidential Decree on the Concept of Improving the National Regulation of Natural Monopolies with the aim of improving the list of activities that are subject to regulation and improvement of regulatory mechanisms in the field of natural monopolies. The bill defines the term of discriminatory access to the network or infrastructure of a natural monopoly subject and adds to the principles of regulating the activities and obligations of natural monopolies in relation to the equality of consumer access to services related to the use of the network or the infrastructure of a natural monopoly subject that will help prevent the abuse of a monopoly. In addition, the bill changes the features of licensing activities in the field of natural monopolies and adjacent markets. Part of the requirement for the specification of the nomenclature and the volume of goods and services, goods and services security, and the technical or technological characteristics of the goods, the operators operating in this area. A positive factor of the bill is also the provision of additional powers to national commissions to regulate natural monopolies to determine the criteria for the compatibility of business operators with the production of goods and services in the market, which is in the state of the natural monopoly and in the relevant adjacent markets. With the adoption of the draft law, there is a level playing field of non-discriminatory access by operators that introduces activities in adjacent markets into networks or infrastructures of natural monopolies that will simplify the activity of operators and reduce monopolies. The final effect of the introduction of the bill should be the improvement of investors.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-06-m0.u102	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-06-m0.u103	Given what has been said, I ask you to adopt the draft Law amending the Law on Natural Monopolies as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-06-m0.u104	Thank you, too. Have a seat, please. Alexi Plotnikov, deputy head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-06-m0.u105	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! On 14 June 2011, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Economic Policy considered a draft of the Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Natural Monopolies, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers. [[meeting protocol No. 66]] [[Registration number 8358 from 7/04/11]] In considering the bill, the National Deputies expressed a wide range of comments on the need for perfect work for the following reasons. First of all, it is not appropriate to establish the specificity of licensing activities in the areas of natural monopolies and adjacent markets. [[this article 7]] The proposed licensing conditions for the introduction of certain activities by natural monopolies and those operating in adjacent markets contain unspecified concepts. There are claims in the National Deputies to article 14, to article 5, and to other articles that show that the text of this bill needs to be worked on. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine has been supporting the adoption of the project on the basis of the first reading, taking into account its comments and proposals. Thus, the Economic Policy Committee recommends to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Natural Monopolies to be sent for further work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-06-m0.u106	Thank you. Are there willing to participate in the discussion? You don't? Then I put forward a proposal for a profile committee on acceptance as a basis in the first reading of the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Natural Monopolies. [[on activities in adjacent markets]] Please vote. [[13:54:55]] For 256 The bill was adopted in the first reading. Let's see. Please, Chechtev, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-06-m0.u107	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! Today, the President has also highlighted the strategic objective of implementing privatization policies. And the next question is privatization. And because there are certain elements of disagreement. Therefore, please postpone consideration to very carefully and I would say that the bill and the statement have been prepared. For the sake of clarity and clarity, why and why. Because everything is not fully agreed upon. Please postpone this bill, consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-06-m0.u108	Alexander Bondar, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-06-m0.u109	Adam Ivanovich, I don't understand the procedure. The government passed the bill, the committee considered it. There's a committee decision. What will we bear? Where will we reconcile? Let the government call off this bill and continue to reconcile. Well, what's the procedure? I don't understand, the committee has already considered, there is a decision. In addition, a positive decision by a committee that should hold a party of authorities.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-06-m0.u110	Clearly, but probably in the Party of Regions, there's still a sense of authority that, in fact, the President's speech was particularly focused on this issue, and he was asked to do so in front of the Cabinet of Ministers. So I'm not ruling out, Alexander Mikolaiovich, I'm not ruling out that after the President's speech, the Cabinet of Ministers will do what you're suggesting, he'll call off this bill and introduce a new one. There was an offer, I put it to a vote. Who's to postpone the review of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on privatization? [[Registration number 8723]] Please vote. [[13:57:06]] For 255 The bill has been postponed. On the question of what it will do, I say it will enable the Cabinet of Ministers to follow the President's instructions. We've already made a transfer decision. The Supreme Council has the right to do so, that is, the Supreme Council of Law. The draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on State Biosafety in Creation, Testing, Transportation and Use of Genetically Modified Organisms is being considered, a bill from the Cabinet of Ministers. [[on the production control mechanism containing GMOs]] [[Registration number 8494]] There is an offer to consider it in a simplified way. Please vote. [[13:58:09]] For 228 Offer supported. Reports Deputy Minister of Economic Development and Trade Vladimir Petrovich Pavlenko. Prepare for the Lutsky Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-06-m0.u111	The President-in-chief, honourable national deputies, is being brought to your attention by the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on State Biosafety in Creation, Testing, Transportation and Use of Genetically Modified Organisms. The need for changes to this law is two main factors: the first is the need to implement a product tracking mechanism that contains or retains genetically modified organisms, the second is to empower the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to identify a scientific institution mandated to perform the functions of the GMO testing centre, as well as to determine the basic powers of such a centre. The substance of the bill’s proposal for a mechanism for tracing products containing GMOs is that the first-time operators to produce such products should make up a written declaration. Copies of declarations are transmitted throughout the supply chain from one host to another. The definition of a scientific institution authorized to perform the functions of a GMO testing scientific and methodological centre will ensure that the results of laboratory tests are reliable for the determination of GMO content. The adoption of the bill will allow operators to save money for research on GMO content while increasing their responsibility for the circulation of the product, the State to improve the state control and control of the product, the population to have reliable information about the product that contains or is being used by GMOs. In view of the deepening integration of Ukraine into world economic space, including through the creation of a free trade zone between Ukraine and the European Union, there is an urgent need for the introduction of rules that exist in European states. Adaptation of legislation to European Union legislation
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-06-m0.u112	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-06-m0.u113	take advantage of the experience of legal regulation in this area, which has already been developed in EU member states. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-06-m0.u114	Thank you. From the committee the first deputy chairman of the Committee on Science and Education, Maxim Lutsky, please, for two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-06-m0.u115	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! The Committee on Science and Education considered the bill "On the State Biosafety System in Creation, Testing, Transportation and Use of Genetically Modified Organisms" and recommended that it be adopted in the first reading. The issue is the creation of infrastructure and tracking systems in Ukraine and the safe use in an open production system that contains GMOs. The bill provides for the introduction of rules for the declaration of new products by entities containing GMOs, as well as for the establishment, authorization and functions of the GMO testing scientific and methodological centre. In addition to creating a collection and a GMO database, the GMO test scientific and methodological centre should carry out scientific and methodological coordination of testing laboratories to determine the content of GMOs in products that were started in 2010 by government decision. The bill meets the requirements of EU Regulation No 1830/2003 of the European Parliament on control and IT-cotification*** genetically modified food and feed, which introduces a mechanism for traceability of products containing GMOs. The bill is supported by the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration and is recommended for adoption in the first reading. In addition to the above questions, the management suggests that the basic requirements for testing laboratories be defined. He also believes that this issue is already addressed by article 9 of the Ukrainian Food Safety and Quality Act, which establishes general requirements for laboratories that assess the safety and quality of food. I therefore propose to support the bill and recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine accept it as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-06-m0.u116	Thank you. Are there those who are willing to share in the discussion? Please sign up. He's stoned. After him is Lukyanova.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-06-m0.u117	A stoned, parliamentary group called Reforms for the Future. Our group notes the extraordinary relevance of this problem and the appropriateness of adopting this legislative initiative. Because Ukraine has long seen the need to establish a clear procedure for tracking or using GMO-containing products. Our citizens should have the right to reliable information about GMOs, and this is a very important step, including our integration into European space, a European family that has long been tracking these things has the necessary mechanisms, the necessary laboratories. The bill takes into account the provisions of the relevant Rules of Procedure of the European Parliament and of the Council since 22.09.2003 and therefore this legislative initiative has the right to support it, our group supports it. The only wish for these laboratories is that this scientific institution be defined as quickly as possible so that our citizens get reliable information about a product that contains GMOs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-06-m0.u118	Catherine Lukyanova, followed by Smith.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-06-m0.u119	Dear colleagues! My speech is more like a question to the government of Ukraine. I'm going to vote in favour of this bill because control is good. But I have a question. So society has no answer today from either the world's scientists or the Ukrainians, which is the final impact of genetically modified organisms on the human body and their reproductive potential in the future. So the question to the government: is it inappropriate to consider the issue of government and in the Supreme Council in general about the refusal to use genetically modified organisms in Ukraine? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-06-m0.u120	Thank you. George Smythech, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-06-m0.u121	Dear Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues, is pleased to see that this question is finally raised in the Supreme Council. Because you remember how many times the question has been raised, that we need to create laboratories to prevent the introduction of all kinds of waste, that feed our population, that cause our population to suffer, then get sick, and then people die. Not many products are defined how they affect human health, but unfortunately, they are distributed in Ukraine. No one today has any record of what products have been imported, how much they are distributed on. From plant to living, living organisms, there's no statistics. And it is a pleasure that the government is taking the first steps. I'm here to support a colleague who's just made a proposal, in general, if there's no definition or uncertainty as to whether it's affecting or not, if this doesn't work, if it doesn't work, it should be banned in Ukraine at all. If you look at the STB channel, which sometimes broadcasts, leads to people who eat food, that's just where the horrors come in. So I would like to propose that this bill should be supported, firstly, and sooner created, these laboratories, and secondly, that I also propose to the government: to propose a ban on importing products that do not contain reliable information as to whether it affects human health or not. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-06-m0.u122	Thank you. factions that didn't have a chance to speak. One minute is school.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-06-m0.u123	Thank you. I think we just have to come up with the notion of world standards in this situation. These are world and European standards. And of course we can come up with our individual Ukrainian. Banning, importing, producing nothing. By the way, about harmfulness and STB, the most harmful product in the world is vodka. Well, come on, ban it, try it, pass the law here, here you are, the ruling party, the majority of you in Parliament, and dare to vote and forbid the use of vodka, namely vodka, not alcohol in Ukraine. So I think it's, well, it's mostly just populism and a certain desire to reach out to social interests because it's saying that there's not much research on the impact of GMOs on reproductive functions. Of course, unexplored, just as the damage is unexplored. But it's been thoroughly investigated that car exhausts are jamming us. Let's work here, let's preserve our nature and ecology by really polluting. Thank you. This law should not be upheld. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-06-m0.u124	Katerina Vaschuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-06-m0.u125	Thank you, dear Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, of course, all we have to do is welcome the government's initiative, it's good. And the first step taken to normalize the product control system is whether or not it contains GMOs. But this is just the first step. And this law can only be adopted in the first reading. Why? Because there aren't clearly defined possibilities for those laboratories, if these labs are created and they're only going to think that they're going to check, how much to check, that's not going to do anything. There has to be a mechanism, a clear mechanism, that all the products that go to the consumer's table have actually been tested, especially those that have been imported from abroad. Because it's a shame about GMOs, too.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-06-m0.u126	Thank you. Question completed. I am voting on the proposal for adoption as a basis in the first reading of the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on State Biosafety in Testing, Transport and Use of Genetically Modified Organisms, Bill No. 8494. [[on the production control mechanism containing GMOs]] Please vote. [[14:09:46]] For 263 A decision has been made. There is a draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the provision of social services, there is a proposal for a reduced procedure, please support. [[Registration number 8319]] [[14:10:17]] For 221 Offer supported. I give the floor to Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Social Policy Sergey Leonidovich Tihypco. Prepare Valery Suškević.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-06-m0.u127	Dear National Deputies! Ladies and gentlemen! The government is asking you to consider a draft Ukrainian Act amending some of Ukraine's social services laws. The purpose of the law is to improve the system of social services for those in difficult circumstances and need the help of the State. Today, with the participation of the State, local executives, local self-government authorities, a large network of institutions and institutions have been established to provide social services, comprising 736 local social services centres, 324 boarding homes for elderly and disabled citizens, 207 rehabilitation facilities for disabled persons, 60 homeless facilities, 1 000,368 social services centres for families, children and young people. Some 3 million Ukrainians receive social services in these institutions. At the same time, the current social services system does not meet international standards. Services are mainly designed for care at fixed facilities, not for service under conditions that are close to the family. Social services are low and low quality due to lack of public standards, social services, and appropriate competition. Imperfect service planning at all levels, imperfect control system, lack of public and independent monitoring mechanisms to assess the effectiveness of social services and their employees, slow market developments in public service providers due to the lack of a clear mechanism, and the purchase of social services in these providers. The bill proposed for your consideration is based on international experience and is the first step towards reforming the social services system and bringing it closer to European Union standards. The bill provides for amendments to three valid laws, namely: the unification of citizens, public social standards, and public social security, and social services. First, changes are aimed at empowering citizens to engage directly in business activities without a goal.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-06-m0.u128	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-06-m0.u129	The other one. We're going to introduce the concept of standards and we're going to clearly define what the standard of social services is. Third. Identifying the needs of citizens who are in difficult circumstances, specific types of social services, and making it possible to plan such services. We passed, discussed the bill on the committee, the committee supports. The Chief Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council has its own observations, but it also generally supports them. The bill does not need any extra money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-06-m0.u130	Suskevich Valeriy Mihajlovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-06-m0.u131	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Valerius Suškević, head of the Supreme Council Committee on Pensioners, Veterans, Disabled Persons, Timoshenko Block. Dear colleagues, the committee discussed at its meeting a draft Act amending the provision of social services submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. [[8319]] What I'm saying is that at the very beginning of the creation of this law, the Social Services Act, the expectations were and remain high, because, as has been said, this law is really the basis for social support and social services as a tool for social protection, for the additional social protection of the people who need it. By the way, some post - Soviet countries have used this law and this direction of social services to improve the social status of their citizens very effectively, particularly the Baltic countries. The committee therefore supported the legislative initiative of the government in this direction. But at the committee meeting, the need for further development of some key points, particularly the Committee against the Elimination of Social Services, Expenses and Social Services, as material assistance, also professional rehabilitation services, issues relating to the issue of terminology, instead of "the elderly" – "the elderly population" – thus removing the possibility of providing social services to other citizens who are not citizens of Ukraine, as well as some other points that touch on the criteria for providing social services for the medium-term total income or family, or the person who needs this assistance. The discussion concluded that there was agreement with the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy on the drafting of the relevant provisions of the bill in the second.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-06-m0.u132	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-06-m0.u133	There is therefore room for further elaboration of this bill. And at his meeting, the committee supported the adoption of the bill in the first reading. The main scientific and expert office believes that this bill can be adopted on the basis of the comments and suggestions made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-06-m0.u134	Is there a need to discuss? Others don't insist but two factions? Then please, Dry and Zarubinsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-06-m0.u135	Dear colleagues! Today, on the holiday day of the celebration of the 20th anniversary of the restoration of Ukrainian statehood, I would like to remind everyone that Ukraine has an ancient and famous tradition of creating and developing a social service system. As early as 996, Prince Vladimir of Kiev established a statute whereby tenfold of the profits were paid to monasteries and churches that were obliged to provide social services to elderly, homeless, or mutilated people. The Cossacks had special units that were especially developed in the days of Bogdan the Hmelnick. Costs earned during military campaigns were set aside to support elderly Cossacks, crippled widows and children or disabled goats. This law, over time since 2003, I want to remind you, that's when the Social Services Act was passed, a long time ago, there was a need that the head of the profiling committee was talking about to improve the very understanding apparatus itself. And improve the system, find out who these services are provided to, and who has the right to provide them. That's why I particularly welcome the amendments to the Law on Public Organizations. Because, dear fellows, no one is better than public organizations than volunteer organizations, they are recognized as professional in the world – they are the ones who should be involved in providing this assistance. They should be given a government social order. If we do so, we will achieve it, thus taking another decisive step in the way of building civil society. And another very important situation. There is another Act on State Social Standards and State Social Guarantees. We've had our differences. So far, we've often shared social services -- social services. Nothing like that. Social services also provide material assistance. We should not lose this very important aspect; it is it that enables us to provide social services with targeted means. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-06-m0.u136	And thank you. Oleg Zarubinski, People's Party, faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-06-m0.u137	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Indeed, I believe that this bill is progressive enough. And you know why? Because what we're proposing here is that we don't have many pieces of legislation, there's a glossary, that's a term that is defined, which is actually a target social group, government minimum standards as social services, and so on. You know, it's not often that people argue with the content of proposals, it's because they treat things differently. In general, he would feel that, on the basis of what is proposed in this bill, that when we either adopt new laws or make changes, where there is no definition of terms, it should appear, it should be treated equally. That's right from the point of view, I think, of legal engineering. The very approach, when it comes to setting minimum standards and quality and listing of services, is certainly progressive and should be maintained. Once again, the bill is correct. The only thing I would like to agree to in part with Valeri Suškević's proposals on what is excluded from article 5 of the Social Services Act is one position, and the situation relates to professional rehabilitation of persons with limited physical capacity, quote: "a complex of medical, psychological, informational, measures aimed at creating favourable conditions for the realization of the right to professional orientation and training, education, employment." I think it's a very important ingredient, a very important ingredient. Including, perhaps, the fact that we underestimate information services for these people, because they are limited by their ability to move, limited in logistics, as they say, and they need information no less than the provision of professional rehabilitation. I think the first reading of this bill is worth supporting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-06-m0.u138	Question completed. I put to the vote the proposal of a profile committee on acceptance as a basis in the first reading of Bill No. 8319 amending some of Ukraine's social services laws. Please vote. [[14:21:16]] For 255 Decision taken. We are considering the draft Law on the Announcement of Natural Areas of the City of Scadovian Hersonian Region by a State-owned resort. [[Registration number 8573]] There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[14:21:47]] For 219 Offer supported. First Deputy Culture Minister Yuri Petrovich Bogicki will report, please. Prepare Suslov. Is it Eugene?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-06-m0.u139	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! The draft Ukrainian Law on the Announcement of Natural Areas of the City of Scadovian Herson Region was drafted by a State-owned resort in accordance with the Ukrainian Law on Resorts and the Ukrainian Presidential Decree on Measures for the Development of Tourism and Resorts in Ukraine. The purpose of this bill is to announce the natural areas of the town of Scadovian Herson as a resort of national importance, which will enable the area to be transformed into a highly cost-effective economic sector, will create favourable conditions for the efficient and rational use of natural, healing, material and human resources in the region. It should be noted that the city of Skadowsk and its adjacent territories has been a developed infrastructure since ancient times. Here is the invention and discovery of useful water of a healing nature, a supply of curative dirt in sufficient quantities, a beautiful aquarium for children's rest, a beach of the sea -- all of this provides, as it were, an opportunity to pay attention to this resort. Today there are 15 health resorts. The legal act is in line with the 2010-2014 Economic Reform Programme "Affordable Society." A competitive economy. Effective government." Under the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers, the bill is agreed with interested authorities and executive authorities and the Herson District Council and the Herson District Administration, as well as worked on committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please accept the law in the first reading, if possible, and in general. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-06-m0.u140	Thank you, Yuri Petrovich. Reported by Patriot Skadowska. Yeah, who's up against Scadovian? Do you know what our sanatorium is? Let's make it public. Is there no objection? No one insists on discussing it? Then I put forward a proposal for a profile committee, and the profile committee proposes to adopt as a basis and generally as a law on the declaration of natural areas of the city of Scadovian Herson County as a resort of national importance. [[Registration number 8573]] Please vote. [[14:24:56]] For 252 The law is passed. Thank you. We are discussing the draft Law on the Announcement of Natural Areas of the City of Mirgorod of Poltavian Region by a resort of State importance. [[Registration number 8574]] There's an offer, with a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[14:25:28]] For 210 Supported. Yuri Petrovich, please report the opinion of Kabmin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-06-m0.u141	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! The bill has also been drafted to implement the Cabinet of Ministers' mandate to approve the 2009 legislative work plan in accordance with the Ukrainian Law on Resorts. This resort, I'm not going to tell you much about its significance for the sanatorium process in Ukraine. I'd just like to point out that he has a historical tradition, a highly professional professional who works in sanatoriums, in this area he has eight sanatoriums, but they have a large infrastructure. Each year, this resort is attended by nearly 45,000 people. Citizens of our state and citizens abroad, it is of unique importance in the Ukrainian health care system. It is also legally in line with the Economic Reform Programme. In accordance with the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the bill is agreed with interested central executive bodies, the Poltavian District Council and the District State Administration, worked on the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and there is also a request and proposal: to adopt the law in the first reading and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-06-m0.u142	Thank you. Yuri Petrovich, explain to all the people that he's giving the "curriage of national importance" app.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-06-m0.u143	The "sort of national importance" plugin is one of those. The area, it's complete, and it doesn't allow, as we say, alienate the respective territories, to define the boundaries of these areas. And the sad experiences that have occurred in other resort areas of Ukraine, which are not protected by law, allow for the development, involvement of investors, conservation of territory, and thus development. I would like to point out that today, the decisions of the Soviet Union and the Ukrainian Council of Ministers have identified 15 resorts of Republican importance. Today, however, they have only four status under the laws of the Supreme Council: Berdjansk, Saki, Humilov, and Slavyansk. Today, if you make a decision, two more sanatoriums will join you. It protects the interests of Ukrainian citizens' health care facilities.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-06-m0.u144	And they have the right to be privatized?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-06-m0.u145	They? No, it's not. I don't think so.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-06-m0.u146	Well, I have doubts. So we're giving you the opportunity to have the investor you're talking about come along, and because of our decision, you've taken a much larger territory than you can. I understand that a public-value resort is necessary for the state support of this resort to be. And we're just setting boundaries. Well, that's a very clear question. Thank you, Yuri Petrovich, please sit down. There is also a proposal for a profile committee, considering that "not now Mirrod, Horol River is not", to adopt the whole Act "On the Announcement of Natural Areas of the City of Mirgorod of Poltavian Region as a resort of national importance". [[Registration number 8574]] I'm making a motion for adoption as a whole as a bill of voting. Please vote. [[14:29:30]] For 260 A decision has been made. We are considering a draft law amending the Ukrainian Road Traffic Act. [[Registration number 8359]] There's a proposal for a reduced procedure. Please be supportive. [[14:29:57]] For 219 Offer supported. Report to Deputy Interior Minister Dmitry Mikhailovich Voron, two minutes, please. Prepare Mironka from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-06-m0.u147	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! The bill proposes to remove from article 30 of the Road Traffic Act a rule on the need to obtain a certificate of acceptance of the design of a mechanical means of transport for road safety while carrying out business activities with the production of mechanical means of transport. In view of the fact that the legislation provides for mandatory certification of vehicles prior to their serial production, the cancellation of the above testimonies will avoid duplication of State control tools according to the construction of transport vehicles with road safety requirements during their production. At the same time, no certification is applied in the case of five or more means of transportation, so the certificate will play an important role in controlling the safety of changes in the design of transport vehicles when they are reequipped by operators. The adoption of the bill will reduce the administrative influence of the State on the operators involved in the implementation of the commercial activities of transport. The implementation of the bill will not require additional costs from the state budget, please support everyone, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-06-m0.u148	Thank you, Dmitri Mikhailovich. Have a seat, please. Mikhailo Ivanovich Mironenko, head of the Committee on Transport and Communications
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-06-m0.u149	Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Transport and Communications reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Road Traffic Act, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. [[Registration number 8359]] The purpose of the bill is to reduce the administrative influence of the State on the economic operators involved in the production of transport equipment. It is envisaged to amend articles 30, 32 of the Ukrainian Road Traffic Act to remove the need to obtain a certificate of acceptance of the construction of a road safety vehicle. The Chief Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council notes that the first reading of the bill can be adopted taking into account the comments and suggestions made. The Ministry of Infrastructure of Ukraine believes that such changes can only be accepted by taking into account the comments made regarding the fact that admission to the operation of reequipped buses should only be made through special testing and certification to meet the requirements of the regulations, regulations and standards in force in Ukraine. Taking into account the above and the outcome of the discussion at the meeting, the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Ukrainian law to be adopted as a basis. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-06-m0.u150	Thank you. Why not in general?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-06-m0.u151	I'll answer that. Because in two sessions the bill was considered. There are still some disagreements that need to be prepared.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-06-m0.u152	In short, the Ministry of Internal Affairs is in favour, but the Ministry of Infrastructural Against. I see. Are there those who are willing to share in the discussion? Please sign up. Yes, please, Sulkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-06-m0.u153	Pachesuku's word.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-06-m0.u154	Pack of microphones, please. Behind him is the Chaplain.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-06-m0.u155	Dear colleagues, the bill is to be supported. In particular, he foresees receiving a certificate of acceptance of the vehicle’s constructions in case of remodelling. Since it is not subject to compulsory certification, this rule will first of all allow State control over the structure of the equipment and reduce the negative effects on the responsibility for the accidents that we now have a great place in Ukraine. I propose to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-06-m0.u156	Thank you. Chaplain.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-06-m0.u157	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! You know at the session of the MP's Reform for the Future we discussed this bill and came to the following conclusions. Of course, canceling this, you know, administrative pressure to get an additional certificate of agreement on the construction of a mechanical means of transport, as previously applied in existing legislation, and, in particular, adopted in Soviet times, it seems normal to influence the quality of means of transport that are on the road. But today there may be two levels of remodeling. The first is a certified enterprise that has mass production of technology, but there are also cooperative large-scale enterprises or private entities that are redesigning their means of transport chaoticly, and this is not subject to the supervision of the active public certification bodies. Please tell me what to do in this case. And why are we discussing only five means of transportation as a limit, after which such certification is not necessary. So I think the law needs to be redrafted in a second reading. We'll support it as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-06-m0.u158	Question closed. I'm proposing a profile committee to adopt a draft law amending the Ukrainian Road Traffic Act, Bill No. 8359. Please vote. [[14:37:01]] For 257 Decision taken. Thank you. The issue is being addressed, the draft Act amending article 18 of the Ukrainian Law on general secondary education. [[on preventing discrimination when entering primary school]] [[Registration number 6515]] There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. Please be supportive. [[14:37:35]] For 211 Offer supported. The author of the bill is Feldman Alexander. I can't see. Then, please, from the profile committee, Vladimir Ivanovich Lichuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-06-m0.u159	Honourable Adam Ivanovich, Honorary Fellows, Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Science and Education at its meeting, reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law amending article 18 of the Ukrainian Law on General Secondary Education, introduced by the National Deputy of Ukraine Feldman. [[on preventing discrimination when entering primary school]] [[Registration number 6515]] By supplementing part of article 18 of the Ukrainian Law on General Secondary Education, the bill proposes to prohibit the testing of children's knowledge when they are included in the first class of general education institutions, except for specialized schools, boarding schools, schools, colleges, colleges. On the basis of the need for adoption of the bill, the author strongly argues that today, when children are admitted to the first class of public and municipal education institutions, children are often tested, there are different tests of their willingness to go to school, such as reading, mathematics, and so forth. Some educational institutions have refused to include a child in a school because of the results of such tests. Although it is known that the above is contrary to the Constitution of Ukraine, the Regulations on Public Education Institutions, the Order of the Ministry of Education and Science, youth and sports on the approval of the instruction "On the Order of Competitive Admission of Children, Students, Educators to High Schools, Licens, Colleges, Specialized Schools, Schools. By the way, as a national deputy, I was repeatedly approached by the parents of high school students on this issue. That is, in real life, the rules and regulations regarding the inclusion of children in the first grade are being violated. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in its conclusion of 13.03. In 2011 it points out whether the issues raised in the bill are sufficiently regulated by the current legislation of Ukraine. But in real life, the proper rules of law are not being implemented. Thus, it is appropriate to establish a standard of law. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Science and Education adopted a decision: to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the results of a first reading draft of the Ukrainian Act amending article 18 of the Ukrainian Law on General Secondary Education. [[on preventing discrimination when entering primary school]]
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-06-m0.u160	Finish up. Thank you. Dear colleagues, the question is clear. The point is, you can't take the law, you can't take it, but you won't spoil it. And now, according to current legislation, no one has the right to set up any exams to count a first grader. But there is a but. So, I think, let's support the proposal of a profile committee to complete the 18th article of the General Secondary Education Act with the rule that it's forbidden to test the level of knowledge when children are enrolled in a general educational institution. Besides, of course, high school, seniors and so on, where some knowledge is needed and some competition is needed. No objection? Then I put to the vote the proposal of a profile committee on acceptance as a basis and in the whole of the draft Act amending article 18 of the Ukrainian Law on General Secondary Education, please vote. [[Registration number 6515]] [[14:41:26]] For 264 Thank you, the law has been passed. Thus, dear colleagues, we have exhausted the agenda offered on the first day of the ninth session. I'd like to use the rest of my time to work on the profile committees so that we can put those bills into the agenda this week so that they can go through the profile committees. This morning’s meeting of the Supreme Council is closed. There will be no implementation of the evening meeting plan. Work starts tomorrow at 10 a.m.
