ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-07-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, guests and invited Supreme Council! Dear National Deputies, yesterday in connection with the blockade of the Presidium Bed and the Presidium Tribune of the Supreme Council of Ukraine by the National Deputies of the factions of the "Clocus of Yulia Timoshenko – "The Father of the Supreme Council" faction, there was no possibility of closing the morning plenary session. Therefore, the 35th plenary session of the ninth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the sixth call is closed. People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system, let's register. [[10:00:39]] There are 370 national deputies registered in the session hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council will be open. Let's start with a nice job and welcome our colleague Alla Alexandrowski to your birthday. [[Applause]] And all Catherine with names. And now it's less pleasant. The Supreme Council and accountants asked me to remind you of the Order of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of September 7, 2009, on the grounds that those national deputies who are breaking down meetings and refusing to work are not paid the same day. And let's go back to the nicest part. Today, dear colleagues, you know, we're having a professional holiday -- local self-government day, it's our closest assistants, counselors, it's those with us who are responsible for the fate of the electorate. Let's welcome everyone who works in local self-government with this professional holiday. [[Applause]] In accordance with article 25 of the Rules, we have 30 minutes on Wednesday for statements by national deputies with proposals, announcements, messages. People's deputies please sign up for the speech. Yes, please, Volodymyr Mikolajovich Stretovic. Prepare Goroskevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-07-m0.u2	Dear Lord Chairman, dear colleagues! My statement will be made at the request of Ukrainian citizens who suffered on November 14th of this year in Kiev at the intersection of Bajkova and Grinchenka Street as a result of a road accident. So it happened that when a family and friends returned home and passed the green light of the traffic light, it was hit at a speed by Volkswagen Passat, the state registration number 0078, which belongs to the Ministry of Internal Affairs. In a strange coincidence, this number right here, I can show it to you, it was found at the scene. What's more, the survey log shows the number of this car, but it's strange not to have a last name, but who was behind the wheel. A witness, a cab driver passing by, shows in his evidence that he saw, at the speed of the car, breaking the rules, hitting a citizen's car, causing damage, but as soon as the State inspection came, they quickly took this "high" official, because I understand that 0078. But it's not over yet. When the scheme was drawn up, when the witnesses were signed up, it was strange that on the second day the district office of the Voice suggested something else to the accident participants, making our citizens feel guilty. [[Whoever was in the accident knows this whole procedure.]] Dear voters! Ladies and gentlemen! Thus we undermine the faith of citizens in general in the effectiveness of our power. So we're going to discredit the fact that Ukraine will ever become a state of law. In this regard, allow me to turn from this high hall to the Attorney General of Pshonka, the Minister of Internal Affairs assigned to the following question: "Who was on this day at 21:00 on recorded events driving the car of Volkswagen-Passat 0078? Who falsified the protocols and schematics of the scene?" Otherwise, if we don't start to clear ourselves of any fact where active representatives are far away, where our citizens are affected, we'll never reach the European standard that we're talking about so often now, especially the days before December 19th. And this will be another lesson in preventing such facts from happening. I'll tell you more. These facts are not alone. In my MP's mail, there's a huge number of references when it's the authorities who are involved in the various incidents. Honorable ones who are called upon to serve the people! I call upon you, please, 20 years have passed, enough, the people require us to act - to act for the benefit of those who have delegated power to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-07-m0.u3	Groškević and Vasiliev pass on the word to Kaletnik. Please, six minutes. Next Upper. Upstairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-07-m0.u4	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Ladies and gentlemen, listen to me. Dear colleagues! Thank you very much to the faction colleagues who have given the opportunity to perform on such a holiday, and I would like to welcome the officials of the local authorities of rural, rural, urban, councillors of all levels, representatives of the municipal community with the celebration of local self - government bodies. It is thanks to the self - sacrificing and hard work of local self - government workers that we are able to carry out an extremely wide range of issues and tasks that our country is facing, as President Viktor Fedorovich Janukovic of Ukraine. Obstacles and challenges can be overcome in the economic, social, and cultural spheres of life. Taking this opportunity, I also want to inform the Ukrainian people about the situation in the agri-industrial complex. In all categories of farms, grain harvesting has been completed, and today, more than 57 million tons have been added to the gross congregation. An average yield of 38 centurions per hectare. Such a gross bread congregation of Ukraine did not know about its agrarian history. It is achieved by providing our hardworking workers with a village under favorable climate conditions and blessings from God. But if peasants have the right to rest, to join forces for a future harvest battle, there is a very dangerous tendency to bathe in the rays of these achievements for officials of individual departments, institutions, and ministries. What can that mean? This means that much of the wheat area can be transplanted as a result of the drought of autumn. And such an unprecedented crop of grains in Ukraine in the following year may result in a shortage of food wheat. Even today, if 200 dollars per tonne of wheat is paid by grain traders in Ukraine, it is sold to European world markets for 320. Thus, in the event of the death of some of the Swamps, it is not difficult to predict that by buying wheat at such a price abroad, grain traders will bring and sell it in Ukraine for at least $400, which means a corresponding double increase in the price of baked bread. So we need to create an adequate reserve and buy enough grain for breadmakers who today, through the State, could receive loans and interest compensation. From the foregoing, it can be concluded that the following year will be difficult and unforgivable for agricultural farmers, farmers, private farmers, and the agricultural sector as a whole. A positive contribution to the stabilization of agricultural production was made by the Committee of the Supreme Council on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations, which decided yesterday at its meeting to postpone the deadline for the introduction of the land market not earlier than 2013. At the same time, Ukraine’s national deputies unlocked the situation with the land of the non - agricultural assignment. The negative assessment was also expressed by the activities of latifundiums. The villages that are in the agrohholding zone of 100,000 acres [100 ha] of land have no support in the social sphere or in the repair of roads or in the help of individual people -- the inhabitants of these villages. There are a number of examples of disregard for the legitimate rights of landowners who are not subject to contractual terms by renters and who are also hampered by influence on the courts and other law enforcement authorities, not allowing peasants to defend their legal rights as expressed in the lease agreements of their land. During the drafting of the law in the committee together with the working group, border restrictions on land areas and leases in one area were reduced in accordance with the mandate of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Taxes remain only in large cities, as latifunds are mainly registered in the capital. It has also been decided that each agricultural structure, whatever it may be, should be registered in the area of land tenure. There is also a one - percent congregation of the renters of the sacred Ukrainian land, which is to be counted against the regional public administrations and district councils for their proportional distribution to each village according to the size of the population. We estimate that this will go to about four billion dollars a year for socio-economic development of villages, which is tens of times more than what has been allocated in recent years to aid the socio-economic development of the village. Dear colleagues, we are faced with high tasks that we can only do with our common understanding of our activities, without neglecting the interests of the people and the interests of our Ukraine. So I want to assure everyone that, despite all the problems and challenges facing the Ukrainian people, the Supreme Council of Ukraine will do its utmost to improve the agricultural economy of Ukraine, and the faction of the Party of Regions plays a leading role in this. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-07-m0.u5	Thank you. The ceiling passes Tomenka to Mikola Volodymyrovich. Please, after him is Dry.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-07-m0.u6	Dear colleagues, yesterday shows that power and parliamentary majority either do not want to or cannot respond to the real situation in the country. I think that if life goes on like this, we have a sad analogy with the leaders of the state saying that Parliament is not a place for discussion. I think that if Parliament is not a place for discussion for power, then we are destined to have a discussion with the authorities and the people on the street. If you do not want to listen to opposition and do not want to compromise on the protection of human life and health. Protecting the lives and health of not only leaders of political opposition but protecting the lives and health of the Chernobylites, protecting the lives and health of Afghans, protecting the lives and health of those today protesting throughout Ukraine. Then you'll be negotiating on the street with these people, there's no other way out. We should not be afraid that we have donated our wages. We are willing to sacrifice our health. They are not willing to sacrifice only principles. Because the principles we have are to protect our political leaders, to protect those who fight for their rights, and to protect Ukraine. I realize that the authorities today fear the Ukrainian people and fear society. Because the Department of Public Protection said yesterday that the number of threats, acts of terrorism, was increasing on Donetskina, so the President should not date anyone at all. Friends, if you go that way, and you criticize us for breaking something up in Ukraine, you're not just a normal life, you're a Euro. Today, no team wants to move to Ukraine. If every day Europe and the world hear that in Ukraine, in Donetsk or some other terrorist act, and we have terrorists living, then we need to isolate the country and shut down, and turn from democratic to totalitarian Ukraine. Once again, we demand that we return the discussion to the session room, return to our demands and consider the demands and opposition, and the demands of the European Parliament, vote on the article on decriminalization of the judiciary. To return to the issue of granting independent medical attention to those in prison today, consider the possibility of opposition defending their rights. Today, there is no opposition day, no question asked by the opposition! Once again, my friends, on behalf of the Fatherland faction, I think on behalf of the opposition in Parliament in general, I'm warning you, if you don't want to compromise and compromise, if you think you have enough votes not to communicate with the opposition, we're going to carry this communication out on the street. Let us take a closer look at the street, who is more right and who is more persuasive. Once again, there are unpleasant things happening on the street, so either we return the debate to Parliament, or we meet on the street.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-07-m0.u7	Jaroslav Suhi, faction of the Party of the Regions. Get ready. Viennese passes it on to Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-07-m0.u8	Dear colleagues! In recent times, we have seen some political forces trying to use the protest moods of the socially vulnerable population to satisfy their narrow political interests. Let me remind the Ukrainian people's deputies, who have been here since the third call, of the practice of implementing social laws since 2000. Ukraine's State Budget 2000 Act began when the laws on Ukraine's State Budget for the year 2000 to 2011 suspended the provisions of legislative acts in part of the granting of benefits and compensations, which are financed from all levels of budgets. Yes, the State budget of Ukraine for 2000 has been suspended by article 62 of the legislative acts in part of the granting of benefits and compensation, including for citizens who have been classified as victims of the Chernobyl disaster, and for families who have a disabled child who have a disability associated with the Chernobyl accident. 2001 It is granted the right of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to set compensation and social benefits in line with the budget. Ukraine's State Budget 2005 Act. In 2005, it was established that citizens who were affected by the Chernobyl accident were provided in order and size as determined by the Cabinet of Ministers. Dear colleagues, I do not happen to quote you from the article "The Voice of Ukraine" of September 25, 2011. Anyone who can read could read these things. But I want to say something else, look, since 2008, the Order, I don't call it the Prime Minister's name, found that payments of social compensation and benefits are provided within the budget remit and in the order established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The Cabinet of Ministers' decree of today's word has been repeated by the Cabinet of Ministers since 2008 and it can't be otherwise. [[No. 745]] So I'm calling today from this rostrum, colleagues, remember when the last time we talked about productivity, efficiency of production, modernization of the economy. Only by pooling together all branches of government around the support of a domestic producer, around the modernization of the economy, will we give people a chance to improve their social status and to increase the material well - being of our people. Not at the expense of the manufacturer, skinning the last skin, as was the case in 2005, when all the preferences were eliminated, and because of the growth of the economy, we simply have no other way. So I urge everyone to understand, and this is going to be our conversation with the opposition, not in the street with screams and rapes.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-07-m0.u9	Viachelav Kirilenko, please. Get ready for Spike.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-07-m0.u10	Viacheslav Kirilenko, Party "For Ukraine!".. Dear colleagues! Dear voters! We're very concerned about the events that are now taking place in Moscow and St. Petersburg at night in the central squares. Tens of thousands of Russians protested against dictatorship, and thousands of Russians were detained and arrested. And since President Janukovic has rushed to greet Medvedev with a successful and fair election, we conclude that exactly that scenario is planned for 2012 in Ukraine. Look, we have our own movement as in Russia, only it's here under Kalashnikov's leadership, ready at any time in spite of the court's decision to occupy any area without penalty and act essentially on behalf of power against people and against democracy. All the receptions used there are also used successfully in Ukraine now. The dream of the present power that, as in Russia, there would be no opposition in Parliament at all. Because all four parties that went to the Russian State are not opposition. But perhaps the dictators are applauding. But they should not forget, including the Ukrainian authorities, that none of the parties to the Russian State see Ukraine as a fully independent state, which means Yanukovich is a full and equal president in negotiations with them. All parties advocate the restoration of the Soviet Union in one form or another, either called the Customs Union or called the HeurAzes or under another name. So if the Ukrainian authorities think that the time has come for the construction of three dictatorships in Russia, Belarus and Ukraine, which will interact fraternally with each other, they are wrong -- there will be no three dictatorships, and there will be one large Russian dictatorship, all Russian enterprises and all Russian politics. Because the Russian-Moscow scenario doesn't work. Ukraine's path, if it sees itself as an independent, prosperous state, only with the European Union and only with NATO. In view of the events that are taking place in Russia, all authorities must realize that on December 19 they must make a clear choice in favour of the EU agreement, which must immediately restore normal, effective negotiations with the NATO bloc. What we need to understand is that this dictatorship, which is set in the North, the next target will have an independent Ukraine by the way, irrespective of the President's name. That's why we know that our government is so-called Ukrainian, it's dealing with political repression itself, and it's not going to react to events in Russia. But the profile committees and the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-07-m0.u11	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-07-m0.u12	The Supreme Council, all democratic societies must respond to these events and issue an appropriate political statement. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-07-m0.u13	Basil Shpak, faction of the People's Party. After him Kostenko sends John the Hare.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-07-m0.u14	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! First of all, I want to welcome everyone who works in self-government from the People's Party faction with their professional holiday. Ladies and gentlemen, we have not yet arrived with you to enter the land market, as the shadowy land business has been fully operational. Last week, I visited the village of Holoništevo, in the district of Hmelnitsk, where I met people, and that was impressive. First of all, the village’s neglect, roads destroyed, buses from the center did not walk, much of the fields did not go through the stars, and some areas grew up with weeds and even young grasslands. The village is not gassed, and the population bubble gas comes from Winnitz and is sold at speculative prices. The enclosed social sphere, the medical center doesn't work, and the two-story club has windows that are broken down by walls, and the role of this facility is refurnished by the old farm. The villagers survive as much as they can. The east of the village is not being held; no one is caring for the woes of the peasants. But the biggest problem, the earth. The best pies in the land were leased, and they were more loyal to the company Leticians-Agro by signing clean lease forms with landowners. As a rental wage, this year they have given people three cents of worthless grain and no change! Today, the village head was distanced from the villagers. In his participation in State acts, land rations were halved, compared with land certificates. The land thus created, the villagers claim, is expected to be sold as a spare. A similar situation in the villages of Majdan Golenishtovsky, Sachny, and Bucny of the same area. Two heads of the regime, including the head of the Letician District State Administration, are already under investigation for bribery in the use of Hmelnickin. Today a new rival company named Lorenzo Agro, registered in Kiev, has also appeared in the villages, and is also seeking to take over the land of the people with the right to ransom. It is not hard to imagine that with the appearance of the Law on the Sale of the Earth, peasants will be free of their rations. In the example of these Gods and peoples of forgotten villages, I want to draw the government’s attention also to the price of milk that is concentrated in peasants. Recyclers in monopolistic conspiracies.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-07-m0.u15	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-07-m0.u16	This is how peasants are affected. In view of this, I would like to make such suggestions. The rent size is not less than five percent of the price of the pie. Renting a contract with the village council is to be directed each year.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-07-m0.u17	Thank you, thank you. John the Rabbit. Prepare Pauline.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-07-m0.u18	Ivan Hare, Ukrainian People's Party. Ladies and gentlemen, here one of the speakers spoke of our agriculture reaching unprecedented heights because we are already feeding grain to the world today. Let him, this reporter say, and how much milk we have produced, how much meat, how many vegetables, how many fruits, and you will see that today’s agriculture is in great decline. Another national MP spoke, crying that the land was being privatized, the land market. Don't vote tomorrow! That's why I'd like, national MPs, to draw your attention to tomorrow when a bill on agricultural land market is being passed in this room. Has anyone seen this bill? I don't think we've seen him because he doesn't exist in nature for the moment. But tomorrow, Mr. Michael's hand will force you to vote for this bill. It's not just a bill that solves the economic issue. This bill is about solving social issues in the countryside. This bill is finally related to the issue of the nationality of the Ukrainians, of our national identity. And we're getting a bill in the hall tomorrow that we haven't seen. We are not offered the European type of land market where a peasant works on earth, where he has the support of his country, from his authority. And we want to privatize the land in the interests of the great Latinists, the great capital, what we see today in Latin America. So where do we go: to the European Union, or to Latin America, where there's a small pile of rich people and a mass of depopulated peasants, where we see very large social contrasts? Our authorities are doing everything today to take the land to the Ukrainian peasants to depopulate the Ukrainians in order to finally deprive the Ukrainian nation of its prospects. Nobody's telling us anything. How will we deal with this problem with lands that do not have a host today? And that's up to 10 million hectares that don't have a host for today. They are neither state nor citizen. Why is the State silent on this issue? Because these lands are the very objects of the agrarian mafia and tomorrow they want to adopt a bill in the first reading that will remove the last obstacle to the suspension of the moratorium on the sale of agricultural land. Therefore, the Ukrainian People’s Party refers to the Ukrainian national MPs not to allow the introduction of such a model of the land market that will essentially destroy the Ukrainian nation. We do not want this privatisation to take place in the interests of the great capital, not the Ukrainian peasants. So the national MPs, not the evil ones, don't cry, tomorrow you'll be able to show whether you're patriots of Ukraine or you're working on it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-07-m0.u19	Pavlenko's handing over Oreste to Mutz, please. Get ready for him.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-07-m0.u20	Orestes Mutz, Ternopilska. On December 1, the state celebrated the 20th anniversary of the All-U.S. referendum in support of the Ukrainian declaration of independence. This day was marked by the adoption of a resolution of the European Parliament concerning Ukraine. And from this point of view, the head of state, Viktor Janukovic, said, "This is certainly good news for Ukraine." This is a reflection of the prospect of Ukraine's accession to the European Union. An important step to this is that additional visa centres in various regions of Ukraine will be opened before the Euro-2012. In addition, residents of the border western areas of Ukraine can submit documents for weekly visas to Poland. The second visa will be granted for at least six months, and an annual repeated Schengen visa may also be issued. Millions of Westerners, Galicians, who have been perceived for the past two decades as illegal workers, and for whom Schengen has often been difficult to reach, have today been able to feel like Europeans. The independent Ukraine has begun its course in Europe. This has been made possible by the current government and, above all, by the consistent actions of President Viktor Yanukovic of Ukraine towards reforms, strengthening democratic values, combating corruption, bringing the country out of the crisis, restoring it, while the intention of the predecessors has almost failed at the pace of the Euro-2012 preparations. The provocations of ultra - right pseudo-patriots on May 9th of this year in Lviv were also directed to corrupt the country’s pro-European image. Anti-Europeans are also today’s acts of opposition. Yesterday’s blockade of the rostrum damaged social issues. The environment of the corrupt ex-premier and other non-patriotic air force is trying to use in their pyar actions. The Chernobyl disaster, due to Ukraine and the world, and with which the government has increased pensions 2-3 times since next year. Thanks to the faction of the Party of the Regions, the rejection of a number of MPs has already been budgeted for the following year. The government is oriented towards a better European future for our people, and it is through the implementation of the country's Head of State programme "Ukraine for the People" that today is about the European Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-07-m0.u21	Yes, Isaiah conveys Sergey Tereshku. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-07-m0.u22	Sergey Tereshuk, faction of the People's Party. Dear colleagues, it has historically been said that the peak of political tension falls to the end of the year. And what mood we will have at our New Year’s celebrations and when Ukraine meets its new year depends to a large extent on us. And what's more, today in the Supreme Council, one of the most important bills, no less important than the Constitution of Ukraine, is the Land Market Act. There's a lot of speculation around this law today. Today, there is no single point of view in society, whether or not there is a market for the earth. On the one hand, there is a Constitution that guarantees ownership, and today the land is privately owned by 7 million Ukrainian citizens. A large proportion of people today are against the earth’s market. They are usually people who have no land or people who are in pain in the future of a village who want to see the future. The elderly, who had nothing in the village other than sickness and infirmity, want to use their right to sell their food. So I would very much like to stop speculation, and in this room I would like to do a constructive job and make a bill that most Ukrainian citizens want to do. In principle, the People's Party stands in those positions that the law must preserve, first and foremost, the perspective of the Ukrainian village. What will be the law, whether it will support rural settlements, depends on Ukraine’s future. Next step. We need to make sure that young people have a perspective. So that the young people who stay in the villages who work can eventually become good farmers, become good managers of the farms, create jobs, and keep young people in the countryside in order to have a perspective. We clearly agree that we should put in place mechanisms that will not allow us to speculate with the land; that what has happened to our property certificates will not happen to our privatization certificates. That's why I'm proposing. There's a debate in Parliament. We have a discussion on the committee. I invite you to reject the political ambitions and sit at the negotiating table and find all the mechanisms that we have to put into law so that the people of Ukraine do not lose the enforcement of this law, so that we don't have huge latifons in the country, so that the country doesn't become an object of speculation, so that the earth will serve as the basis for the development of our population sites, so that the earth will allow us to have a strong and independent Ukraine. So, dear fellows, let's do it as long as we can, let's do it. Let's look for a way out together. The land must belong to the Ukrainians. The earth must secure the future of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-07-m0.u23	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Statements, announcements, referrals, proposals completed. We'll be working with you today on Tuesday's schedule until yesterday we've completed the agenda. And now two factions -- the BUT faction and the NUNS faction -- are asking to announce a 30-minute recess for consultations. A break of 11 hours is announced for 05 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-07-m0.u24	Dear colleagues, if you'd like to come into the session room, we'll continue our morning session. Let me make an announcement. In accordance with article 60 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and according to the minutes of the meeting of the deputy faction "Clocus of Yulia Timoshenko – "Batakovščina" of 7 December 2011, I inform that the head of the deputy faction "BUT – "Batačina" has been elected the national deputy of Ukraine, Andrija Anatoliyovich Kožemjakina. So we have a faction leader, a general with whom we welcome. Two factions took a break and asked to make a statement. For the statement, the head of the faction "BUT – "Fathership" by Andriy Anatoliyovich Kožemjakin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-07-m0.u25	Dear colleagues, the distinguished statements made by the factions of "BUT" – "Fatherland" and "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". The faction of the "BUT" block, the "Fatherland" and the "National*** Ukraine – National Self-Defense" faction state: most in Parliament ignore all demands of opposition factions, in principle do not cooperate and continue to legitimize political repression in Ukraine. Regardless of the fact that the entire European community and President Yanukovic spoke about the need for a transparent and impartial hearing of the appeal, the first trial already demonstrated that there is no justice in the Kiev Court of Appeal, as there is no justice in the entire justice system in Ukraine. Julia Timoshenko was condemned for the law that was selectively applied to her. The article that judges her comes in. It comes from Soviet times and foresees criminal persecution for political decisions. Even so, on December 19th, the "Ukraine-EU" summit in Kiev is scheduled to sign the EU Association Agreement, which opens up real historical and economic prospects for Ukraine. On December 1, however, the European Parliament adopted a resolution clearly stating that political prisoners must be released in Ukraine for the Association Agreement to be signed. We've got everything going on. There's a reverse process going on. The government was about to condemn Julia Timoshenko for the Stalinic article, and today the authorities have not only gone openly to the destruction of the leaders of the opposition forces of Yulia Timoshenko, Yuri Lucenko, and others, but in fact, the authorities have denied the protection of the country by the people of Ukraine. All demands of the opposition forces are rejected. And today in Parliament is the day of opposition. Most agreed that this day should consider the laws of the opposition factions, which are primarily aimed at resolving the situation in our country, protecting its citizens. Yet, most deny the opposition to work in Parliament. Today, antisocial and anti-national laws are back in order to enrich the narrow circle of elected ones and most are ready to accept them at any cost. In view of this faction, the Yulia Block Timoshenko – “The Fatherland” and “Our Ukraine – the People’s Self-Defense” in the Supreme Council claim that we will not participate in this farce and leave the session hall for today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-07-m0.u26	Yes, dear colleagues, we will move on to the realization of the order of the day. We need to include in the agenda of the day - to - day session a series of bills that, in view of the year’s completion, including the financial year, we need to adopt a series of important bills, including those related to changes in the State Budget, to reach the local level of solid subsidies to solve social problems. I am voting on the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Administrative Services Act. [[Bill 9435 registration number]] The bill's author is the president, and he's asking him to consider it urgent. Please vote. [[11:11:08]] For 238. Included in the agenda. We are discussing the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Anti-Monopoly Committee. [[about optimisation of the composition]] Registration number 9316. The author of the bill is the President. Please be supportive. [[11:11:41]] For 267 Included in the agenda. We are discussing the inclusion in the agenda of the daily draft Act of Amendments to certain Ukrainian laws on the structure and procedure of the personnel of the Ukrainian Security Service. [[Registration number 9494]] The bill is written by the President of Ukraine. Please be supportive. [[11:12:15]] For 267 Included in the agenda. We are discussing the inclusion in the agenda of the draft laws amending the Ukrainian Budget Code for the creation of the Regional Development Fund. [[Bill registration number 9363 and 9363-1]] The first bill is written by the Cabinet of Ministers, the subject of the legislative initiative. The second bill, the author is the national deputy of Ganustak. Please vote. [[11:13:07]] For 264 Thank you, the question is included in the agenda. The inclusion in the agenda of the draft Law on Amendments to Article 105 of the Ukrainian Budget Code on Principles and Criteria for the Distribution of Subsidies for Investment Programmes is under consideration. [[projects]] Registration number 9367. The author of the bill is the government. Please be supportive. [[11:13:49]] For 260 Included in the agenda. The issue of the inclusion in the agenda of the Government Bill No. 9531, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2011 is being considered. [[on increasing social expenditure]] Please be supportive. [[11:14:24]] For 267 It's on. The issue of the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Objects of High Hazard is being considered. [[on simplifying the authorization system]] Bill number 9214. The subject of the legislative initiative is the Cabinet of Ministers. Please vote. [[11:15:00]] For 217 The factions, please. The Party of Regions – 183, "BUT – "The Fatherland" – did not vote, "Our Ukraine – The People's Self-Defense" – 2, the Communists, "The Reforms" – did not vote, the People's Party – 20, non-fractional – 12. The issue of the inclusion in the agenda of the Bill No. 9354, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Accounting and Financial Reporting in Ukraine, is being considered. [[for Original Documents]] The subject of the legislative initiative is the Cabinet of Ministers. Please vote. [[11:15:56]] For 266 Copy that. Included in the agenda. The issue of the inclusion in the agenda of Bill 9361, the draft Law on Prices and Prices, is being considered. The subject of the legislative initiative is the Cabinet of Ministers. Please vote. [[11:16:32]] For 267 Included in the agenda of the day session. I'm paying attention to the profile committee. Your Honor, when you work on this bill, it's a pity that the Cabinet of Ministers didn't notice it, it's a pity. But the point is that we already have the Prices and Prices Act of December 3, 1990, which means we can only make changes to the law in force by making it new. And here, unfortunately, there is also no proposal to repeal that law, or very carelessly. So I'd like to ask the profile committee to pay attention to this so that we don't have one topic of two laws. We are considering the inclusion in the agenda of the day session of the draft Law amending article 292 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine to increase responsibility for interference with pipeline transport. [[Registration number 9344]] The subject of the legislative initiative is Kabmin. Please vote. [[11:18:01]] For 269 Included in the agenda. The issue of the inclusion in the agenda of the Draft Law on Amendments to Article 11 of the Ukrainian Law on Military Duty and Military Service (for the preparation of reserve officers) (registration No. 9333) is being considered. The subject of the legislative initiative is the Cabinet of Ministers. Please vote. [[11:18:34]] For 268. It's on. We are discussing the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Law on Requirements for Food Products and Materials, the Cabinet of Ministers bill. [[Bill 9450 registration number]] Please vote. [[11:19:09]] For 242 It's on. We are discussing the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Law amending article 18 of the Ukrainian Law on Principles for the Functioning of the Natural Gas Market. [[Registration number 9364]] The subject of the legislative initiative is the Cabinet of Ministers. Please vote. [[11:19:45]] For 259. It's on. We are discussing the inclusion in the agenda of the drafts of the Act on Amendments to certain legislative acts of Ukraine with a view to ensuring the reform of the oil and gas complex. [[Registration numbers 9429, 9429-1]] The first is the Cabinet of Ministers, the second is Karmizin's colleague. Please vote. [[11:20:27]] For 241 Included in the agenda. We are discussing the inclusion in the agenda of the project's day session of Amendments to Article 3.4 The position of the National Deputy Assistant Consultant of Ukraine's Cabinet of Ministers is the subject of the legislative initiative. [[on work experience]] [[Bill 9343 registration number]] Please vote. [[11:21:04]] For 259. The question is included. We are discussing the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act on Amendments to Article 7 of the Ukrainian Automobile Transport Act. [[on the organization of transports by the Kyiv Ministry of State]] [[Registration number of bill 9091]] The subject of the legislative initiative is the Cabinet of Ministers. Please vote. [[11:21:42]] For 269 Included in the agenda. We are discussing the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Law on the characteristics of the formation of the State Shareholders Association for the General Use of Rail Transport. [[Registration numbers 9337, 9337-1]] The subject of the legislative initiative is the Cabinet of Ministers and the National Deputy Carmazin. I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:22:20]] For 241 A decision has been made. We are discussing the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Law on Depository Accounting System of Securities. [[Registration numbers 9428, 9428-1]] The subject of the legislative initiative is the Cabinet of Ministers and the National Deputy Terjehohin. Please vote. [[11:22:57]] For 246 Decision taken. We are discussing the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act on Amendments to certain laws of Ukraine concerning the issuance of documents of a permissive nature in the field of economic activity. [[Bill number 9532]] The subject of the legislative initiative is the Royal. No, I'm sorry, Vladimir Litwin. Please vote. [[11:23:41]] For 266 Decision taken. We are discussing the inclusion in the agenda of the daily session of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts to address the issue of the introduction of the market circulation of agricultural destinations solely by an all-Ukrainian referendum. [[Registration number 9146]] The subject of the legislative initiative is the national deputy of Vetwicki. I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:24:19]] For-39 Not turned on. We are discussing the inclusion in the agenda of the day session of the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[on the use of the declaration of property, income, expenditure and financial liability]] Bill 9140 registration number. The subject of the legislative initiative is the national deputy Knjazević. I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:24:56]] For-0 Not turned on. We are discussing the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act on Amendments to certain laws of Ukraine concerning the borderline age of residence in the civil service, diplomatic service and service in local self-government. [[Registration number 9266]] Please vote. [[11:25:30.]] For 249 It's on. The inclusion in the agenda of the day session of the draft Act on Amendments to Appendix No. 3 to the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2011 is under consideration. [[amending the appointment of the budget]] Here is the drafter of the bill, a colleague of the Lukyans. Please vote. [[11:26:04]] For 270. It's on. The issue of the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act on Amendments to Article 17 of the Ukrainian Law on Military Duty and Military Service is being considered. [[on the granting of time-limits to candidates and doctors of science]] [[Bill number 9229]] The author of the bill is colleague Pinchuk. Please vote. [[11:26:41]] For 270. A decision has been made. We are discussing the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act on Amendments to the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[on the order in which texts of bills and accompanying documents are made available to members of the People's Parliament]] [[Registration number 9262]] The author of the bill is colleague Tomenko. [[11:27:19]] For 251 Included in the agenda. The inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act on Amendments to the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is under consideration. " [[on the optimization of the activities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine]] [[Bills No. 9322, 9322-1]] The drafters are Knjazevich and Volodymyr Litwin. Please vote. [[11:28:00]] For 270. A decision has been made. We are discussing the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act on Amendments to Article 257 of the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine on the hearing of criminal courts on crimes committed in an organized group or criminal organization. Please vote. [[11:28:36]] For-60 Not turned on. We are discussing the inclusion in the agenda of the Draft Law on Amendments to the Tax Code of Ukraine on the Taxation of ethyl alcohol for individual production. [[Registration number 9268]] Please vote. [[11:29:06]] For 266 A decision has been made. We are discussing the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian laws on mandatory civil liability insurance for land transport owners. [[Bill 9462 registration number]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:29:42]] For 243 A decision has been made. We're talking about the inclusion in the agenda of the day session of the project. [[Bill registration numbers 9205 and 9205-d]] The drafters are Player and where the "d" is worked by the committee. Please vote. [[11:30:24]] For 266 It's on. We are discussing the inclusion in the agenda of the day session of the draft Regulation on the provision of unhindered media activities during the pre-election period 2012. [[Registration number 9311]] Please vote. [[11:30:55]] For 265 It's on. Although, dear colleagues, I think every time we make such decisions before the elections, let's say in electoral legislation we're going to establish this norm and we don't have to produce papers. Dear colleagues, I missed one bill under number 9139 -- this is a draft law on reforming and improving the enabling system in the field of environmental protection, rational and lax use of natural resources and environmental security, reducing regulatory pressure on operators. The subject of the legislative initiative is the Cabinet of Ministers. Please vote. [[11:32:00]] For 240 Decision taken. And, dear colleagues, we need you to respond to a problem that has become quite acute. You know, when we passed some of the bills, we put in place to essentially eliminate the technical inventory office from January 1, 2012 and transfer these areas to the state agency. Since the government agency is just being formed, and you understand, whoever is meeting you at the polling stations, you know how relevant the issue is. It is therefore proposed that you and I postpone the introduction of this law, not as of January 1, 2012, but as of January 1, 2013. It is therefore proposed to include in the agenda of the day session a draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine to ensure the realization of real estate rights and their burdens under State registration, Bill 9545. Once again, we are implementing the Act amending the Law on State Registering of Real Property and Restrictions and Other Legislative Acts. This is especially true of the State Land Cadastre, and not since January 1, 2012, but since January 1, 2013. Please support the inclusion in the agenda of this bill. Please vote. [[11:33:53]] For 270. It's on. And I'm asking the Committee on Economic Policy to do everything we can to see and adopt this bill as a whole on Thursday. I repeat, it's quite short there, but we have to accept, sign with the President, so that from January 1st he doesn't create problems in the same place. In this regard, in order to produce the necessary legislation precisely for the inventory of real estate objects, I place the inclusion in the agenda of the daily project of the Ordinance on the Establishment of a Working Group on the Processing of Legislative Proposals for Inventory of Real Estate Objects. [[Registration number 9546]] Please be supportive. [[11:35:02]] For 271 I also ask you to prepare a committee on Thursday so that we can make the right decisions. Matthew, please. Valentin Grigorovich's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-07-m0.u27	Thank you. Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! Given that only the morning plenary session is held today, and as of December 16, the 110th anniversary of the birth of the Hero of the Soviet Union, Vatutina Mikoli Fedorovich will be celebrated. We asked the budget to get much closer, and what's more, we'd now consider the draft decision on this date. Moreover, the Committee on Culture and Spirituality considered this issue at its meeting and its decision: recommending to the Supreme Council the adoption of a draft decree on the observance of the Jubilee of Mikola Fedorovich Vatutina, the Supreme Council, to take the first reading today, as a whole. I ask Adam Ivanovich to postpone the discussion to the very beginning of our vote now in the first reading of the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-07-m0.u28	Let us be wiser: we will work in such a way that we will definitely consider this matter today, will definitely consider it today, will consider it today. We're looking at the draft Act on Amendments to Ukraine's Metal Smack Act. [[on the import procedure]] [[Registration number 9384]] There's an offer, with a reduced procedure. Please be supportive. [[11:37:03]] For 244 Offer supported. Reported by the Deputy Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources, Mormul Dmitry Dmitrovich. Get ready for Platoon. Please, two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-07-m0.u29	Thank you. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! Today, the issue of deregulation of farming relationships is pressing. The need to resolve this issue is due to the requirements of the economic reform programme in Ukraine. Amendments to Ukraine's metal scrapbooking Act provide for the deletion of a provision for the approval of imports of metal scrap metal by the executive authorities in the field of environmental protection into the place where metal scrap metal is to be processed. The removal of this agreement will not affect the effectiveness of State environmental surveillance, the control of metal scrap metal imports, since the Basel Convention is ratified in Ukraine, which in turn is implemented by a series of legal acts. In particular, the provisions of the convention are implemented by the provision for the control of transboundary movements of hazardous wastes and their disposal by means of a yellow and green list of wastes approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine Ordinance of 13 July 2000 at number 1120. The situation is that hazardous wastes can only be imported under the written consent of the Ministry of Nature, in view of the above, please support the adoption of the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-07-m0.u30	Thank you. From the Committee on Economic Policy, Alexy Plonikov.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-07-m0.u31	The President-in-chief, honourable national deputies, the Committee on Economic Policy at its meeting on 15 November 2011, Protocol 74, reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Metallurgy, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers, in accordance with 1.11.2011. [[on the import procedure]] The purpose of this law is to simplify the procedure for imports of scrap metal under the conditions of maintaining an active system of State control over imports, imports, and transit of scrap metal. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in its conclusion of 15 November 2011, believes that the first reading of the bill can be adopted on the basis of comments and suggestions made. Thus, the committee supported the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Metallurgy, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, respectively registration number 9384 of 1 November 2011, and recommended that the Supreme Council of Ukraine accept it as a basis and as a whole. [[on the import procedure]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-07-m0.u32	Yeah, we'll talk about it? Is there no need? Then, dear fellows, I'm voting on the proposal of a profile committee. There's the law, as you can see, a little change. Small changes. I'm putting a motion for a vote on the adoption of the whole Act on Amendments to Ukraine's Metal Trade Act on the Import Procedure. [[Registration number 9384]] Please vote. [[11:41:21]] For 256 Thank you, the law has been passed. We're discussing the draft Law amending article 22 of the Law on Heat Supply on the Transfer of Property, which is used to produce thermal energy. [[9399]] There's an offer, with a reduced procedure. Please be supportive. [[11:41:55]] For 230 Supported. Reported by Deputy Minister of Energy and Coal Industry Makuh Volodymyr Aleksyyyovich. Get Romanyuk ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-07-m0.u33	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! Ukraine's draft amendment to article 22 of the Heat Act is prepared for the implementation of the 2011 Action Plan after the implementation of the Economic Reform Programme, approved by the President's Decree of 27 April of the current year. The bill is designed to reduce the debt owed to energy - efficient operators and to prevent the accumulation of such debts. Today, there is a practice of transferring items of heat, including on the basis of decisions made by local authorities from one entity to another without the determination of the debtor. As a result of such decisions, the natural gas supplier NAC National Shareholder Naftogaz Ukraine remains with the debts of a previous operator who does not have any assets to repay them and the obligation to contract natural gas supplies with a new owner. To address this problem, it is envisaged to make appropriate changes to Ukraine's Heat Act. In particular, it is suggested that in the event of the liquidation of a legal person whose activities relate to the provision of thermal energy to consumers or the transfer of heat - generating equipment to other operators, the decision-making body must address the issue of the repayment of the entity’s debt to energy and gas suppliers. [[the subject of the farm]] In the event of a reorganization of the operator, where the debt of natural gas consumed and its services remained at the time of the reorganization, the legal successor to the debt obligations in full determines the operator to whom ownership was transferred to the basic assets of the reorganized object. Also, if the reorganization of the owner creates two or more operators to which ownership is partially transferred, the debtor will pay for the natural gas consumed and the transport of the property is determined by all the entities involved.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-07-m0.u34	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-07-m0.u35	And I want to point out that the adoption of this law will help increase the level of energy consumption calculations, including natural gas, to reduce the debt of the host subject, whose activities are related to the provision of consumer heat for energy consumption. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-07-m0.u36	Thank you. The committee is Romanyuk Mikopovich. Come on, Mikolo Prokopovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-07-m0.u37	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! The Committee on Fuel and Energy Complex, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security, at its meeting on 16 November this year, reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Article 22 of the Law on Heat Supply, which is used to produce heat energy, introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. [[Heat supply objects]] The bill is designed to reduce the debt owed to operators who are involved in the supply of heat to consumers for energy consumption to energy and gas-efficient companies. The bill proposes a mechanism for legislative settlement of legal succession issues, including debts, during the reorganization of the specified owners. The proposed amendments to article 22 of the Law on Heat Supply provide for the termination of a legal entity in charge of its activities relating to the provision of thermal energy to consumers, the transfer of heat-generating equipment on the basis of leases, concessions, leasings, management, etc., and the decision-making body shall, as a matter of urgency, address the issue of the repayment of such entity's debt to energy-efficient companies. The adoption of the draft law under consideration will help to increase the level of energy consumption and to prevent debt accumulation. As a result of the discussion, the Committee on Fuel and Energy Complex, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security adopted a decision to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the basis of the first reading of draft Bill 9399 as a basis. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-07-m0.u38	Thank you. Shall we discuss it? Vote? I put to the vote a proposal for a committee to adopt as a basis in the first reading a draft law amending article 22 of the Ukrainian Warm Supply Act, please vote. [[on the transfer of property used for the production of thermal energy of thermal facilities]] [[Registration number 9399]] [[11:47:24]] For 269 Thank you. Decision taken. I'm asking the committee to take a look at the scientific expertise and, if possible, take them into account when preparing for the second reading. We are considering the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the List of Permitted Documents in the Field of Economic Activities. [[concerning the unification of documents]] [[Registration number 9394]] There's an offer, with a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[11:48:04]] For 231 Offer supported. Reported by the Deputy Minister for Natural Resources Environment, Dmitri Dmitrovich Mormul. Prepare from the Chechtov Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-07-m0.u39	Thank you. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! On January 1, 2012, the Ukrainian Act "On the List of Allowances in Economic Activities" took effect. At the same time, the permissive documents provided for in the list are not always in line with the names of documents of a permissive nature provided for by legislative acts. Furthermore, there are no documents of a permissive nature that are required by the Ukrainian Laws on Protection of Air, on the Black Book of Ukraine, on the State Biosafety System for Testing, Transport and Use of Genetically Modified Organisms, on the Protection of Animals from Cruel Conduct, on the Ukrainian Natural and Command Fund, on waste, on removal from processing, destruction or further use of non-precious and dangerous products. It should be noted that with a view to deregulation and reducing the number of documents of a permissive nature, the bill provides for exceptions to a number of documents of a permissive nature. In view of the above, the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources has developed a draft Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Law on the List of Permitted Documents in the Field of Economic Activities. The adoption of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the List of Permitable Documents in the Field of Economic Activities will allow for the elimination of the conflict between legislation that regulates the need to obtain documents of a permissive nature and the Ukrainian Law on the List of Permitted Documents for Operators. In view of the above, please support the adoption of the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-07-m0.u40	Thank you. Have a seat. Head of the Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship Mikhailo Vasilovich Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-07-m0.u41	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! The Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship at its meeting on 15 November 2011 reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Law on the List of Allowances in Economic Activities, submitted by the Government. The purpose of the bill is to reconcile the provisions of the Ukrainian Law on the List of Permitted Documents in the Field of Economic Activities with those of the legislative acts in part of the harmonization of the names of documents of a permissive nature and to complete the List of documents of a permissive nature provided for in the laws. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in its conclusion to the bill, found that the first reading of the bill could be based on the following considerations and proposals. After considering and discussing the bill, the members of the committee noted that the adoption of the bill would allow for the elimination of the conflict between the laws governing the need to obtain documents of a permissive nature and the Ukrainian Act on List of documents of a permissive nature in the field of economic activity. In the light of the above, the committee members adopted a decision on the draft Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Law on the List of Permittive Documents in the Field of Economic Activities, submitted by the Government, submitted to the Supreme Council of Ukraine for consideration and proposed that it be accepted as a basis in the session room. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-07-m0.u42	Thank you, Mikhail Vasilovich. We'll vote. I will now put to the vote a proposal for adoption as a basis in the first reading of the Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the List of Permitted Documents in the Field of Economic Activity. [[concerning the unification of documents]] [[Registration number 9394]] Please vote. [[11:52:34]] For 268. Thank you. Decision taken. I'd like a profile committee to take into account what we've put into the agenda today, and I think tomorrow we're going to consider Bill 9532 of Vladimir Lithuania, where it's also about a permit system, because you and I, when we took it, were obliged to make a decision there by the local authorities for 10 days. You know, the session takes place once a month, so we need to settle and I want us to look at these documents in parallel. And in view of what really matters, it would be wise to enter into 2012 with the necessary drafts of documents. So I suggest you make a decision to shorten the procedure for dealing with this issue, to prepare it for the second reading for the next plenary week. Please be supportive. [[11:53:42]] For 241 We are considering a draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation to bring them into line with the Ukrainian Act on Social Dialogue in Ukraine. [[Registration number 9152]] There's an offer, with a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[11:54:24]] For 234 A decision has been made. Reported Deputy Minister of Social Policy Colomietz Viacheslav Mikolaiovich. Get ready for Dryma.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-07-m0.u43	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! The Supreme Council of Ukraine is being reviewed by a draft Ukrainian Act amending some Ukrainian legislative acts to bring them into line with the Ukrainian Act on Social Dialogue in Ukraine. The Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted the Ukrainian Social Dialogue Act in December 2010, which defines the order of social dialogue between social partners. To implement the Final Provisions of this Act, amendments to 15 valid laws of Ukraine have been prepared to ensure that they are brought into compliance with the Ukrainian Social Dialogue Act in Ukraine. In particular, the adopted law stipulated that the social dialogue with the authorities involved trade unions and employers who met the criteria of representativeness. The relevant rules on the criteria for the representativeness of trade unions and employers’ organisations are laid down in eight laws. The bill also provides for amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Order of Settlement of Collective Labour Disputes, which is proposed to be applied to the National Mediation and Reconciliation Service and its regional departments to assess whether the criteria for representativeness of trade unions and employers' organisations are met, as provided for in the Law on Social Dialogue in Ukraine. The Ukrainian Social Dialogue Act also stipulated that the government, central and local executive authorities are taking sides in the social dialogue. In connection with this bill, it is envisaged that four valid laws should be amended. The bill also provides for a number of other technical changes to existing laws regarding the conclusion of sectoral and territorial agreements. Dear National Deputies! The bill proposed to you will ensure that the laws of Ukraine are brought into line with the Law on Social Dialogue in Ukraine and will improve the practical application of its provisions. But it will help improve the interaction of the parties.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-07-m0.u44	Thank you. Have a seat, please. The committee is Jaroslav Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-07-m0.u45	Dear colleagues! On December 23, 2010, we adopted the Social Dialogue Act, which is very painful and extremely necessary under market transformation conditions. To implement article 20 of the final regulations of Ukraine's law, the government is introducing this bill that we are considering with you today. In general, the bill, which the deputy minister reported, provides for changes to the requirements of article 20 of the final regulations, changes to Ukrainian laws, and a list of these bills follows. The Committee believes that the adoption of the bill in the first reading will facilitate interaction between the parties to the social dialogue at all levels, more fully ensuring the socio-economic interests of the parties, including those employed. Reaching an understanding between them, creating the necessary conditions to further improve negotiation processes and dialogue between representatives of the State, trade unions and employers. At the same time, the committee draws the attention of the government to persistent shortcomings and neglect of the legislative acts that come to the committee. The committee notes that not all bills have been amended, i.e. there is no complete list. Serious comments from employers and trade unions Serious comments from social insurance directors. The bill needs to be redrafted with the requirements of standard-setting technology. A number of comments were made by the main scientific and expert management. The Institute of Legislation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the Institute of Demographics and Social Research. Therefore, given that the bill is aimed at enhancing the interaction of the parties to the social dialogue and allows it to be improved in preparation for the second reading, the committee decided to recommend the sessions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt the bill as a basis for the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-07-m0.u46	Thank you. There's no need.? Yes. Please, Stoyan, two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-07-m0.u47	Dear colleagues, I want to say that social dialogue is an active mechanism that is used in many countries of the world, where all important issues are resolved at the legislative level. When governments, employers, trade unions on a tripartite basis address the issue of budgeting, social pay. And according to the experience of many countries, without agreement with this institution, there is no parliamentary review of state budgets that are not approved or approved by social programmes. So thank God it took us 15 years to pass such a law on social dialogue. But as the deputy minister also reported, and it is argued in particular by a fellow Suhi, that there are many inaccuracies in this law, particularly those of the primary professional organizations that represent the interests of the people of work. That is, it really needs to make a more clear commitment on both the part of employers and on the part of the government regarding the conclusion of a contract of employment, collective agreements first and foremost. Moreover, this bill should reinforce the responsibility of the parties, primarily employers and government parties, for the unconditional implementation of those agreements that are enshrined in the collective agreement or in the general agreement. Well, that's a specific example. Trade unions have long agreed that the need to change the consumer basket, the machine worked, is to calculate the cost of the consumer basket. This consumer basket is known to provide a minimum of living that has not been reviewed since 2000, and the consumer basket has not been inspected. Of course, today’s consumer basket - based subsistence minimum is 30 percent too low. And that means that the underpaid social payments, the underpaid minimum wage, and so on. And so, of course, it is necessary to review and oblige the government to carry out a social dialogue.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-07-m0.u48	Thank you. Let's vote, dear fellows. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts to bring it into line with the Ukrainian Act on Social Dialogue in Ukraine. [[Registration number 9152]] Please vote. [[12:01:49]] For 268. Decision taken. I'm asking the committee to pay attention to what my colleague Dry talked about, and that in the conclusion of the scientific expertise, we're going to take into account all the laws that apply, because unfortunately, there's still no accounting. Consider: The draft Law. Dear colleagues, we've had so many breaks, let's work without interruptions, we've had more than a break. We're looking at a draft Act on the characteristics of the sale of shares belonging to the State in the statutory capital of banks that the State has taken part in capitalization. [[Bill 9362 registration number]] There's a proposal for a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[12:02:51]] For 236 Offer supported. Reported by Deputy Minister Ribak Sergey Alexanderovich. Get ready, Homutinik.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-07-m0.u49	Thank you. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! Your opinion is proposed a bill on the characteristics of the sale of bank shares belonging to the State in the statutory capital of the banks in which the State participated. As everyone knows, in 2009, the State in the Ministry of Finance took part in the capitalization of three banks: the Rodood Bank, the Kiev Bank and the Ukrgazbank Bank. The State's spending on capitalization and recapitalisation of these banks totalled 25.8 billion dollars, resulting in a 99.99 per cent stake in the State of statutory capital of these banks: 99.99 per cent in the Bank's Rodowdow, 99.94 per cent in Kiev and 93 per cent in Kragazbank. The state does not plan spending on additional capitalization of these banks, however, the continuation of the State’s ownership of their stock packages risks additional spending on Ukraine’s State budget and the need to raise their level of capitalization. The need for adoption of the bill is due to the urgent need to regulate the state’s exit order. The sale process of bank shares is significantly different from the privatisation of public property objects, since it provides for a professional intermediary between a seller and a buyer who plays a key role in the successful sale of stock packages. Moreover, the earliest adoption of the bill is a fundamental condition for further cooperation with financial institutions. This bill foresees, let me highlight the main points that are reflected in it, the regulation of the principles of sale of government particles in banks, the identification of objects and entities, the sale of bank shares, and the creation of a transparent mechanism.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-07-m0.u50	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-07-m0.u51	Thank you. It's literally two more seconds. . setting requirements for those who may be potential buyers. Failures to buy shares of individuals who owned a significant share of them at the time of capitalization. There is also a procedure for the sale of stock packages, content is revealed, features of individual stages are regulated, and financial relationships are regulated for the sale of stock packages. And this will give a significant boost to the further settlement of these banks' activities. Please accept this bill in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-07-m0.u52	Head of the Committee on Finance, Banking, Tax and Customs Policy, Vitaly Homutinnik
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-07-m0.u53	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! At its meeting, the Committee considered Bill 9362 on the capitalization of banks in which. in the statutory capital of which the State has taken part. It means when banks were recapitalized after the 2009 crisis. It was the Bank of Kiev, the Bank of Rodowdow, the Bank of Krokgazbank. At that time, the state spent 26 billion dollars on the decapitalization of these banks. Today, one of the banks has decided that this bank has to be rehabilitated, this is Rodowidinkk, so this law can only be applied to those banks that remain, or the Bank of Kiev and the Bank of Krugazbank. The committee made a number of comments on the bill. First. That's who's got to sell. whether to conduct competitions for the sale of banking institutions. The bill states that this should be done by the Ministry of Finance. But we are. If under the Act on the Management of State Property Objects, it clearly states that "the alienation of State corporate rights is carried out in accordance with the law" and that is what the State Property Fund should do. [[Article 11 of this Law]] That's the first one. Secondly, the committee does not fully agree that stocks should only be displayed. The total package is 90 percent there, and there's no way to split these packets. That's two. The third question is the limitation on the number of people who cannot be strategic investors. This is about former shareholders. And the fourth is the possibility of involving a counselor who has to determine how.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-07-m0.u54	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-07-m0.u55	which has to determine all the questions about sales, including investor search and pricing. So these questions remained open. And the committee decided to recommend that the bill and the second reading should be based on joint work with the Ministry of Finance in order to find answers to these questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-07-m0.u56	Thank you. Except for Arjovitin. Karykov. Others don't insist? Then please, Stanislaw Arzevetin. Get ready for the Queen.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-07-m0.u57	Dear national MPs, such a law to our state, and including those banks that are being sold, do not need it. In large numbers, this bill. peculiarity is that there are no sales mechanisms in the name of sales. The only money in this bill is the introduction of the incomprehensible and, to me, the questionable "seller" of these banks. Now our country is destroying the existing system of sales of government particles -- what the head of our committee said. Instead, there's an institution of advisors that has to determine the price of a bank for our money or for taxpayers' money, little, should determine the investors that are going to buy those banks. Please tell us, why do we need the State Property Fund, then why do we need the State Investment Agency, why do we need the State Agency for the Administration of State Corporate Rights and Property, if this function is now performed by some, incomprehensible, member of sales of these particles? When the Cabinet of Ministers bought, of course, there was no need for law. Why, then, a law that does not require mechanisms to sell these parts? Moreover, as members of our committee have pointed out, this bill lays down anti-market and anti-democratic standards for the sale of parts of these banks. Well, as it has been pointed out, if it's forbidden to share that the shares that will dramatically worsen the price position are limited to investors or potential owners or buyers of the bank. That's why I don't think such a bill is necessary. So we've recently made decisions about a sanitizer bank that has to deal with these two remaining banks. I think that chips and money, that's what's hidden in this bill, is an institution, I'm stressing once again, an institution of councilors for the sale of stocks, that's why this bill is needed.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-07-m0.u58	Eugene Kzarkov, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-07-m0.u59	I would like to say that, indeed, our faction has raised the greatest concern of what the previous speaker has said, that the function of the State Foundation is being replaced, but that this position has been sounded, I will tell you why our faction will not vote in favour of this law or vote against it. Well, in figures and in short, over the course of this time, 26 billion, about 25.8 has been poured into these three banks by the State. It is understood that the value of bank hospachets on sale will be the value of their capital. I bring you the cost of capital, which today is: at Rodowd Bank - 2,043 billion, Ukrgazbank - 1.8 billion and Kiev - 0.77 billion. So by investing 25 billion there, they're actually offering to sell these banks for 4.5 billion. I'll tell you that this opinion is not only our faction, but independent experts also say that selling these banks today, which have nationalized the State with such difficulty, is not possible, and experts from the group say, for example, “Dregankepital”. And they calculated that next year, even if we were to ask about sales, the value of the package and the State's supply would be two or three times higher. Also, analysts from Platinum Bank, again I bring this to professionals, say that if I take out the shares on the IPO, I can make four times as much money as I can, thereby returning the 25 billion money and making more money on it. But our faction is categorically opposed to selling what is nationalized, because the beautiful names of our banks conceal Western investors: the same "Aval" is the Austrian group "Raiffeisen", the same "UkrSibbank" is the French BNP Paribas, the TAC group is the famous Swedish "Swidbank", and "Ukrsocbank" is an Italian group, and Germany owns the "Forum" bank. That is to say, in a large way, we are losing our influence on our banking system, and, on the contrary, in our country, at least for example, Russia should increase its share in the State regulation of our country's banking system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-07-m0.u60	Question completed. I would like to vote on the proposal of a profile committee to adopt, on the basis of the draft Act on the characteristics of the sale of shares belonging to the State in the statutory capital of banks whose capitalization was taken by the State. [[Registration number 9362]] I'd like to make a statement. [[12:13:51]] For 236 Adopted in the first reading. By factions, please: The Party of Regions – 179, BUT – 0, "Our Ukraine - 5, the Communists did not vote, "Reforms" – 20, "The People's Party". [[B in m in s a l in]] I repeat, where the "yes" was not voted on, means "against" was voted on. People's Party is 20, non-fractional is 12. The draft Act amending article 5 of the Ukrainian Law on Judicial Assembly is under consideration. [[on complementing the list of categories of credits]] [[Registration number 9393]] There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. Please be supportive. [[12:14:50]] For 224 Offer supported. Reported to Deputy Minister of Economic Development and Trade, Vladimir Volodymyrovich, to prepare Homutinik.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-07-m0.u61	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! The draft Ukrainian Law amending article 5 of the Ukrainian Law on the Judicial Assembly is presented for your consideration. [[Registration number 9393]] The draft Law was prepared to settle the problem of the lack of funds of the State Reserve for payment to the court. The problem arose in connection with the adoption by the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the Ukrainian Law of 08.07.2011, No. 3674, "For the Judicial Assembly", which provides for payment of court fees, appeals and complaints. Article 5 of the Act sets out the benefits for payment of the debt practically for the same payers who were exempt from the payment of the public duty in accordance with article 4, part one, paragraph 40, of the Decree of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine of 21 January 2001 No 7-93 on State Customs. Yet, Ukraine’s reserves are not included in this list. While he was relieved of payment of the State's duty to enforce the obligations arising out of the Ukrainian State Reserve Act. In 2011, the agency did not have funds to pay the Assembly, nor did the Ukrainian State Budget 2012 project provide for the provision of a reserve for payment to the court. With statistics on the number of applications filed last year since 1 November 2011, it is necessary to provide for a budget allocation of some 15 million dollars per year to be paid by the court when filing a claim, appeal and cassation complaints. Yes, during the tenth year of the reserve, 31 applications were filed for the return of property worth 635 million dollars, 23 applications for recognition by a creditor of 233 million dollars. In 2011, the Reservoir filed 10 applications for return of property worth 14 million dollars and 19 applications for recognition by its creditor of 74 million dollars. We therefore propose the adoption of the Ukrainian law on making changes to article 5 of the Ukrainian Law on the Judicial Assembly as a basis and as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-07-m0.u62	Thank you. Hometicist Vitaly, head of the Committee on Finance, Banking, Tax and Customs Policy.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-07-m0.u63	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! Since first November of this year, a new Law on the Judicial Congregation has been in force. Before that, the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on government duties worked. And in that decree, really, there was a government reserve, there was a reserve that was freed from these tax burdens. Thus, the government introduced a bill stipulating that the amendments to the Law on Judicial Assembly also proposed exemption from the payment of court fees by the State Reserve Agency of Ukraine. The committee reviewed the Cabinet of Ministers initiative and recommended that it be accepted as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-07-m0.u64	Thank you. Shall we discuss it? I think it's clear what to talk about? Please sign up who wants to. Stone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-07-m0.u65	Please pass the word to a colleague of Pisarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-07-m0.u66	Pisarenko and Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-07-m0.u67	Dear colleagues! Dear Adam Ivanovich! I want to tell you that this year we have made a historic event with you, and in 20 years of independence, we have finally given the judicial system a judicial assembly that was governed exclusively by the decree of the Cabinet of Ministers. And we've done this with you to make not only an independent judicial system, but we've also taken a serious step with you to ensure that each of the officials, each of the public officials who, on behalf of the state, apply to the court or goes to court when he goes to court, pays and is under the same conditions as the other party to the trial. To prove why it's necessary to pay the state funds, and you've just heard that only after the lawsuits that the Cabinet of Ministers has calculated, you have to pay 15 million dollars. So this is the official who will pay the court to file a lawsuit, he should pay himself due for using state funds. If you and I are going to take steps to include separate government institutions, individual bodies that think we need to be tried, and we know with you, a large number of these lawsuits and courts, it doesn't need a state, and sometimes cover up some unnecessary things, then we're going to make you not actually an effective law that we've approved with you. So I think we need to be with you anyway today as a whole not to accept it. And if such a law is to be adopted today as a basis, look carefully at the extent to which we need these benefits. Because if you and I are the only ones who give an official or a person who doesn't count the costs of the state, the right to go to court at any time with any suit, then you and I are making unequal sides of the trial here. Please note this and do not accept this bill in the manner in which it is presented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-07-m0.u68	Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-07-m0.u69	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Dear Adam Ivanovich, dear colleagues, I have just read an explanatory note on this bill. And at first glance, there's the impression that there's an argumentary basis here that the State Reserve is actually suing, it's funding from the state budget, and it's worth getting rid of the court, from this point of view. But on the other hand, let's also note this, if we judge from this bill and some of the previous bills, we can see a trend towards the liberation of executive authorities, generally executive authorities, from the payment of the court. The question is, you know, ambiguous question. In fact, the same executive authorities are being released, but this is at the expense of other authorities of the same state. In this case, we need to talk about judicial authority. After all, when a State institution, a judicial institution, and this is true, does not pay this court congregation. If such logic is followed, then, frankly, all state institutions should be freed from the judicial congregation, for this is, to some extent, selective. So I would like to agree with the opinion of the previous speaker, Valerius Pisarenko, that the first reading clearly allows us to adopt this bill and continue to improve it. But I would like to draw the attention of the developers and those involved in this issue to the fact that all will be released from the judicial congregation. When we're talking about platinum, obviously this has to apply to citizens, poor citizens who can't serve can't pay that money. And taking it from one government office and passing it on to another, frankly, is not a lot of logic.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-07-m0.u70	Question completed. I'm voting on the proposal of a profile committee to adopt a draft law amending article 5 of the Ukrainian Law on Judicial Assembly. [[on complementing the list of categories of credits]] [[Registration number 9393]] Please vote. [[12:23:49]] For 264 Decision taken. We are considering a draft Act amending the Criminal and Procedural Codes of Ukraine. [[on crimes against morality in the area of sexual relations]] [[Registration number 9135]] There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. Please be supportive. [[12:24:22]] For 228 Supported. He'll report. And the reporter and co-reporter is the head of the committee's subcommittee on legislative and law enforcement issues, Victor Viktorovich Shemczuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-07-m0.u71	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! Since I'm going to report a bill that I'm the author of, both from myself and from the committee, I'd like to say literally a few words about what preceded the introduction of this and the following bills. Bills are put in place to protect children from violence and sexual exploitation. You know that Ukraine today is one of the leaders in Europe and the world in the field of sexual exploitation of children, child pornography and child prostitution, which we have not once criticized by the United Nations and other international organizations. According to statistics we have received from the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Attorney General’s Office and the courts, it has indeed been established that the legislative framework that exists today in the area of attracting perpetrators of crimes related to sexual exploitation, child prostitution and child pornography is horrendous. As a result, these bills were introduced as a result of such international initiatives, including those of the United Nations, UNESCO, and the European Union. They were also preceded by a round table that supported the idea of teaching in the bill, experts, practitioners confirmed that today's changes to criminal, criminal and procedural legislation in this area are on time. The social discussion that took place before these bills were drafted and introduced also confirmed the relevance of these problems. To date, 55,000 signatures have been collected to support the bill. The President of Ukraine is familiar with these bills and requires the adoption of these bills in the first order, which is the corresponding letter and which has been stated in due course by the President's representative in Parliament. The general trend today in the world is that if we don't adopt these bills, we're still going to be in a cohort of countries called "sexual reserves." Where children are exploited, where there are problems in protecting them from violence. As far as Bill 9135 is concerned, the purpose of the draft law is to carry out modern criminal legislation in line with international standards. The project proposes a new edition of articles 301, 302 and 303 of the Criminal Code for the purpose of unifying the formulation of the respective articles. In addition, the project is designed to complement the Codex Code with the new article 301 with the badge 1: "Involvement in the Creation of Pornographic Objects". By authorizing the conduct of pretrial investigations in such cases on the internal affairs authorities. In particular, responsibility is placed for the commission of a listed crime category in organized crime groups. The adoption of this law will help harmonise criminal legislation. Having examined the proposed bill, Ukrainian deputies, members of the Legal Security and Legislative Committee, the possibility of recommending a prescribed law for adoption in the first reading was concluded. I'd like to support you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-07-m0.u72	Thank you. Is that clear? No, no, no. I am voting on the proposal to adopt a draft law amending the Criminal and Procedural Codes of Ukraine. [[on crimes against morality in the area of sexual relations]] [[Registration number 9135]] Please vote. [[12:28:19]] For 271 Decision taken. We are considering, the draft law amending the Criminal and Criminal Procedure Codes of Ukraine, is a proposal to be considered in a simplified procedure. [[on sexual relations with a person who has not reached the age of 16]] [[Registration number 9136]] [[12:28:53]] For 237 Supported. Shemczuk Viktor Viktorovich is both a reporter and a co-reporter.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-07-m0.u73	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! The bill establishes criminal responsibility for sexual relations with a person who has not reached the age of 16. The purpose of the project is to specify the provisions of the article of the Criminal Code on responsibility for the article "Relationship with a person who has not reached sexual maturity" in order to reduce the human factor's impact on the determination of guilt or innocence in the commission of a crime directly when the fact that the crime has been committed has been established. Because that's not going to make sense of it. As of today, we are confident that this bill will ensure the sexual exploitation of persons between 14 and 16 years of age and will allow for the regulation of the unregulated rules currently in force in criminal law. A committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on law enforcement conducted a round table to discuss the proposed positions with the participation of leading scientists, scientists, and practitioners. The flaws and observations expressed can be corrected when preparing the prescribed law for the second reading. Therefore, the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of the prescribed bill in the first reading as a basis. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-07-m0.u74	Yes. Shall we discuss it? Dear colleagues, on the one hand, and it's a good thing we're not discussing it. On the other hand, let's see if we're doing the right thing. Or are we doing the right thing, because a fake marriage is a once-in-a-lifetime spit. And here's a child who's been treated the way someone does, of course, that's a very calm decision: a fake marriage -- and a person gets rid of responsibility. I'd like to support here the conclusion of the scientific expertise that this bill is to be rejected. Let's not rush it. 14 and 16 years are still children. I am your will as it is, but I would ask you not to support this bill. I am voting on the committee's proposal to adopt a draft law amending the Criminal and Procedural Codes of Ukraine. [[on sexual relations with a person who has not reached the age of 16]] I'd like to make up my mind. There's a little bit there, I'm afraid. [[12:31:38]] For 223 Thank you. The decision is not taken. The bill was removed. I'm gonna say it again. Let us be very wise and balanced. 14-16 years! And we say, if she marries, that's it, she's free, if that's it. You don't have to. Let's protect the children. A draft Law amending the Code of Administrative Offences on Increasing Responsibility for Violations of the Installation and Use of Special Light or Audio Signal Devices is under consideration. [[Bill No. 9293]] There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. [[12:32:36]] For 230 He'll report to Pisarenko, please. The committee is Shemchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-07-m0.u75	Honorable colleagues, Adam Ivanovich, are talking about amending article 122 of the fifth chapter of the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences, namely, a violation of the system of installation, the use of special light or sound signal devices. Today this position is settled, but whoever today wants to install a special light or signal device will eventually pay about 800 bracelets and move on. A DAI worker would not even be obliged to dismantle such a person by means of these special world devices. What did this lead to? What we actually have today in most regions and who make more or less money is putting everything that lights up, blinks or sounds on the car. To date, we want to amend the Code of Administrative Offences and establish that we will have a responsibility in the first place to increase financial responsibility. It rises 50 times and rises to nearly 50,000 dollars to finally become more responsible than the same devices, and perhaps sometimes more than the cost of a car. This, in our view, will stop the illegal use of such devices. Moreover, we grant the DAI employees the right to prohibit the use of a vehicle to dismantle special light or sound signal devices after temporary detention. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-07-m0.u76	Please, head of the committee on the legislative protection of the activities of Victor Viktorovich Shemchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-07-m0.u77	Thank you, Reverend Adam Ivanovich. I want to say, within the regulations, that the unadopted bill, which has recently been voted in 223 votes, is precisely allowing your comments, which are not professional, to continue to flourish today in the porn industry and in the sexual exploitation of children in Ukraine. Thank you, gentlemen, to the Communists. Thank you for your non-frustrational. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Law Enforcement of Law Enforcement has been reviewed by the People’s Deputies of Ukraine Pisarenko, Philippenk’s draft Law amending the Code of Administrative Offences on the Strengthening of Responsibility for Violations of the Order of Installation and Use of Special Light or Audio Devices. The bill has been drafted to increase the impact on those who have committed administrative offences provided for in Article 122 with the 5 badge to raise respect for legislative norms and to prevent new offences from being committed by both offenders and others. In this connection, it is proposed to increase the fine for administrative offences provided for in this article by 50 times. In addition, it is proposed to establish the obligation to confiscate illegally installed light or sound signal devices and to grant State Automobile Inspectors the right to prohibit the use of vehicles before dismantling special light or sound signal devices after temporary detention. After reviewing the bill, the committee considers it possible to recommend to the Supreme Council that it be accepted on the first reading as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-07-m0.u78	Thank you. Yes, Zarubinsky, then Filipenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-07-m0.u79	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues, a perfectly correct bill, a just, honest bill. I just have a question, and why can't we vote on it today as a whole? What is there to change? What are the moments when something needs to be changed? In general, it is entirely possible to vote. Here's the interesting thing, the science-expert department says fines don't have the same effect on reducing such offences. But now, in the conclusion of the scientific expertise, I quote, the problem in the bill must be solved, not by raising the fine, but by ensuring the inviolability of applying the charges. That's absolutely right. That's why the fine has to be increased. Because, excuse me, a simple man, a taxi driver, will never make that sound signal, the more the light signal. Those for whom this fine is $50,000 are pew. You understand perfectly who makes these signs and uses them. On the other hand, other ingredients are such as not allowing the vehicle to be used until it is dismantled. The other one. And the third. Dismantling it immediately and not being able to use it is a complex approach to this problem. The penalty – once, not allowing us to use – two, immediately dismantle – three. It's absolutely the right approach. Please vote in general. Once again, ordinary people don't set themselves up with light. They're the ones who can pay and they're not that kind of fine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-07-m0.u80	Thank you. Please, Philippe.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-07-m0.u81	Thank you. Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, for what purpose was this bill tabled by me and my fellow national MPs, Pisarenko and Vorotnuk? We all know that road users have the same rights, but some road users, because they have only one and a half thousand dollars, think they have more rights than other road users. I'll remind you how much now. Which is now a sanction for the illegal installation of light devices. It's about 800 bucks. That's $100. How much does it cost to install and equip these light devices on your car? About $300 or $500. So if a person has such a sum, of course he can pay this tiny fine, which is compared to the price for installing these devices. But why are these devices installed on the car by private individuals? In order to continue violating traffic rules. Thus, when a person sets up light and sound devices, he consciously knows that he will continue to allow road traffic rules to be violated, and all other road users should stop and give him the road. [[It doesn't matter who it is, whether it's a cab driver or a national MP.]] So in this case we're talking about increasing the fine. An increase in the fine, a change in sanctions will only result in the State getting more money than someone thinks they have more rights to violate traffic rules than other people do. I think we all see when there are traffic jams on the streets, even in Kiev, and there are different kinds of foreign brands, regardless of their value, cutting and crossing intersections, including either light-signs or sound signals. And we don't know who's in these stamps. But in most cases, when a State inspector tries to fine him, it turns out that all these cars are equipped with such devices illegally, and as a result, it is not effectively possible to combat this offence. I also ask you to support the proposal of Zarubinsky's colleague, and to vote on the bill as a whole, because in this case.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-07-m0.u82	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-07-m0.u83	We only increase the sanctions and give effective powers to self-inspectors to react and assign to such persistent administrative violations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-07-m0.u84	Thank you. Cowchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-07-m0.u85	We have great doubts about this bill if it were not created by election. It is the case that sound devices that stand on advertising machines that will be used during the election campaign may well be treated by militia personnel as a sound device that is illegally installed. And that's how we get here. And if you notice, there is such a rule that until the audio device is dismantled, the car is not allowed to be used. Therefore, the faction of communists until the order or decryption of the audio device is clearly regulated, we will not vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-07-m0.u86	Dear colleagues, let's really deal with this. Yes, Comrade Kravchenko is right, just as each of you can think. You and I, on the one hand, we look at it and we realize that light and sound devices are what flashes and what it says. But the agitation machine also talks and also blinks because you can set the screens there and so on. So I would ask, right now I'm asking the authors and the experts if we could now, by adopting the law as a whole, write down either "except special cars for agitation," or some other word to say that it's only about what we understand, not what we can then understand. [[I'm for taking him in.]] Please, there is such an offer. Pisarenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-07-m0.u87	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, indeed, the problem raised, it can trouble everyone during this pre-election period. But what I want to say is that we have special world or sound special devices defined not only what this is, not only in the Code of Administrative Offences, but also in the Order of the President of March 30, 2005, but also in the Order of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of 22.08.2005. So it's regulated by law and it's impossible to confuse it. But if the session room wants to be more specific, I don't mind being the author of the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-07-m0.u88	Yeah, well, how about who can help? Maybe except for the cars. Schemchuk, please. Now, now.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-07-m0.u89	Dear Adam Ivanovich, dear colleagues, I think that if we add to the limitations that are foreseen by the changes to article 265 with the 2, now for the protocol, that the amendment should be either "demonstance of special light or sound signal devices."
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-07-m0.u90	Zarubinski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-07-m0.u91	In principle, you can agree with that, but you can do it this way when you say "special devices" just to say what's meant by the existing rule in the law, where it's absolutely clear that it's a device and clearly there's no agitation. Well, it's like duplicating the existing law and it's a simple option.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-07-m0.u92	So let's do it this way, your honorary colleagues, that, in fact, we are now voting in the entire law with a mandate and a profile committee, and the Chief Legal Authority: in preparing it for signature, let's do it again, first, to repeat what they say about what's meant by these devices, and to clarify it -- except for the acknowledgmentary, so that, in fact, during the campaign of campaigning, we don't appear in the same place as you. And not just the electorate. And not only the election and any kind of rally could lead to the car being taken away, because you didn't seem to have the right to install a loudspeaker on it. Is there any objection if we do so? Then I would like to put to the vote the proposal to adopt, as a whole, the Law amending the Code of Administrative Offences on Increasing Responsibility for Violations of the Procedure for the Use of Special Light or Audio Signal Devices, with the task of the Professional Committee and the Chief Legal Authority to amend those amendments that we have agreed with you. Please vote. [[12:45:43]] For 270. Thank you. The law is passed. We are considering a draft law amending the Criminal and Procedural Code on Ukraine. Yeah, sorry, that's not it. The draft Law on Helping Families Who Can’t Have Children. [[Registration number 9201]] There's a proposal for a reduced procedure. [[12:46:22]] For 224 Yes, he will. Here's one reporter. Please, Caplienne, get Bachteev ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-07-m0.u93	Dear fellow citizens! Ukrainians are smaller every year because they are less born than they die. There are many reasons. Among them are experts who call the demographic crisis, the increase in infertility, and economic instability in families. In doing so, more than 13 percent of family couples in Ukraine, including young people, have been exposed to the problem of infertility today. And in most cases the cause is called the increased incidence of maternal anomalies, which is constantly increasing mainly among women of reproductive age. Each year nearly three thousand women in Ukraine are removed from their baby’s womb. And so the question is, what do those women whose nature has not been given by the uterus or by the doctors and against their will do? It's a very serious question, because it's not just a physical issue, it's a psychological one. The purpose of the draft law of the parliamentary group Reform for the Future, which we are looking at, is quite simple to help the needy in this rather intimate sphere. The law introduces the concept of "assistant motherhood", extends to Ukrainian citizens and is called upon to prevent any form of discrimination against social and public relations in this area. The law introduces a state and private programme of assisted motherhood, deals with the protection of the rights of mothers and families who receive an infant with the help of an auxiliary mother, provides a clear and understandable algorithm for the recognition of the child's origin in the application of auxiliary technologies, protects the rights of genetic parents, an auxiliary mother and, above all, a born child. In particular, for a family that receives a baby, it's about maintaining confidentiality, ensuring the protection of children's rights, financial support, which is equal to the level of payment of any mother in Ukraine, and legal State support. In the case of assisted mothers, their rights are also ensured by the maintenance of confidentiality and State support, including through the introduction of periods in which the auxiliary mother provided services, employment, material assistance from the State, compulsory medical and psychological support. The law also provides for one of the departments of the existing department of the Ministry of Health to be assigned to regulate the program.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-07-m0.u94	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-07-m0.u95	We, the authors of the law, agree with most of the suggestions made by the expert board. But we want to prove that we can fix everything before the second reading, without violating 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules of Procedure Act. Please vote in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-07-m0.u96	Aunt Dmitrovna Bahechev, head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-07-m0.u97	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished members of the people! Our committee considered the bill on 2 November. And the decision is not to support it, send it to work. We clearly support the legislative initiative of the people's deputies. Such bills had already been tabled at the last session, but had not been considered by the Supreme Council. Today we are talking about the grave demographic crisis in our country that we are supporting the birth of a child today. But this bill violates the rights. According to the rights of the Constitution. Today, a new body that they recommend cannot be allowed to act as a supportive reproductive method for men. We are allowed to have families today when we have a mother and a father, then surrogate motherhood can be permitted. Neither the General Research and Expert Office – does support this bill – the Health Committee, the Ministry of Finance, because more than 50 million bracelets are needed. The Ministry of Health does not support Ukraine. And when the people's deputies introduced the bill, we decided that our committee would be able to help work on the topic, support the legislative initiative, but that it should be prepared not by declaration, but by means of the rules that exist. And there is a very large number of medical terms in this law, which have long been settled in regulations, so the bill needs only to be finalized and not voted in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-07-m0.u98	Thank you. Besides King's Landing, who else? Please, Eugene Kzarykov, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-07-m0.u99	The Communist faction will not vote in favour of the bill and on the facts that our colleagues from the Party of the Regions have said and on that argument, but there is another hidden rule. Once again, I will be called homophobics and those who will not vote in favour of this bill. But there is still a dangerous mine, where today the so-called "parent one and parent two" is the gender standard they want to introduce, namely: homosexuals, lesbians will be able to come and use the services of this centre. That is to say, if one of the uncles takes the child again, he raises and largely uses Ukrainian women as a tool for carrying such children, and this will allow the future to be maimed not only by the institution of the family but also by the particular child. And the second question. That is, there is a clear funding mechanism for such structures in the Ministry of Health today, which means that the same means can be allocated to Minhvoda for reproductive medicine and that instead of the 100-150 couples who are serving in these centres today, more needy ones – 200, 300, 400 families and so on.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-07-m0.u100	Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. I would also like to draw attention to one important question. Ladies and gentlemen, let's do our best. I was asking who wanted to speak. I repeat, it was because I did not just give Kzarykova for beautiful eyes, because he volunteered to speak. Please, who's in the group? But please don't sleep. Who? Sorochinsky, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-07-m0.u101	Dear colleagues, yes, I really want to say that the Reformation for the Future faction has proposed this bill in order to approve the legislative base of parents and surrogate mothers who will agree to bring the biological child of parents. Yes, there are 200 couples in our country, more than 200 couples a year there are surrogate motherhood, parenthood. But the centres of reproductive health are, unfortunately, used only for commercial purposes, providing people with very high costs, treating even foreigners. And our full - time family couples, who can't really have a baby by medical means, can't have a surrogate mother. In Belarus, U.S.A., law is passed in other countries. I would like to study it, refine it, and give the most difficult sick woman and husband, having a family together, wishing to have their own child, allowing the legislation and legislation to ensure the rights of both the surrogate mother and the parents. Our faction will propose and vote and asks for the support of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-07-m0.u102	Thank you. We have concluded our discussion. Apart from the suggestions that have been made here, and the comments, I'm referring to another very important point that there is a direct violation of the Constitution where we propose to create an organ. It is not the Supreme Council, but the President of Ukraine. What everyone needs to deal with is clear, but it really needs to be settled so that there is no harm to this bill. That's why I'm also supporting a professional committee that's concluded that we need to work on this, and that the bill is rejected by the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority. I mean, once again, there is a problem, but it needs to be solved legally so that it does not harm. As a result of the discussion, I am voting on the proposal of the authors, because the committee, I said, did not support the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority, but the authors propose and the group proposes to support the bill in the first reading of 9201 – on the assistance of families who cannot have children. I'd like to make up my mind. [[12:56:38]] For 20 Not supported. The bill was rejected. Let us consider the questions. But that doesn't mean, dear colleagues, we have a session to finish, so work in February, look at Belarusian experience, another experience, and contribute to the next session. You have the opportunity to go back to that question. The draft Law amending the Law on Television and Radio Broadcasting on TV is being considered on providing television channels with identification information on the participation of the State and local government authorities in the creation of television broadcasts. [[Registration number 8365]] There's an offer, with a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[12:57:32]] For 222 Supported. National Deputy Denkovich Ivan Vasilovich will report, please. The injection is to be prepared.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-07-m0.u103	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! The purpose of the adoption of the draft Law amending the Law on Television and Radio Broadcasting on TV is to introduce public control over the use of budget funds for the production of television programmes and public needs and their broadcasting, the creation of a mechanism to make it impossible for tax payers to be used for purpose. Because according to the current Ukrainian State Budget 2011 Act, 586 million dollars, 524 thousand dollars are allocated for the production of state-owned radio programmes under code 1701080. And television programs produced for public purposes under code 1701150 provide for an allocation of 105 million 9,000 dollars, which is managed by the State Television and Radio Committee of Ukraine. Costs for these needs are also planned in local budgets. The bill therefore proposes to supplement the Ukrainian Television and Radio Act with a new article 54/1 on State participation and local self-government in television production. As for the series of criticisms expressed in the conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration, I will say. According to part of article 3 of the master code of Ukraine, economic activity is defined as the activity of social manufacturing operators, aimed at producing and implementing products, performing jobs, or providing services of a valuable nature that has a price tag. In this case, there is a process of participation by the State and local authorities, as it is about the distribution and broadcasting of budgetary resources for the production of state - owned television programs. And the implementation of public control by means of the specified funds. So the position of the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority in this aspect, I don't think, has sufficient legal basis. The proposed project, taking into account the situation of articles 2 and 8 of the master code of Ukraine, aims to achieve a goal.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-07-m0.u104	Finish up, Ivan Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-07-m0.u105	Thank you. So I ask everyone to support this bill in this first reading. And all your suggestions and observations will be included in the second reading. Thank you for your attention. Please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-07-m0.u106	Thank you. I can't see the stakes. From the profile committee, please, Landik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-07-m0.u107	Thank you. Dear colleagues! The bill proposes to complement part of the Ukrainian Television and Radio Act with a new article that foresees the introduction of public control over the use of budgetary resources. The ability to identify television broadcasts created by participation, through the State Budget of Ukraine and local budgets, and the creation of a mechanism to prevent the purposeless use of taxpayers' funds. At the same time, the Scientific and Expert Office draws the attention of the drafters to the fact that the formation proposed for the new article is unacceptable to the public authorities. After all, television production is an economic activity. And according to articles 2 and 8 of the master code of Ukraine, the State, government authorities, and local authorities are not subjects of farming. That is why our committee considered the matter. And they decided to reject the bill in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-07-m0.u108	Yeah, we'll talk about it? I'm voting on the author's proposal. Because the committees are "refuse," and the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration doesn't support it. On the adoption of the draft Act amending the Law on Television and Radio Broadcasting to provide television channels with identifiable information on the participation of the State and local government authorities in the creation of television broadcasts. [[Registration number 8365]] I'd like to make a statement. [[13:02:22]] For 20 The bill was rejected. We are considering a draft Act amending the Information Act of Ukraine. [[on bringing the law into line with the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms]] [[Registration number 8201]] There's an offer, with a reduced procedure. Please be supportive. [[13:02:57]] For 206 Supported. Stephen Kurpil has a report, but they don't work today. From the profile committee, please, Vladimir Landik. Ready? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-07-m0.u109	Dear colleagues, they have introduced a bill to amend the Ukrainian Information Act, specifying the list of documents that show the professional independence of journalists, the notion of "evaluation judgement", cases in which journalists are prohibited from collecting information in areas of natural disaster, disaster or other extraordinary events. [[on the introduction of Ukrainian Information Act in accordance with the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms]] [[mass disturbances, armed conflicts, etc.]] The author also proposed changes to article 31 of the Information Act on the basis of compensation for moral damage. The point is that the court can make a decision to compensate for the moral immaterial damage caused to the official by the dissemination of unreliable information only if journalists or the media official are aware of the inadequacy of information and foresee its socially dangerous consequences. The main scientific and expert office in the present conclusion notes that the bill has many substantive and technical shortcomings. The Committee on Freedom of Word and Information at its meeting on 6 April 2011 considered a bill in accordance with the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, introduced by the National Deputy Kurpil, and also decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the results of the first reading review of the bill to return it to the subject of the legislative initiative. [[Registration number 8201 from 03.03.2111]] Please support the position of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-07-m0.u110	Thank you. Are there those who are willing to share in the discussion? You don't? I'm voting on Bill 8201, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Information Act. [[on the introduction of laws in accordance with the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms]] [[Registration number 8201]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:05:55]] Z-11. Not supported. The bill was rejected. We're looking at the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Family Code. [[on raising the minimum age of marriage]] [[Registration number 8588]] There's an offer, with a reduced procedure. [[13:06:28]] For 216 Supported. To report to Tomenko Mikola Volodymyrovich. From the committee, please, Secretary of the Committee, Andrew Naydjonov. The Committee on Family, Youth Policy, Sports, and Tourism
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-07-m0.u111	The honourable chairman, honourable colleagues, of the Committee at its meeting on September 7, 2011, reviewed the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Family Code submitted by the Ukrainian National Deputies Tomenko, Korzem, Soslovým and Bondarenko. [[on raising the minimum age of marriage]] [[Registration number 8588]] The bill proposes to establish the same age of marriage for men and women at the age of 18 and to establish that a court decision may grant the right to marry a person who has reached the age of 16 if it is established that it is in her best interests. The main scientific and expert office believes that the proposal is in line with the final recommendations of the UN Committee on the Rights of the Child, adopted as a result of the third and fourth reports of Ukraine, and supports the adoption of the bill as a basis. The Committee on Family, Youth Policy, Sport, and Tourism decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft law amending the Ukrainian Family Code as a basis and as a whole. [[on raising the minimum age of marriage]]
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-07-m0.u112	Yes, anyone who wants to speak, please sign in. Yes, there is. The question is not simple. Please, Greenewecki will pass it on to Zarubinski and prepare for Kamchatny.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-07-m0.u113	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! So I ask myself, "What's this for?" Obviously, there are positive thoughts, good wishes in Russian. Well, let's think about it. What will make a boy and a girl 17 years old or 16 years old, if that is the case? This will only result in an increase in the number of marriages, so let's say, as they're called, civil marriages, yes, not legitimate marriages, civil marriages, yes, civil marriages. That's really, yeah, because no one in this law or when it's implemented can deny that there was a relationship between 17-year-olds, well, let's just say. Do you understand what I'm saying? In other words, we have a family institution that is still being undermined, so perhaps it is better that a girl, if she wants to marry, could legally do so at 17 years of age rather than have civil marriages. Public. I don't know how to say it. Civil marriages, apparently. Civilians! Thank you. Civil marriages as they exist today and are hardly more than legitimate marriages. I just don't understand why this bill was introduced. To improve your morale? So I think the other way around might be the reverse effect. Consider the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-07-m0.u114	He's stoned.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-07-m0.u115	Please pass the word to your colleague, Zadirko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-07-m0.u116	Asshole, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-07-m0.u117	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Deputies for the Future!".. In fact, the point is that this bill on the harmonization of Ukrainian legislation goes to the requirements of this issue, the United Nations. And if the relevant documents say that a child is considered to be under 18 years of age, it's a woman. It's either a girl or a boy. And when it comes to gender equality, there are today certain provisions of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child, according to which man and child are under the age of 18 and are then considered to be reaching physical, intellectual, mental maturity. Therefore, in view of the foregoing, the MP group "Reforms for the Future!" will support this bill because it will, in fact, harmonise Ukrainian legislation into world norms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-07-m0.u118	Question completed. I am voting on the proposal to adopt a draft law amending the Ukrainian Family Code. [[on raising the minimum age of marriage]] [[Registration number 8588]] [[13:11:53]] For 226 Copy that. We are considering a draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[on the State's guarantees and liability for the return of citizens' savings]] [[Registration numbers 8607, 8607-1]] There's an offer, with a reduced procedure. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:12:33]] For 219 Supported. According to Bill 8607, Andrew Pavlovsky reports. Please prepare Valentine Matthew.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-07-m0.u119	Dear fellow countrymen, distinguished fellow national MPs! This is a very painful social issue: the return and compensation of the lost savings of the USSR. Sadly, recent events indicate that today’s authorities want to ignore or forget this social problem. Because if we look at the budgets of the state in 2010, this, 2011 year, let's look at the draft budget for 2012, we'll see that there's not even a penny to pay off these savings of the lost, even the families of the dead investors. And I wanted to point out to you that most of us are addressed by hundreds of older people who say, "Well, when does Janukovitch finally start paying us back at least?" And I would like to point out that the whole state has paid only 10.6 billion, of which 60 percent has just paid Julia Timoshenko. And now the government, no president, no prime minister, can even pay 50 bucks, and she's already paid six and a half million people this so-called "Julina's Thousand." The Parents' Party proposes to provide at least 1 per cent of the gross domestic product in the State budget to pay these compensations, so that at least 5 billion dollars in the State budget will be paid to the families of the dead and the costs will have to be 50 per cent of privatization and would like to point out that it is not only a question of restoring confidence in the financial system, but also a question of restoring trust in power in general. Janukovic exercised authority as king, so he has the full responsibility for resolving the problem of the loss of savings.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-07-m0.u120	Yes, thank you. And Bill 8607-1, Valentin Matthews.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-07-m0.u121	Dear fellow citizens, surely the problem we are dealing with today is extremely acute and painful for a large part of our countrymen, if not every Ukrainian family. In accordance with article 4 of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on State Guarantees for Restoration of Ukrainian Citizens’ Savings on October 1, 1996, the total amount of the State’s obligation to pay back lost savings to Ukrainian citizens was $131.9 billion as of October 1, 1996. Since 1997, citizens have paid only 10.6 billion dollars, or only 8 percent of the total debt. At the same time, the unbalanced actions of the previous government have caused considerable social tension in society, and you all know that. And the lack of government debt obligations allows Kabin to pay off the State’s debt obligations to its citizens beyond the residual principle and in recent years to completely ignore the expenditure. So, for example, in 2010, out of the 250 million dollars planned in the State budget during the year, no such payments were made. The bill therefore proposes to amend the mechanism for compensating citizens of Ukraine for their lost money savings, particularly in this regard.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-07-m0.u122	Yes, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-07-m0.u123	Thank you. This applies to the inclusion of undervalued savings of citizens in the structure of the national internal debt, to the reference of the article of the Ukrainian Law on State Guarantees for Recovery of Savings, to the sum of 132 billion in government debt, to the provision of compensation exclusively in cash at the expense of the State Budget. And some other suggestions. That is, the purpose of the bill is to provide for relations related to the return to the population of Ukraine of lost funds invested in the Ukrainian Savings facility and the former Ukradzhstrakh, as well as in government securities. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-07-m0.u124	Yes, the profile committee is Dry Jaroslav Mikhailovich, two bills. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-07-m0.u125	Dear colleagues, I'll start with the main conclusion. The Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, the Social Policy and Labour Committee, are supporting the legislative initiative for the social orientation of the two bills. At the same time, we announce what should be known. The draft laws deal with issues related to the spending portion of Ukraine’s State Budget, so it is clear that the decisive position for supporting these bills should be adopted by the State Budget Committee and the position of the Ministry of Finance. That'll be fair. But since I am given the opportunity to speak to the committee on two bills, I will immediately comment on the committee’s decision. First. Involving undervalued citizens' savings into the structure of government domestic debt. First. This is not Ukraine’s domestic government debt. 131 billion were left to us as a descendant on January 1, 1991. We've repeatedly tried to get our government to negotiate with the government of the Russian Federation to determine what money Russia should pay back, what the cost of Ukraine. Let's say that according to the committee hearings, we've figured out that the amount in Ukraine is much smaller, but we need to establish a permanent electronic investor register. Foreseeing a government debt of 131 billion means completely burying the investment attractiveness of the Ukrainian economy. The other one. The cost of compensation is not less than one percent of GDP. Dear colleagues, only the State Budget Act can decide on one, two, three or 10 percent of GDP growth. Third. Savings on privatisation and gold reserves of the National Bank of Ukraine. If anyone discusses this bill, the person who knows what the banking system is should explain that the gold reserve of the Nazbank of Ukraine has a slightly different role and a slightly different meaning in the stability and stability of the national unit is the bracelet. And, fourth. It's a gift.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-07-m0.u126	Finish up, finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-07-m0.u127	Be careful. Advantages for compensation to disabled persons and pensioners Dear colleagues, we have had a decision by the Constitutional Court, and on more than one occasion this issue has been considered, there can be no advantage in compensating savings. And the last. Proposal by the Committee on Social Policy and Labour Only the introduction, implementation of immediate funding and the introduction of an electronic continuous investor register system. [[We've been addressing the government on the committee, turning to the rostrum.]] Then we'll get a clear answer as to how many people they need. Regarding Bill 8,607 of Pavlovsky’s deputies, the Sochka Committee did not take a decision. So the decision, the votes split. With regard to Bill No. 8607, we propose that this bill be sent to the subject of the legislative initiative for further work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-07-m0.u128	Who wants to share in the discussion? Arjewitin, please, and Seminoga.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-07-m0.u129	Dear National Deputies! If we really want to solve this problem and stop the political speculation around this issue, we need to see this problem pragmatically. And we have no other than two ways to do this: the first way is to admit to domestic government debt, I'm going to comment now, and the second way is to allow the Ukrainians themselves to decide the fate of these savings by making them co-owners of Ukraine's Savings. There's no other way. As far as "seeing domestic government debt" is concerned. I'm talking about the basic amount, 130 billion, because if we talk about the devalue index, of course 500-600 billion, we're going to get stuck with this problem and we're never going to solve it. And it can be explained to people that Ukraine did not use these funds, so it is possible to talk about the indexation as opposed to what the state debt would be to stop. As far as government debt is concerned, we have 40 percent today. By law, we have the right to have up to 60 percent. In Europe, domestic debt reaches 80-90 percent of GDP, Japan 120 percent, Greece 149, 119 percent. It is, indeed, always dangerous to collect government debt on the basis of external borrowings. But when we talk about Ukrainians, about 12 million Ukrainians, for them we have to go this way, I'm talking about external debt, I'm stressing once again, the basic amount without indexation. As for any initiative to compensate a group of Ukrainians, we'll never do that, we'll never find social justice in that category, there'll be dozens of different variations. That is why we must avoid this problem. The question was that there was no government investor register. Yes, Your Honor. The savings ended, and 60 million dollars were allocated for this, and so is the list and electronic registers. So I'd like to offer you a basic amount of government debt.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-07-m0.u130	Please, Seminoga.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-07-m0.u131	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, I understand and we all understand that it's not a simple problem, it's not a simple question, but we want to do this or we don't want to do this. Because it's going to be just like we have with the Chernobyls today and with the Afghans, the issue that stands very acute, the Supreme Council hasn't solved for many years, and that leads to social tension. On this point, I would like to point out that the government debt is actually fixed, it's fixed on October 1, 1996, it's worth 131.9 billion dollars. Once again, the adopted law, which obliges our nation to pay progressively compensation to our citizens from 1997 onward, but again in these years only 8 percent of these savings have been returned to the Ukrainians. I am convinced that there is no mechanism other than the actual recognition of Ukraine's domestic debt to our citizens. This is already a problem for the state, how its foreign policy, when it comes to Russia, can be compensated for these losses, but our citizens have to receive these costs. And the economic mechanisms, in my opinion, have to be worked out, they can be completely different. Today, hundreds of our voters are making requests for utilities or other payments, including lost savings. Unfortunately, this mechanism does not work. I would like to remind you that in 2010 only 250 million were allocated to the state budget, and these funds did not go exactly where they were assigned. So once again, I refer to our colleagues: first, to support both bills and to look for mechanisms to pay back to our citizens the costs that have been lost in the reform of the Savings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-07-m0.u132	Thank you. Question completed. I am voting on the adoption of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on guarantees and the responsibility of the State for the return of citizens' savings. [[Registration number 8607]] The author of the bill is Pavlovski and Sochka. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:26:43]] For-34 Not supported. Factions: The Party of Regions 2 did not vote. 0, "Our Ukraine" – 1, communists – 25, "reforms" – 1, National Party – zero, non-fractional – 5. The bill was rejected. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[on the State's guarantees and liability for the return of citizens' savings]] [[Registration number 8607]] The authors of the bill: Simonenko, Matthew, Cibenko Please be supportive. [[13:27:34]] For-32 Not supported. Bill 8607 suggests that the committee return the subject to the right of legislative initiative for further work. I'll put this motion to a vote, return to processing. Please vote. [[13:28:05]] For 261 Bill 8607-1 is being submitted for further development. We are considering the draft Law on a system of guaranteeing the contributions of natural persons. [[Registration number 9342]] There's an offer, with a reduced procedure. [[13:28:38]] For 228 Supported. The bill was also drafted by the committee, the head of the committee, Homutinnik Vitaly. Please, four minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-07-m0.u133	Thank you. Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! The need for the adoption of a draft Ukrainian Act on the system of guaranteeing the contributions of natural persons and reforming the system of guaranteeing contributions in Ukraine is called for, above all, the need to increase the effectiveness of the country's financial security system through functional balancing and effective interaction between the activities of individual elements, namely the regulatory and supervisory systems, the system of guaranteeing the contributions of natural persons and the system of refinancing by the creditor of the last establishment. To date, the deposit guarantee fund of natural persons only acts as a payout, which at the final stage is calculated with depositors for the liabilities of banks that are being liquidated and deposits that are not available. The Trust Guarantee Fund does not have any influence and mechanisms to optimize its potential costs and to ensure a higher level of protection of the interests of liquid banks. In turn, a large number of troubled banks have increased the workload on the relevant branches of the Banking Authority of the National Bank of Ukraine. In addition, the implementation of the insolvency procedure does not fully correspond to the tasks of the National Bank of Ukraine as the classic regulator of the banking system. Thus, the bill proposes to divide the authorization between the National Bank and the Deposit Guarantee Fund. And actually working with troubled, so to speak, and insolvent banks to transfer to the supervision of a fund to guarantee the contributions of individuals. It's the kind of fund that's going to have in the future if these problems turn into, let's say, the kind of severe problems that have been, including 2008-2009. And we witnessed how the banking system, which had lost the banking system, and how much pressure it had on the deposit guarantee fund. That's why this fund should be empowered to have an impact on these banks' problems. And to ensure that the resources are available, the corresponding calculations that are set out in the bill, which should be used to form this fund. Improving the deposit guarantee scheme will increase the overall confidence of the population in Ukraine's banking system, which is a key prerequisite for mobilizing the necessary long-term resources to ensure sustained economic development. In addition, the adoption of the bill is subject to Ukraine’s international commitments, according to the project system, to the second financial sector rehabilitation programme, and should ensure the efficiency, operationality and transparency of the financial recovery of troubled banks and the procedures for the withdrawal of hopeless banks from the market, using best world practice and experience. Before this bill, experts from the National Bank of Ukraine, experts from the Ministry of Finance and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine were added to the committee in drafting the bill. Meetings with international financial organizations were also held to introduce world experiences and practices into the body of the bill. So, as author and committee, I recommend that we adopt the bill in the first reading and on the basis of the bill. And work for the second reading, creating a job.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-07-m0.u134	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-07-m0.u135	For the second reading, create a work group from representatives of the National Bank, the Cabinet of Ministers, the Committee of Profiles, and interested persons. And maybe this year we're going to adopt this bill as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-07-m0.u136	Thank you. Arjewitin thinks otherwise. Besides Argentina, do others insist? Zarubinsky. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-07-m0.u137	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich! I'm just like my speaking partner, I think. Because I am also a co-author of this bill. And by the way, back in March 2008, I was registered, I registered a bill that is still on the base. And 80 percent of it was written in this new version. As for the transfer of the deposit guarantee fund from the payout, actually to a part of the National Bank, i.e. the transfer of the liquidation function of the already troubled, insolvent bank, that's the main idea of the bill. And that's really what we need to do. Because today, if compensation is paid up to $100,000 in many countries in Europe, we have 150 if in countries in seven days the Guarantee Fund is obliged to pay off any deposit liability bank. We've got 26 months, like with the Nadra Bank. If in other countries of the world the total deposit is up to 80 percent of all deposits, we have 3 to 5 percent, or 200 billion deposits, we have 5 to 6 billion in the Population Deposit Guarantee Fund and so on. So we have to really reform. But I wouldn't rush to the second reading. Why? Because we've now withdrawn the Guarantee Fund from the state guarantee fund. I think maybe it's a premature norm. The other one. We've removed from the Guarantee Fund the absolute amount that we've established by law, 150,000 dollars. Now we have the right to guarantee the Fund's normative acts. When he has 4 billion by 200 billion, you can imagine how much he can write down. Next. In many countries all financial institutions involving deposits, including credit unions, are paid. We only have banks. I think we should think about that. And the transfer of functions from the National Bank to the Guarantee Fund is not a day's work. So I suggest we support him in the first reading. But do not rush into second reading and have serious discussions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-07-m0.u138	Yes, please, Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-07-m0.u139	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! One can agree with the author’s argument or subject of the legislative initiative that effective work of the fund is an important factor in strengthening investor and other creditors’ confidence in the banking system. Obviously, so it is. But I read the conclusion of the science department, and I couldn't find an answer for a few comments myself to correct those remarks. Maybe the initiator can do that? Like what? The point is that the project proposes to create an independent financial institution. In fact, yes. This fund becomes an independent financial institution. On the other hand, there's the Ukrainian National Bank Act. Some chapters, I don't call them, are the Ukrainian Banking and Banking Act. To date, these functions are placed only on the National Bank of Ukraine. One. One second. Part of the authority, according to counterpart Arzwethyn, the National is transferred to the fund, then the ability to perform its functions as the main bank of the country or not is also a question. Apparently, it's going down in some ways. And the third moment. In fact, the project proposes to grant the fund the right to lend, to grant reverse or irreversible financial assistance to the receiving bank and to issue guarantees as described. How does this relate to the existing Law on Financial Services and Government Regulation of Financial Services Markets, how? Because the content of this fund does not belong to financial institutions that have the right to provide adequate financial services. These may be segmental questions, but I think they need to be answered, because without their resolution or without their confirmation or denial, or an explanation in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-07-m0.u140	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-07-m0.u141	In general, it is obvious that today cannot vote in favour of this bill, but it needs its work, although it is likely to be accepted on the basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-07-m0.u142	Question completed. I'm putting the motion to a vote, although the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority has made a significant observation, it considers it unacceptable, to adopt in the first reading of the bill, the draft Law on the Insurance of the Investments of Individuals. [[Registration number 9142]] Let's support in the first reading by taking into account what's being observed in the second. Please vote. [[13:38:37]] For 257 Copy that. And I'm asking the profile committee and the authors to prepare for the second reading to look closely at the substantive and just comments that are from the Chief Scientific Administration. I'm listening to a question: a draft law amending the Ukrainian Tax Code. [[on certain matters relating to the payment of taxes under the terms of the distribution agreement]] [[Registration number 9358]] There's a proposal for a reduced procedure. Please be supportive. [[13:39:22]] For 223 Supported. Karakai will report. Get ready, Homutinik. And I'm continuing the session for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-07-m0.u143	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! All the years of independence of our nation, we, the state, decide on the issue of creating strategic reserves of useful fossils that are necessary, especially those of hydrocarbons, to smooth the peaks of rising oil and gas prices or of some crisis that, naturally, may arise in the state. Regrettably, this issue has not been resolved because it takes a large amount of money, which unfortunately cannot be allocated to the state budget in full. This law suggests that under the terms of the distribution agreements, the State may require an investor who works under a distribution agreement to pay taxes for a period of six months if I emphasize that it is necessary for the State, not money, but for that raw material, to have oil or the same gas. Please support and, bearing in mind that these changes touch on the changes in the Tax Code, and we are already finishing this calendar year, please support the preparation for the second reading of this law by a reduced procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-07-m0.u144	Thank you. Vitaly Hometic from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-07-m0.u145	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! The committee considered the bill of our colleague Yuri Vasilovich Karakaya 9358 on changes to the Tax Code on Taxpaying in the terms of the contract on distribution of products, let's say in a natural way. The committee and I personally have. It is not that the remark is generally doubtful about the need to adopt such bills, which provide that the payment of taxes or obligations to the State can be paid both in cash and in natural form. When it comes to oil and gas, I don't see any problem selling these resources that are always liquidated and providing money for the budget. If we are talking about other activities, we have not heard the argument that such an action may exist. But the authors are convincing, and there is the support of the Ministry of Economic Development for this bill, and perhaps you could agree to the adoption in the first reading of this bill, but the second reading is carefully looked at in general by the need for such form and purpose, and it is possible to correct the bill in order to meet both the public interest in paying taxes and the interests of investors that these distribution agreements have from the State. Therefore, the recommendation is to accept as a basis and work very carefully with this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-07-m0.u146	Thank you. [[B in m in s a l in]] Vote. In fact, there is something that needs to be corrected before the second reading, but let's take it in the first, so that the profile committee, together with the authors, the points that raise doubts are taken into account. I would like to vote on the draft Act amending the Code of Taxation of Ukraine. [[on certain matters relating to the payment of taxes under the terms of the distribution agreement]] [[Registration number 9358]] Please vote. [[13:44:10]] For 238. Copy that. There is a proposal to shorten the preparation for second reading for the next plenary week. Please vote. [[13:44:35]] For 236 Supported. We are considering: the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[on specific issues relating to the activities of the National Bank of Ukraine]] [[Registration number 9440]] There's an offer, with a reduced procedure. [[13:45:01]] For 231 Supported. Report by Yuri Vasilovich Karakai. Get ready, Homutinik.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-07-m0.u147	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues, surely we all know the important role played by the National Bank in the ongoing development of the economy of our nation and the stability of the national currency. The bill is aimed at improving the mechanisms of the National Bank and foresees the improvement of the following issues: mechanisms for the replenishment and use of the State's gold reserves; issues for the participation of representatives of the National Bank of Ukraine in the governing bodies of legal persons with a share of state ownership; procedures for ensuring the transfer and protection of the values and assets of the National Bank; and the order of the activities of the Bank's monetary court, the bank paper factory and the state treasury. It is also proposed to expand the capacity of the NBA to inform the public about financial policy, monetary policy, and the results of its activities. Considering that, once again, by the end of the current calendar year, very little time has been left, there is a request to vote on the accelerated procedure for preparing the bill for the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-07-m0.u148	Vitaly Hometic, please. The thought of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-07-m0.u149	Dear colleagues, dear Adam Ivanovich! The draft Law 9440, on specific issues of the activities of the National Bank of Ukraine, was discussed at a committee meeting. The substance of the bill was the author. has been explained. But in addition, I would like to add that I am prepared to improve legislation and create the right legal conditions for the National Bank of Ukraine to perform its functions. In particular, it is proposed that the following powers be given to the National Bank: to grant the National Bank the right to carry out activities related to intelligence, mining, the production of precious metals, and also to create legal conditions for the first-time redemption by the National Bank of Ukraine for precious metals. These legislative initiatives will allow the National Bank to increase its gold stock at the expense of its own gold production that can be obtained in Ukraine. The bill also creates legal conditions to ensure the efficiency of the banking court, the bank paper factory and the State Treasury of Ukraine, which are the structural units of the National Bank. Additional information mechanisms are also envisaged by the National Bank of Ukraine on its activities, including the publication by the National Bank of Ukraine of relevant information on its official website. The bill also included comments from a profile committee. I'm not going to count them, given that I don't have enough time, but all of these comments we can decide to do before we get to the second reading. Therefore, the committee's recommendation is to adopt the bill as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-07-m0.u150	Yes, other than Arjevitin, no one insists? Please, Arjovitin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-07-m0.u151	Dear people's deputies, well, it's funny, I wouldn't want to offend the authors of this bill. Well, you've noticed, the National Bank and I are making a commercial office that does the incassation, and that's 30 percent of the staff in the countryside, and now we're going to be doing the commercial activity, the gold mining, the search, the mining. It's still a large part of the people who are going to be in the National Bank. The next bill we're going to accept is that they, these people, are going to be the kidnappers of the National Bank that they are. They should not be taxed, that is, they should be taxed on them. I don't think it's a central bank function. Please read the functions of the central bank in other countries. And we get really, really funny. Well, what's the gold production if we have organizations that do this? Please buy them gold. That's the first one. Secondly, none of the reporters said that the National Bank now wants it to use the Police Act, which is to use weapons as it is used by the militia. Well, why would the National Bank launch demonstrations at the National Bank walls with investors, conduct investigations into militia, I don't know, excitement. Well, why arm the National Bank? Incarceration is yesterday's central bank day at all. The central bank has to get rid of this function. The National Bank Board has not been in session for four years to develop Ukraine’s monetary credit policy, at the same time. Now at the National Bank, they're going to be doing it in accordance with the Police Act, these functions, now they're going to be digging and digging for gold. I think, honourable national MPs, let's not make the central bank like this from the office, but to make a classic tool that under the Constitution has the main function: the stability of our monetary unit. This is the main function that he has to perform. Now the gold reserves we're spending on the current problems in the central bank. It doesn't have to be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-07-m0.u152	Karskov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-07-m0.u153	Adam Ivanovich, Vladimir Matthews and I voted against the committee. However, now, well, in principle, we have now spoken to the committee members, and provided that we complete and remove from the second reading what Mr. Arzhvitin has said, that is, we will not create an army at the National Bank today as Gazprom. And secondly, let's remove the mediator, because some members of the Party of the Regions have not seen that if this is the function that Azarov is introducing today in order to change the dollar paper under the pillows of citizens for gold mining, that is, on a large scale, this new Chavez appears to us instead of Arbosov, we agree. But there's a mediator to be removed, because the procedure is being introduced, the return is not prescribed, between the National Bank and those who are getting gold, like, we know how famous layings are. Therefore, if this is removed from second reading, we are assured by the leadership of the Party of the Regions, and we are now ready to support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-07-m0.u154	Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. I'm a small specialist in banking, but I think gold is a product that should belong to an institution like the National Bank. If the National Bank, rather than any other structure, will obtain the jewels, it will benefit only the state. So what I'm saying is it's probably right here for the National Bank to do the mining of precious metals, but without intermediaries. I'm putting a motion to the vote, please support the adoption of the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine in the first reading. [[on specific issues of Nazbank's activities in Ukraine]] [[Registration number 9440]] Please vote. [[13:52:57]] For 264 Copy that. Short-term preparation, please vote. [[13:53:17]] For 254 Copy that. We are considering the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Tax Code. [[on the taxation of transactions involving precious metals by the National Bank of Ukraine]] [[Registration number 9441]] There's a proposal for a reduced procedure. [[13:53:52]] For 221 Supported. Please, Karakai and Homutinnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-07-m0.u155	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! The purpose of the bill is to create the right conditions to increase the gold stock of the state treasury, it is partly derived from the previous bill that we have just voted on and serves as a means to create the right conditions for increasing the gold stock. We are well aware that in the face of the instability of the world’s financial system, no currency in the world is immune to the possibility of falling or speculative attacks on itself. And the world's scientific thinking has come up with nothing better than to use national currency support and protection, gold reserves, and this is what the bill is about. It foresees the creation of favourable tax conditions for transactions aimed at replenishing the National Bank’s gold reserves in the state and stimulating the circulation of debt liabilities issued by the National Bank. Considering that, once again, changes touch the Tax Code, and by the end of the calendar year, there were practically three weeks left, a request to consider the matter with an accelerated procedure and to prepare it for the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-07-m0.u156	Thank you. Please, Vitaly Hometic.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-07-m0.u157	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! This bill, which deals with changes to the Tax Code, is directly related to the previous bill that we first gave the National Bank the right to own gold. The bill proposes to amend the Tax Code, where the initiative to exempt taxation from the added cost of services related to exploration, production, production and use of precious metals, that is, the National Bank for All This Work, relies on the State in fact. As a compensator for the loss of the budget from tax cuts, the bill proposes to introduce taxation on the added value of foreign coins made from precious metals. The bill also proposes exemption from taxation on the income of natural persons from the sale of precious metals to the National Bank, as well as exemption from VAT tax on transactions in the supply of precious metals to the National Bank. That is, such changes are proposed in addition to the previous 9440 bill, to be adopted as a basis. For the second reading, we're going to do a job with the Ministry of Finance on the loss of the budget and there's really going to be enough revenue that's going to be offered to stop the loss of the budget. And for the second reading, we will come to a final conclusion as to the relevance of all the positions proposed by the authors. Thank you for your attention. Also, if you accept it, by a reduced procedure, to be similar to the previous one.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-07-m0.u158	And Argewitten thinks otherwise, there's gold on Zakarpat, and he's against it. Yeah? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-07-m0.u159	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm not saying because I'm as harmful as they say, what they're saying right now about the gold reserves is all right. Read the text, what is it? This is about business organizations that are going to provide services to the National Bank, getting rid of it. Here's the first position. Today, the interest that the Ukrainian receives from the securities he received by buying from the Ministry of Finance is right for the attractiveness. Now the National Bank sells its securities and does not say that my securities will not tax the interest you receive. It's not a percentage, it's an operation, it's a business, it's a whole other thing. And it seems that this is about the country's gold reserves. Next. All the organizations in Ukraine that are going to set up the National Bank of Stock Exchanges, they're not taxing them right now. You realize that these are not fair and unfair rules of competition in the market, including with regard to pawnbrokers, other organizations. It's not gold reserves, it's a competitive position of the National Bank as a business establishment in this market. That's not fair. Next. It's about taxing the National Bank. Actually, the word "tax" in the National Bank is not used. He doesn't have taxes, he has income. I mean, more loyally, over-expenditure is not a profit. So it's just not right to use it. Let it be, but now all those abroad who carry these precious metals to the National Bank are exempt from taxation. Just like we had "partnership for peace," these war organizations that imported. This article introduced this rule that all who import outside of Ukraine would not now be taxed. And they will not be taxed by organizations that provide services to the National Bank. Can you imagine the word "service," how can you view taxation? Do you have any idea how many corrupt mechanisms can be set up here? Still, by comparison.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-07-m0.u160	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-07-m0.u161	Similarly, I said that the National Bank was being released where it would dig gold. I think there are other things behind this. I don't support such legislative initiatives.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-07-m0.u162	I am voting on the proposal to adopt the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code as the basis for the first reading. [[on the taxation of transactions involving precious metals by Nazbank of Ukraine]] [[Registration number 9441]] Please vote. [[14:00:40]] For 266 It's all going according to plan. Supported. Short-term procedure, please support. [[14:01:01]] For 238. Supported. Yes, dear fellows, don't relax. There's a draft decree marking the 110th anniversary of the birth of the Hero of the Soviet Union of Vatutin Mikoli Fedorovich. [[Registration number 9200]] December 16 is 110 years old from the birth of the hero who is next to us. And I propose to support the bill tabled by colleagues Simonenko, Zibenk, Alexandrovsk, Dove and KARIKOV, taking into account the position of the profile committee. Yavorowski asks that in article 3 of the term "organize" the display of thematic TV and radio broadcasts, we replace it with "organize thematic TV and radio broadcasts" which means it will be, I think, better. With this proposal, I would like to vote in favour of the 110th anniversary resolution of the birthday of the Hero of the Soviet Union, Vatutina Mikoli Fedorovich. [[Registration number 9200]] Please vote. [[14:02:20]] For 259. Supported. We're looking at a draft decree marking the 500th anniversary of the founding of the city of Chigirin in Cherkas region. [[Registration number 9305]] The author of the legislative initiative is Tomenko Mikola Volodymyrovich. There is a proposal to support this decision and mark, as it should be, the 500th anniversary of the solstice of the famous city of Chigirin in the Cherkas region. Please vote. [[14:03:09]] For 259. And, dear colleagues, I would ask in connection with what ends and does not just end, but we have large and very substantial debts, including on wages. We've included you in the agenda for amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2011. [[Registration number 9531]] I would ask that we now consider this bill, because it needs to be signed, we need to hold sessions of local councils. So that the more than 2 billion dollars that the Cabinet of Ministers is targeting to the local authorities, we can use. Because today it's already seven. There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. Please be supportive. [[14:04:15]] For 237 Please, Rybak Sergey Alexanderovich, quickly. And Baran's getting ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-07-m0.u163	Thank you. Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! The bill increases the costs of local budgets. These are all social expenses, budget fees, bill payments, help families with children, and low - income families. This is also a debt on the basis of tax transportation. The total amount of income we've found that we've been able to increase further is a billion 300 million bracelets. They're all going to be focused on these social benefits. We also provide additional grants to local budgets. At the end of the year an additional volume was analysed and it will be fully covered by the law. Therefore, honourable national deputies, please support him as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-07-m0.u164	Thank you, Sergey Alexanderovich. Baranov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-07-m0.u165	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Deputies! The committee considered the bill and supported it. I'm not going to talk about his essence. He's balanced. It's supported by scientific expertise. At the same time, the proposal for an additional grant to offset the financial security of the Kiev budget of 270 million on the basis of the redistribution of individual government budgets is supported during the consideration of this issue. So from the committee, I propose that this law be passed in general, with a proposal for Kiev. And let this be our gift to the local self-government of a professional holiday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-07-m0.u166	Thank you. Dear colleagues! In fact, we'll make a good gift by supporting the bill as a whole with the conclusions of the budget committee. I am voting on the adoption of the Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget of Ukraine. [[on increasing social expenditure]] Please be supportive. [[2:06:49]] For 268. Supported. Thank you. And one last question. We need to ratify the draft Law on the Ratification of the Free Trade Agreement between Ukraine and the EUVT States, the Agreement on Agriculture between Ukraine and the Kingdom of Norway, the Agreement on Agriculture between Ukraine and Iceland and the Agreement on Agriculture between Ukraine and the Swiss Confederation. [[Registration number 0229]] There's a proposal for a reduced procedure. [[14:07:35]] For 233 Thank you. Bandurov Vladimir Volodymyrovich, please, within 1 minute. And that's the same thing.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-07-m0.u167	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! The bill provides for the ratification of the Free Trade Agreement between Ukraine and the States of the European Free Trade Association, the Agreement on Agriculture between Ukraine and the Kingdom of Norway, the Agreement on Agriculture between Ukraine and Iceland, the Agreement on Agriculture between Ukraine and the Swiss Confederation, which took place on 24 June 2010 in the city of Reykjavik. Agreements aimed at creating an enabling environment for enhancing trade and economic co-operation between the participating States. The ratification of the agreements noted by the Supreme Council can contribute to strengthening Ukraine’s external economic ties, enhancing the effectiveness of the national economy and its integration into the world economy. As a result of the introduction of the regime of free trade between Ukraine and the States of the EUVT, the forecast period covering 2012-2015 is expected to increase the revenues of Ukraine's State budget from 1.5 in 2012 to 16.5 million dollars in 2015. The implementation of the proposed law does not require additional costs from the State Budget. Considering the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-07-m0.u168	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-07-m0.u169	aimed at strengthening Ukraine's external economic ties, accelerating the effectiveness of the national economy, please accept it as a basis and as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-07-m0.u170	Thank you. Please, from the committee, Chernobyl.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-07-m0.u171	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished fellow national MPs, under the curtain. The deal is convenient for Ukraine, as has already been said. The government predicts that since we do not cross import-export with these countries, the benefits will be mutual for Ukraine in this case. The government predicts 16 billion by 2015, maybe a little bit optimistic, but in principle, realistically realistic. This Agreement has the only question that has arisen in many why four documents are ratified by one ratification. The thing is, according to the EUVT, the free trade zone and the EUVT, which we are very comfortable with, is the need for a simultaneous document. In fact, this can be likened to cases where add-ons to a document are used in ratification laws. These are separate laws with individual countries, but they are completely united. They can't be ratified separately. The benefits of the day are ours. It's legal to consider all of this. All the committees were co-sponsored, our committee unanimously voted in favour. Let's ask the hall to ratify. Thank you for your attention. I bet.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-07-m0.u172	Thank you. Are there no other thoughts? I am voting to adopt the Law on the Ratification of the Free Trade Agreement between Ukraine and the States of the EATT, the Agreement on Agriculture between Ukraine and the Kingdom of Norway, the Agreement on Agriculture between Ukraine and Iceland and the Agreement on Agriculture between Ukraine and the Swiss Confederation. [[Registration number 0229]] Please vote. [[14:10:55]] For 263 Thank you. Dear colleagues, thank you very much for your productive work. All we had to accept was that we accepted and even reformed the plan. The morning meeting of the Supreme Council is closed. Tomorrow we start working 10 hours.
