ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:01:42]] The 392 national deputies registered in the session hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will be open. Ladies and gentlemen, today is the birthday of our colleague of Adventure Anton Vicentiovich. Please welcome Anton Vicentiovich, and wish him health and success. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, I give you information on the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the plenary on March 18, 2011. Eighteen issues of the agenda have been considered. As a result of their consideration of 15 bills and 5 draft regulations, they were rejected. Ladies and gentlemen, I offer your attention to the announcement. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law "On the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine", articles 59 and 60 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules and in accordance with personal claims submitted, I report the entry of the National Deputies of Ukraine of Bagraev Mikli Georgievic and Pavelek Viktor Viktorovich into the Party of the Regions. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention on more information and appropriate response, please, national deputies and faction leaders. On 21-22 March 2011, the Supreme Council of Ukraine will hold the fourth meeting of the Inter-Parliamentary Assembly of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Seima of the Republic of Lithuania and the Seima and the Senate of the Republic of Poland, with the participation of Seima Yagutena and the Marshal of the Senate of Borusevich. I ask the people's deputies, the members of the Ukrainian part of the Assembly – I call only the names of Belarus, Bodnar, Bondarenko Olenu, Gorin, Najdionova, Sváša, Dryo, Tarasyuk, Shevchuk to participate in the Assembly meeting. Why does this have to be emphasized? Dear colleagues, the appeal of the Apparatus to the National Deputies has yielded such results that some of the deputies have stated that they have other plans, and they will not be able to participate in the Assembly. I'd like to ask the faction leaders to postpone all my plans and fulfill my assignment to participate in the Assembly meeting. Dear National Deputies! In accordance with the Rules, two factions call for a 30 - minute recess to be held for day - to - day consultations. And the factions are these. The "BUT" faction, "Fatherland", "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense", agreed to make a statement on what they called for a break. John Grigorovich Kirilenko has the floor. Please, Ivan Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u2	Dear fellow countrymen, dear colleagues! On Tuesday, the walls of our parliament, which is now called the last bastion of democracy, were bitter and bitter for the parliamentary family. As always, there was a traditional press conference on the media field at lunchtime. According to the "son" tradition, channel owners decide what words to cut out and who to show. But the Council has not yet divided the MPs into whites and blacks. On March 14 this happened. On the air of our television channel, press conferences were shown to all MPs, except for Andrey Pavlovski, who was officially given the floor by Mikola Tomenko. At the will of the Chamber of Deputies, each word was cut out to the letter and to the coma. What, then, did our colleague say? Did you call against State sovereignty? Oh, no. Against Ukraine’s integrity? No, I'm not. In his speech, there were simple, simple, but very embarrassing things. Despite the baroque assurances of stability, peace, serenity, seduction of everyone, everything and everything, the shocking rise in food prices continues, the fuel continues, the gas, the electricity, the water, the heat, the square meters, the medicine and the transport -- and it never stops. Everyone knows that, and certainly no one believes that prices have increased by just a few unfortunate percentages, but when experts calculated the real price increase in life, it turned out to be staggering. Prices have risen by 42 percent and continue to rise. This was the first time and the same was the first time a requirement was made to enforce the law, which, of course, automatically requires indexation, i.e. increase, and essentially, wages, pensions, scholarships and all social benefits. I mean, Your Honor, you have to admit that prices have grown, not funny, that life has not gotten better and not more fun, but hurt. And the most disturbing problem of social protection for people is to be addressed, and it is urgent. Since you have been in absolute power for more than a year now, you continue to translate everything into predecessors, destroying them by throwing them into prison, people are not getting any easier, since this has long been your question. Do you need help writing the right laws? We wrote them and we brought them in. Including the wage and pension index. Let us immediately put them in place, consider, and decide. Isn't that what you've been doing just recently when you've become a wall to rise to almost twice the standard of living in the most terrifying crisis country in 2009? Well, where is it? There's no more crisis today. There's been an increase in the number of billionaires, and the budget is being revised, and the Shrimp is being sold for nothing. So let's let people get away with something. But make up your mind. You can make fun of what we're saying. We're used to it. But think about it. Yesterday a high - ranking official published the figures on one of the committees. In recent times, small crime in Ukraine has nearly doubled. Thousands of people have gone to rob funerals, barns, and herbs of despair.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u3	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u4	What's going to happen tomorrow? Are you going to say again that the daughter-in-law is guilty? Or maybe you'd better get your hands on it. Do not hesitate to answer. It's not us, it's people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u5	I ask the secretariat to respond accordingly to the presentation and suggestions made by John Grigorovovich Kirilenko. Dear National Deputies! Let us now consider the issues set out in the March 17 calendar. I'm announcing a draft decree on the introduction of the registration of Ukrainian national deputies and the identification of the results of their personal balloting by means of a sensory key. Dear National Deputies! On Tuesday, you and I included in the agenda a draft decision, and we're having a long debate on this, how would you like to make such a proposal that I put the project to the vote right away? Dear colleagues! There's no problem if we have to talk or make a decision, let's talk, and then when we talk, I think it's hard to make decisions, because everyone's going to demand something of their own. Let's look at it. I'm putting to the vote the proposal to consider this issue under a reduced procedure. Please vote. [["10:09:46."]] For 109 The decision is not taken. So, dear colleagues, we're going to consider this issue, we're going to surprise the entire Ukrainian people once again by the full procedure, we're going to do nothing. Please. We don't get it. I'm reminding you again, I've proposed a draft decree for the registration of Ukrainian national MPs and the determination of the results of their personal balloting by means of a sensory key, to be considered in this order. I would suggest that we put the matter to a vote without discussion. Who's in favour of considering the issue of a reduced procedure, please vote. [[10:10:51]] For 242 Decision taken. Dear colleagues! I'd like that.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u6	The factions? Please: the faction of the Party of the Regions – 169, "BUT – "The Fatherland" – 0, "Our Ukraine – The People's Self-Defense" – 2, the Communists – 24, "Reforms for the Future" – 18, "The People's Party – 20, non-fractional – 9. And, dear fellows, I ask you once again, let's not do politics here. If we want to make a decision, let's make a decision. If we don't want to make a decision, let's scream. And I see that there is no desire to make a decision. Please, calm down, calm down! Go to work more often. Dear National Deputies, your humble servant, co-reporter, is the head of the Committee on Rules, Deputy Ethics and Security of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Vladimir Volodymyrovich. Dear people's deputies, I'm brief. The story of this question is that you all know that in 2008 the Council-3 system was upgraded and a sensory button was put in place so that directly the MP could vote for himself. At the same time, this system was not put into operation, and a positive decision was not made at the committee’s meeting at the time. Today, however, there is an increase in society’s negative attitude toward the Supreme Council of Ukraine when people see that one MP exercises authority over several national deputies during the vote. In view of the fact that, in accordance with the current Constitution of 1996, the Head of the Supreme Council only holds a meeting of the Supreme Council and has the position that was in the Constitution, which entered into force in 2006, that the Head of the Supreme Council organizes the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, only the Supreme Council of Ukraine can decide on the introduction of this system. I made the corresponding draft of the ruling. This project was included in the agenda on Tuesday. The committee has considered, and I would ask, honourable colleagues, to support this project and to make the appropriate decision, and to stop talking, and to ensure the implementation or implementation of the constitutional provision, article 84 of the Constitution of Ukraine, that each MP votes in person, i.e. personally. The report was completed. Please, the head of the Committee of MacKeenko Vladimir Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u7	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! At the meeting of the Committee on 16 March this year, a draft regulation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the introduction of the registration of Ukrainian National Deputies and the determination of the results of their personal balloting by means of a sensory key introduced by the National Deputy of Ukraine, President of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Litvin Volodymyr Mihajlovich, was considered at the meeting of the Committee at 8218. The draft decision is proposed to introduce in the Supreme Council of Ukraine a modernised electronic voice system with cards, which provides for the registration and voting of the Ukrainian national deputy at meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine using a sensory key. In general, in support of the idea of organising the personal voting of Ukrainian national deputies, the Committee has repeatedly called attention to the fact that, in accordance with the provisions of part four of article 82 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the working order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is established by the Constitution of Ukraine and the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And there is no provision for the establishment of an order of activities of the Supreme Council by other acts, in this case a decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Therefore, according to the Committee, any changes in the procedure for the registration of Ukrainian national deputies, their vote in plenary meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine may only be considered in the context of changes to the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In the case of the implementation of this modernized electronic system, changes should be proposed, particularly in the first part of article 17 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules on the Use of the Electronic System and supplemented by new sentences that would provide that the order of use of the electronic system is determined by a decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The committee reached a conclusion on the draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that the draft decision should be adopted on a basis that takes into account the Committee's observations, according to which it was modernised.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u8	Finish up, please. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u9	According to which a modern electronic system can be implemented only if appropriate changes to the Supreme Council of Ukraine regulations and approval of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's position on such a system are made. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u10	Dear colleagues! Please sign up for the discussion. May I have the names of the people's deputies on the board? Arsenius Yatsenuk, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense" faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u11	Not for the first time in this House of Parliament is the issue of providing for the Supreme Council of Ukraine and parliamentary deputies to comply with the requirements of the Constitution. What is the rule of law if the deputies of the Supreme Council of Ukraine violate the Constitution of Ukraine daily? Each law that adopts a valid parliament is unconstitutional, and the ballots for national deputies have become credit cards when they hand over packages to each other to vote in favour of the law. In view of this, the President of Ukraine is obliged to promise every bill as one that has been adopted in violation of the Constitution. As for this sensor button. This button was introduced by me as Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in 2008. A certification procedure has been completed, and all technical regulations have been followed. This button was introduced by the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine. I have repeatedly addressed both Parliament and the Regulatory Committee with the request to turn it on. I'd like to point out that in order to turn this button on, you don't need a decision from the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Here is a reference from the legislative database that the Supreme Council of Ukraine has never voted for the installation of this system. Each time, such a system was activated by the authority of the Supreme Council and the Supreme Council of Ukraine. It was both for the old Constitution and for the new one. It's a good thing that this question is raised right now, but I see that they only want to vote on the first reading and talk. You don't have to vote. Mr. Head, give an order to the apparatus: turn the system on, and in 30 seconds, the Constitution will finally be implemented in the Ukrainian Parliament. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u12	Thank you, too. Andrew Pavlovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u13	Andrew Pavlovsky, "Fatherland." And in view of the fact that my performances are being cut out of the Council Channel, please pass on the word to Mikola Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u14	Dear colleagues, I am in solidarity with Andrey Pavlovsky in part so that we do not have censorship. And I want to say that, in my opinion, voting in the session room is important, because it should be clear and clear to show which factions and groups that are specifically interested in bringing Ukrainian parliamentaryism back to life. Because Ukrainian parliamentary is possible when there is a parliamentarian, not a party, a faction, or group. Each national MP must act and take personal responsibility for each vote, for each expression, and for each action in his constituency. So today's move, and the opposition, and especially the faction of the Fatherland party, is to vote, definitely "yes" for this decision, should demonstrate that we have a desire to restore respect to the Ukrainian Parliament. We have national deputies, I won't, 20, 30, 40 of whom we haven't seen alive in years. We have national MPs who publicly say that they despise Parliament, this sessional room, and their parliamentary work. True, they do not despise it; it is due to the helpers that they receive their wages, they do not despise the certificates to show when they are stopped. It would be more honest for those who have never appeared here, or for holidays to appear, to give up their parliamentary mandates. And even more honestly, we had to take the next step and report on the removal of inviolability from the President, the judges and the people's deputies, so that the parliamentary mandate would not be a pass to lawlessness. Even more honestly, we would need to form lists in such a way that we come here to work on laws, to protect the interests of the Ukrainian people, not to show a certificate. So today’s first step is very important. If we don't do that, we're gonna listen to a speech that I recently read to the city head of Kiev's Leonid Chernewsky, and it's okay with the night that he might not go to work, too, because he's a chosen person. Thus, we will come to the point that the heads of the village council will not go to work. So once again, the political test for every national MP and opposition, the "Fatherland" faction will vote unanimously in favour of this decree.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u15	People's MP Kolocei, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u16	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, please give the floor to my colleague, Deputy Kiseljev. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u17	Vasil Alexiovich Kiselov, please. Then he'll be performing. Who's there? Litwin, right? Please, Vasil Alexiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u18	Dear colleagues! By fully supporting Vladimir Mikhailovich in his desire to force the national MPs to vote in person, I would like to say the following. Those who invented this know-how are talking about a sensory button, and were able to put it into action when it was in power, they didn't bring it in because it wasn't comfortable at the time. A storm in a glass of water was raised for the sole purpose of blocking the work of the Supreme Council. Of course, I don't mean Vladimir Mikhailovich. They're the ones who're pushing him to do this. We all understand, the vote was "for a colleague" after the election on a party basis. And it's no wonder, because when they say that he came out to give an interview and so on, it's from the wicked one. It's not about that, it's about party discipline. As the faction will decide, and now you will stop laughing, so will the MPs and they will vote. And we have a whole series of facts when, after a personal vote to vote on your judgment, the representatives of the BIT were expelled from the faction within an hour. And these are the facts. The 1996 Constitution, to which we have returned, has been accepted by deputies who have been elected on a purely majority basis. They were bound to the district, not to the party charter. 90 percent of the people's deputies were at work at the time, were in the hall, and that's a fact, too. Now the situation has changed. Elections are held on a more progressive European basis, which has also proved to be flawed. And if we're talking about a violation of the Constitution, as you call it, we need to bring ex-President Yashchenka to justice for the violations he has committed, by assigning and not releasing the heads of the administration. And so, in conclusion, I propose to adopt the draft Decree as a basis and send the author to work on it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u19	Oleg Zarubinski, please. Instead of Yuri Litwin. That's right. George Litwin signed up and moved on.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u20	Dear colleagues, a month after the Supreme Council began to function, in December 2007, I personally submitted a draft decree that introduced a system that would not allow a person who is not in the session room to vote. It was a very simple system: turnkeys to the entrance and exit, one that has existed in industrial enterprises for 20 to 30 years, if one card served to enter the hall or exit, and to vote. And if a person walked in, it would get more active. And that cost several tens of thousands of dollars. No one considered it, even made it so that it would not be considered, this determination, in this sessional room. That's true. In August 2007 In 2008, this sensory button was presidented. It was still possible for several months to put this sensor button into operation without any determination. If there were no certificates, why should it be presented? So there's something so pharisaic going on here. You should've entered this sensor button at the time. Our faction, the faction of the People's Party, will vote in favour of this decision, because we always stand for the position of personal vote. But what's more, Your Honor, it's not a technical question -- it's a question of the philosophy of parliamentary activity. If everyone votes for themselves and every day is at work, not distracting from what is not at work, but let someone vote for themselves, then other people will come to the Supreme Council, then it will be professional parliamentary activity, not an addition to their business activity, a roofing supplement and so on. Our faction will vote in favour of this decree. And he's very much asking his colleagues not to pharise. A seat should not determine the point of view. We are always in favour of a personal vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u21	Gregory Smythew. One minute, please. Then.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u22	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! I will personally support this decision because I believe and believe that it is necessary for our House to finally set an example for all the Ukrainian people as to how to work and have to carry out their duties on time, each day here. By the way, I took the floor and I asked Vladimir Mikhailovich to say that at number 2165, 04.03.2008, I had passed a decree and a bill amending the existing Rules. which indicated that the MP was obliged to vote in person. That's the first question. And the second question is, I want to answer Mr. Yatsenyuk, who was then Head of the Supreme Council. He returned my bill without any grounds or rights, without consideration. Here I am handing over these documents to the Head of the Supreme Council, Volodymyr Mihajlovich, and let him give the Secretariat a mandate, on which basis Mr. Yatsenuk, the Head of the Supreme Council, then returned my bill, which forced him not to accept this important, important document in time for our work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u23	It's not me. What are you giving me? Stone, please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u24	Valerius Kamchatny, group of Reforms for the Future. Our group is also in position to fully support the constitutional rules for the individual vote of the national MP. But what is it? Let us read with you the name and the substance of the proposed draft decision. Does this system provide personal voting? She's really making it impossible to vote for a few national MPs, but if you sit next to your neighbor, you press the sensory button and you vote, that's how the vote for another deputy happens. So the idea is right, but technically it needs to be improved, it's the first. Secondly, yesterday at a meeting of the Regulatory Committee, I asked those who created this system to technical, technical workers. And he asked if we could use the technical principles that were put into operation by this system, namely, the capacity, the metal guides.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u25	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u26	The system is flawed and we experimented this morning, there is a possibility that metal leaders can vote in a few. We need to improve.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u27	Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion. During the talks, the names of the national deputy, Yatzenuk, were mentioned. Please have the right to repeat. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm asking you, well, there's a right to reply. Calm down, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u28	Dear colleagues, I think we should stop this circus from discussing whether or not to comply with the Constitution of Ukraine. Article 84 of the Constitution: "The Ukrainian National MP votes in person." Do Parliament’s decisions need to be taken in order to comply with the Constitution? So I propose to conclude the discussion and to vote in general, I stress, in general, not to drive like a ram now. To include the Council system, and from now on and from now on, to vote in accordance with the Constitution. Because if we now vote as a basis, it will be the same as we voted as the basis for the removal of parliamentary immunity, and to this day there will be no parliamentary immunity, just as it will be under all other laws of freedom of speech: there is no law. In order to comply with the Constitution, there is no need for parliamentary decisions. The people of Ukraine elected members of parliament to comply with the Constitution, not to violate it. That is why we are voting in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u29	Honorable People’s Deputies! Distinguished People’s Deputies! Ladies and gentlemen, the matter has been discussed. I'd like that. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? I'd like that. Dear colleagues, I beg you, let's make a decision, because pathetic is a lot. At the same time, today we need to look for opportunities to force the MP to follow article 84. And it's offered with a sensory button. I'm just sorry that it's time for insight today, that when it was necessary to make decisions, they didn't make them. This is a necessary decision. And when the protocol of understanding was signed in 2008, the position of Article 84 was deleted. Who's wiped out? I'll hand over all these papers to the press. So let's not try to like people, but let's make the right decision. So, dear fellows, you won't mind, I'll put to the vote a draft decree to make it a decision. As a matter of fact, you don't get it or anything. I'm voting on the proposal for adoption as a basis and as a whole of the draft decree for the registration of Ukrainian national deputies and the determination of the results of their personal vote by means of a sensory key. Registration number 8218. Please vote. [[10:32:12]] For 222 [[B in m in s a l in]] Don't scream, please. Now. Calm down, dear fellows. "For" - 222. Now I'm going to put a second proposal to the vote for adopting a draft ruling. And then, if they don't take it as a base, let's go to work. [[B in m in s a l in]] Don't scream, please. I'm voting on a motion for a draft ruling as a basis. [[10:33:01]] For 221 [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, please be calm. I'm voting on the orientation of the draft regulation. But. Today I will introduce a draft Act amending the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I'll put it in today and I'll sign it. I'll bet you a vote on how to proceed with the drafting of the regulation. [[10:33:38]] For 254 The decision is not taken. [[B in m in s a l in]] I will today, honourable national deputies, register a draft decree, draft law amending the Rules. [[B in m in s a l in]] Copy that, yeah. A decision has been made, but at the same time I say, Your Honor, I beg your attention! A decision has been made to send a draft regulation for further development, along with today's introduction and registration of a draft law amending the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, all of it. The factions, please. Region Party – 177, "BUT – Fatherland" – 1, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 2, communists – 25, "Reforms for the Future" – 17, "The People's Party – 20, non-factional. The previous vote, please. Can I have the previous one or not? Dear colleagues! Because now Adam Ivanovich will look at his computer and read it, if there is one, because it is filming. Do you understand? Now, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u30	Dear colleagues! In principle, each of you can see on your monitors -- you have one. [[B in m in s a l in]] I repeat, each of you has a result on your monitor. But I'm announcing them to you. But I'm announcing them to you. Once again, once again, every single one of you has all the voting results on the monitor. They can't show the previous ones on the monitor right now, just the last vote. So I'm going to read you the results, where there were 222. But once again, each one of you has them. Regional Party – 10, BUT – 92, Our Ukraine – 51, Communists – 25, Reforms – 12, People's Party – 20, non-fractional – 12.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u31	Dear colleagues! I'm going to ask you to print now, and I'll tell you again then, if I have to name it, you know. Dear colleagues! We're working on it. The draft Order on Amendments to the Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision "On the Election of Heads, First Deputys, Deputy Heads, Secretaries, Members of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Sixth Call and Election of Heads, First Deputy, Deputy Heads, Secretary and Members of the Special Supervisory Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Privatization" is being announced for consideration." Dear colleagues! This is about the election of Berezhkin Stanislav Semenović, Ukrainian national deputy from the multi-mandatory national constituency of the Yulia Timoshenko District, faction of the Party of Regions as a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on budgetary matters. The right decision is the committee. I'll put this motion to the vote, please. Dear colleagues, I put to the vote a draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the election of Berezkin Stanislav Semenović as a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on budgetary matters. [[Registration number 8251]] Please vote. [[10:37:06]] For 248 Decision taken. Thank you. The draft Resolution on the Report of the Interim Investigative Commission on the Legality of Decision-making by the National Council of Ukraine on Television and Radio Talks on Competitions and the establishment of winners of language licenses using appropriate frequencies in 2005-2010 is announced. [[reshape]] Reported TSK head Inna Hermanovna Bogoslovska. The head of the TSC suggests that we consider this issue in a simplified way. I'll bet you a vote. [[10:38:03]] For 227 Decision taken. Please, Inna Hermanovna Bogoslovakska.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u32	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we've asked for a simplified procedure, so the Supreme Council has already received a previous report from the commission, and after the adoption of the previous report, we will continue to work on a huge number of documents. I can say that the Supreme Council has rightly defined its time when it has created such a TSC, because not only have we been able to verify the legality of licensing in the field of television and radio broadcasting in 2005-2010, but we have also come to the conclusion that today's National Council, the new National Council, has made requirements for its activities: requirements for publicity, openness and professionalism. What should we report to the Supreme Council? Unfortunately, in 2005-2010 the activities of the National Television and Radio Council were quite politicized. And this is particularly true in the illegal adoption of the January 27, 2010, decisions on new licenses for TV channels and the 5 channel channels. As a result of the work, we have received substantial evidence that these licences were issued illegally, and in fact the conclusions of the TSK were confirmed by the decisions of the courts to the highest authority in Ukraine. So we were able to now openly confirm that no questions about the suppression of freedom of speech were related to this issue, which is a legal issue that is being defined for the benefit of the law today. Speculations on this point, which we had in our own time, which made everyone indignant enough to look at this issue, were related to the fact that the representatives of these channels claimed that it was about their destruction. But by this time we've been seeing, over the course of the year, both the 5 channel and the TV are now speaking on those frequencies and according to them.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u33	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u34	They are now speaking in all the volume that they had before January 27, 2010. That is, there is no interference with the violation of their right to freedom of speech, no freedom of speech. At the same time, we are drawing attention to the Supreme Council, the Attorney General's Office, the Cabinet of Ministers, the President's need for an urgent development of a new modern concept of television and radio broadcasting, and we are asking the Supreme Council for a report and a draft ruling that we have proposed for your attention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u35	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, please sign up for a discussion. May I have the names of the people's deputies on the board? Andrey Pavlovski, "BUT" faction. Pass it again, because you're not being enlightened.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u36	Andrew Pavlovsky. In fact, you know, a violent incident with censorship. Here's an example. It's already in the walls of the Supreme Council. When Tuesday's "The Council" TV channel cut out my speech on a press point, and the Party of Deputies gave it to the full. Here's an example, Inna Hermanovna, why your commission needs to work even further, the more it's not clear why this has to happen, your commission should be working for another three months, by June of the month. And there are cases of censorship and violation of freedom of speech throughout the country, and you have to investigate it first. And so I propose not to support the closure of this commission, this commission should continue its work. And there are violent cases recognized by the international community that taking frequencies in the 5-channel on TV is a direct violation of the word. And the nation's leadership was also addressed by international institutions, and the leaders of the European Union, but our authority is like a deaf person who doesn't hear, sees, or still doesn't want to hear or see. So the commission has to investigate these disgraceful cases, violations of freedom of speech, including in Parliament's walls, and continue its work until June, and I see no reason to close the commission's work for another three months, but to work honestly, not to expose Horoshkowski, his business on the Inter Channel. Maybe you're in business with them, I don't know, partners? Therefore, we must be honest with the commission’s head, and the commission should continue to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u37	Vladimir Karpuk, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u38	Vladimir Karpuk, "Our Ukraine" please pass the word to Irina Volodymyrni Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u39	Irina Heratschenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u40	Dear colleagues! I want to say that every person in this country who is monitoring the activities of the Nakrad knows how many of the TV channels have been licensed since 1993 without any competition. And we have whole holdings created, absolutely no contests, no competitions, and no court decisions. And when we say today that, as if we had two channels that weren't so competitive, we don't mention that today, the former member of this Nakrada who signed these papers works as head of the State Department of Ukraine, he's the publisher of the majority. What kind of violations are we talking about? This is a professional person you've assigned to another job. We're talking about the fact that the former Nakrad had mislicensed two channels. Somehow they're opposing these channels. So today's Nakrad is doing the right thing. In a year the TV channel was not licensed. None! Not in any of the smallest places at all. And we're talking about freedom of speech when we actually have real censorship! When inconvenient or opposition channels are thus closed. They don't give a word. Yesterday was a meeting of the National Council for Television and Radio. So for the first time in the history of Ukraine, a new radio company that no one knows about on the radio station has received all the 55 licenses it has requested. These are licenses, though. no one in Ukraine knows. This, too, may be about such a lack of freedom of speech. Who's behind this. And the Nakrad says that they were using a purely professional approach, because there's this kind of, like, very bright offer: 20 percent of the information, 80 of the music. I think that in order not to embarrass the council today, we need to get out: to listen to the report of the National Council of Today, we need professionals to come there so that there is no shame.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u41	Dear people's deputies, no one else. The faction was a performance. Please, Mikhailo Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u42	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! Inna Hermanovna reported objective information on the work done, I think the result of the work is not what she read, and the result of the work we see on the TV channels. I think that the mass criticism of the authorities by the media, by all channels, of such access by the opposition to channels, as now, has not been in 20 years of free independent Ukraine. So that's the main result, there's total freedom of speech, and what we need to understand about media is that it's big money, very big money, hundreds of millions of dollars, billions of dollars. Therefore, where there is a conflict between commercial media-holdings, a business conflict, it is resolved in a court of law, the policy should not be drawn to the ears. From the point of view of freedom of expression and freedom of access to the media, the opposition has never been so.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u43	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u44	I therefore support the proposal and the Party of the Regions supports the proposal of Inna Germanovna to adopt and approve the outcome of the Commission's work as positive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u45	Thank you. Peter Simonenko, please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u46	Simonenko, the Communist faction. On a specific proposal that has been made, the faction will vote, not on freedom of speech, but on the commercial transactions that wanted to take over the information space and so-called capitalization at the end of the orange kingdom, and to carry out certain channels and from the air of millions of dollars into the pocket, that is to say the truth. With regard to the freedom of speech that you gentlemen are trying to speak for, you have a keen interest in speaking here. What freedom of speech you're talking about when all these television channels are made up of groups and financial, industrial and large capital. You created them, by the way, you gave them all licenses. That is why you, today, are saying that you have taken the freedom of speech from the Ukrainian people and submitted it only to the interests of capital. And there's no freedom of speech on TV at all. Therefore, I would like once again to stress, gentlemen, that you do not speak at all about freedom of speech today, but fight for it so that the people have freedom of speech, not your pocket.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u47	Dear colleagues! Question completed. The faction was a performance. Dear National Deputies! There's no speaking committee. The TSC is acting on the rights of the committee. Dear National Deputies! I'm going to put a draft ruling to the vote, and I'm going to say that there's going to be a technical editing, let's say, here in article 2, where it says, "The National Television and Radio Council is going to propose to invite you in a mandatory manner." [[for the stenogram]] Maybe we should say, "suppose the National Council," and then we should say, "suppose the National Council." It says in paragraph 3, "to determine how to modernize strategy." Obviously "determining strategy," if you don't mind? In paragraph 4, "work and prepare." Obviously, there's either "work" or "prepar." And with that in mind, in preparing for the signature, to do a technical editing. I will put to the vote a motion for a draft ruling as a decision on the report of the Interim Investigation Commission on the rule of law and decision-making by the National Television and Radio Council on the conduct of competitions and the establishment of the winners of speech licenses using appropriate frequencies in 2005-2010. [[Registration number 8241]] [[reshape]] Please vote. [[10:50:05]] For 243 Decision taken. Honourable National Deputies, I am announcing the draft Order on Hearing the Information of the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine Anatolia Mogilov and the heads of the Wallery Horoshkovsky Bureau on the facts of arresting journalists from the above-mentioned authorities. Rapporteur - national deputy of Ukraine Vladimir Ariev, co-reporter - Deputy Head of the Committee on Legislative Security, Law Protection Activities of Vladimir Stretovic. I'm voting on a motion to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[10:51:02]] For 210 Decision taken. Please, Vladimir Igorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u48	Dear colleagues, when a few people are needed, we have laws that are approved and signed in one day. If these are urgent questions that do not affect the interests of certain individuals, they may be delayed for several months. On December 11th, Kirilo Baranov, deputy editor-in-chief of the Internet newspaper, spent 12 hours at the TV station, which is not clear why. Since summer, TV’s main channel director, Mr. Mikola Knieżicki, has been under surveillance and has repeatedly been investigated by TV journalists. On December 13, 2010, Ukrainian Truth Journalist Mustafa Najem was detained by the Berkut Special Forces. Well, then, in principle, this disgraceful phenomenon was dealt with, but the sediment was said to have remained. On December 14, 2010, the editor-in-chief of the magazine Vitaly Sich, the editor-in-chief of the magazine Vitaly Sich, was searched by the employees of Berkuta. I gave the draft hearing order to the Minister of Internal Affairs and the Head of the Board on December 15, 2010, with a December 21st proposal to listen, you know, to the hot trails. Well, basically, I don't think it's the older one that the offer is out of date. Because the questions to the Minister of Internal Affairs and the Head of the U.S.S.A. about theirs, about what happens to journalists is. In particular, there is a question of investigating the disappearance of the journalist of Kharkiv Klimentiev, and so has the attacks on journalists from the regional media. And in this case, well, it's better late than never. Therefore, I ask you to support this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u49	Thank you, too. Please, Vladimir Mikolaiovich Stretovic, deputy head of the Committee on Legal Protection.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u50	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Law Enforcement of Law Enforcement dealt with the draft Order on Hearing Information of the Minister of Interior of Mohilov and Head of the Board of the Ukraine of Horoshkovsky, submitted by the People’s Deputy Ariev. [[on the fact that journalists are being held by employees of the above-mentioned authorities]] [[registration 7474]] The purpose of the draft regulation is to stop the illegal activity of the IMF and BSS personnel, to ensure the legality of the protection of Ukrainian citizens' rights. The Explanatory Note to the Decision cites the facts of the wrongful acts of journalists on the part of internal affairs and the Ukrainian Security Service, according to the author. It's also a 12-hour detention of the deputy editor-in-chief of the Internet newspaper "Fraz" Kirill Baranova, the Director-General of the TV Knieżicki Channel and other employees of this company in the summer of 2010, the arrest of journalist "Berkut" columnist Mustafa Nayem and December 14 the same "Berkut" delay and search of the editor-in-chief of the publication "Vitaly Sich". In view of the above, it is recommended that the draft resolution be recommended that the Minister of Interior and the Head of the Board be heard for approval by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In the author’s view, the adoption of a decree will help to prevent abuses by public officials and increase the confidence of citizens in the authorities. In preparation for the preliminary consideration of this draft, the committee sent requests to the Attorney General's Office, the Security Service and the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine. To date, only replies have been received from the Attorney General’s Office and the Ukrainian Security Service. The management of the Ministry of Internal Affairs did not respond to the committee’s appeal. A letter from the Ukrainian Security Service reported that there had been no media arrests. Instead, a letter from the Attorney General’s Office points out that journalists have been detained by internal affairs agencies and Ukraine’s U.S.S.A. for committing crimes in general. A copy of the letter is on the committee. In doing so, there is no explanation for the detention of the Deputy Chief Editor of the Internet Gazeta "Fraza" Baranova, as well as the supervision of the Director-General of the Prince's Canal by the detention of Mustafa Najem.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u51	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u52	As a result of the discussion of the matter, the committee concluded that it was appropriate to support the initiative of the Ariev People’s Deputy, since the draft decree had passed the deadline for the said action, it suggested that the Minister of Interior should be heard and that the Head of the Board of Directors should be heard at the meeting of the Supreme Council on April 8, 2011. And one phrase from each other. If the Supreme Council allows society to shut the mouth of journalists, we can dump 20 years of our democratic, independent existence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u53	Dear colleagues, please sign up for this discussion. Names of the national MPs, please. Vladimir Romanovich Moysik. Irina Heratchenko? Inina Heratchenko, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u54	Dear colleagues, I want to say that today it has happened that we are discussing the issue of freedom of speech in Ukraine in the second order. I want to support my colleague as the head of the TSC for investigating the facts of censorship and the pressure on the media, because almost every week our TSC gets the same statements, from journalists who talk about the facts of pressure, first of all from law enforcement. And it's too bad that when we go to the appropriate statements, to the law enforcement authorities, we always get the same answer, as it says under the bar, that everything was good, nothing was confirmed, there were no violations and so on. I think that in fact today it's just the facts, the more faithful ways of pressure on journalists have become much more sophisticated. Unfortunately, our system has begun to work more professionally on this issue. Journalists complain that the power structures are more closed today. This is similarly complained of by civil rights organizations today. And I think that a very large function that is important to the Ukrainian Parliament is the protection of citizens' rights. So I support our colleague Vladimir Ariev’s proposal, and it seems to me that we should all vote for it. And what I'm saying is that tomorrow we're gathering a round table that the same law enforcement authorities have offered to conduct on media relations, on power structures today. And I want to say that unfortunately, the first persons in law enforcement never come to Parliament almost today, because it's the same thing, it's not the desire to be open and work in that direction. I think Vladi's offer is very right, let's support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u55	Andrew Schlell, "BUT" faction, "The Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u56	Dear viewers, distinguished radio audiences, distinguished colleagues of the national MPs, the honourable presiding officer! Of course, the faction of Yulia Tymoshenko unanimously supports the faction of the two structures, and the Ministry of Internal Affairs, and the Ukrainian Security Service. Because, well, I don't think two and 20 minutes is enough to just count all the crimes committed by law enforcement against freedom of speech. Because it's not about a journalist, it's about when there's an attack or pressure, what's called law enforcement or force structures, it's about trying to shut the mouth of freedom of speech, which is to break freedom of speech, which is the main task of the Party of the Regions. They do not hide it; they rely on it for much of their party activity. That's how they picked up the footage. They put such tasks ahead of them. And actually, that's why we have to protect freedom of speech now, because it's a fundamental part of democracy. And when we talk about freedom of speech, it means that a journalist who's under the press today must be protected at least by something. And of course, one of the most effective forms is because of the law. I think there's going to be an appropriate bill that's going to allow journalists not to distribute the sources of information, because it's being removed illegally and fraudulently, in fact, the materials that journalists have acquired. But you can also guarantee 110 percent that freedom of speech fighters, fighters for the destruction of Ukraine and democracy, the representatives of the Party of the Regions unanimously do not support this. So, of course, the initiative will be, but nevertheless, we need to know who are the enemies of democracy, the enemies of journalism and the enemies of society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u57	Thank you. Please, Mikhaylo Chechtov, one minute. Then Peter Simonenko, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u58	Dear colleagues! Respectable radio audiences! I want to refute the disgusting lie that has been told to the Party of the Regions that we are against being objective media. We have considered and believe that we are doing everything we can to ensure that the media are the fourth independent branch of government. The fourth independent branch of power in the media is the main attribute of democracy in the country, and we are building a democratic state. I don't know how you do it. We're going to Europe. But we are definitely against involving law enforcement agencies in the dirty political divisiveness. They have enough work to do. Do not stop them from doing what they are meant to do under the Constitution. There is no need for law enforcement authorities to be drawn to their ears where they are not supposed to. to work in the field where they are not supposed to do so. We therefore propose that this draft regulation should not be supported. We are against the dirty political divisiveness of law enforcement.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u59	Peter Simonenko, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u60	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues! I want to address you with the right to do so because I am not raising this problem for the first time in the walls of Parliament. Together, we must fight, not in words, but in matters of freedom of speech. What am I talking about? Who today will deny that, unfortunately, we have governments in our State, including various institutions of state and information, working on an order? What kind of political power is in power and order work, and, please, gentlemen, good again, I turn to you: don't talk again about freedom of speech, because you're not protecting journalists today -- you're protecting their owners, especially those who have long destroyed freedom of speech, and as such, democracy -- it doesn't exist in our country. They're on call, and you know it. That is why I propose: let's fight against the system that causes journalists to be forced to work on the order, the law enforcement agencies are working, the judicial authorities are working on the order, that's where we have to find the answer to the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u61	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u62	What you're suggesting right now, I'm supporting Chechtev's colleague, it's dismemberment, not the fight for freedom of speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u63	Ladies and gentlemen, we have completed our consideration of the matter. Dear colleagues, this draft decree was introduced in 16.12.2010 and was proposed to hear the relevant information on December 21, 2010. At the same time, I bring to your knowledge that it** will probably match your vision with the decision of the Temporary Investigation Commission led by Irina Heratchenko. On Friday, the Supreme Council of Ukraine will listen to relevant information from law enforcement forces. So here we could find a compromise solution without even voting on the issue. But at the same time, honourable colleagues, in accordance with the Rules, I will put to the vote this draft decree only by deleting the date of December 21, 2010. If the Supreme Council of Ukraine supports this draft decision, then we'll set a day. Right? Nevertheless, the matter will be discussed on Friday. So, your honor, I'm putting to the vote the draft Supreme Council of Ukraine decree, registration number 7474, removing the words "December 21, 2010." It's still behind the text. Please identify yourself. [[11:04:48]] For-125 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, I remind you again that tomorrow, on Friday, we will be hearing this information on this subject. I mean, in fact, we're somehow implementing the ideas that were set up by our colleague Volodymyr Ariev.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u64	Please, by the factions. The Party of Regions is one, the BUTT is the Parenthood, 61, our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense, 41, the Communists are zero, the Reforms for the Future is 16, the People's Party is zero, the non-factional is six. Dear colleagues, I am announcing a draft order for the creation of a temporary commission of inquiry by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the investigation of the circumstances of the signing of gas agreements between the NAC "Naftogaz Ukraine" and the VAT "Gazprom" on the existence of signs of State betrayal in the area of economic security in Ukraine. [[Registration number 8240]] I suggest you consider this question because it's organizational, with a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[11:06:00]] For 216 Decision taken. The rapporteur is the National Deputy of Ukraine, Bogoslovska Inna Hermanovna, co-rapporteur, Head of the Committee on Rules, Deputy Ethics and Security of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Vladimir Volodymyrovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u65	Thank you. Dear colleagues, since the reduced procedure, I just want to say one thing, if in January 2009 the authorities of that time did not block the work of the Interim Commission of Inquiry on the analysis of the signing of gas contracts, Ukraine would not have the horror that we have now when we have the highest price in Europe for gas that destroys the Ukrainian economy. In addition, we received further testimony from the public sources of information that, at the time of the signing of the gas contracts, the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Mrs. Timoshenko, had her own huge debts to the Russian side on "The Ukraine's Single Energy Systems". That is, under such conditions, if this information is confirmed, we will have every reason to talk about the existence of signs of a crime of treason. It is very important for us that Ukraine has the opportunity to review the gas agreements that have been signed under illegal conditions that have not been signed in favour of Ukraine. That's why we're proposing to create a temporary commission of inquiry. We've had a few changes since yesterday, because today the faction "Our Ukraine" has come up with the proposal to include Anatoly Sergiyovich instead of Harovski and has been appointed to include a representative from the group "Reform for the Future" by Bobilov Aleksandra Fadejowich. So I'm going to ask you to make these changes to the draft regulation. I'd be happy if we did get a written letter from the Faction of BUTU. If not, say you refuse, but we need to know your position. Because yesterday, we agreed, but we never got a written request. Please, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u66	Thank you. There'll be a discussion, then we will. And the position is known. All right, then, do you? Have a seat, please. Mr. MacKeenko Vladimir Volodymyrovich, head of the committee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u67	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! At my meeting on 16 March 2011, I will consider a draft decision by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the establishment of a temporary commission of inquiry by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the investigation of the circumstances of the signing of the gas agreements between the NAC "Naftogaz Ukraine" and the Wat "Gazprom" on the existence of signs of State betrayal in the field of economic security of Ukraine, submitted by the Ukrainian People's Deputy of God's Word, Other German, at the number 8240. To meet the requirements of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In the motion for a ruling, the committee head of the interim commission of inquiry proposes to elect the National Deputy of Ukraine, Bogoslovak Inna Hermanovna, a member of the Party of the Regions. Deputy Head of the Commission of the People's Deputies of Ukraine, member of the People's Party's Deputies, and eight members of this temporary commission. We note that a written proposal for the inclusion of representatives from the MPs in the interim commission has been made by the MPs of the Party of the Regions, the Communist Party of Ukraine and the People's Party. In addition, the committee proposed paragraphs 6 and 7 of the draft decision, which referred to the election of the secretary of the interim commission of inquiry, and that the head, deputy head and secretary of the interim commission of inquiry could not be members of one faction to exclude. Since these issues are settled in article 85 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and do not refer to the list of issues to be mentioned in the decision to form a temporary commission of inquiry. The committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that the draft decree should be included in the agenda of the plenary meetings and considered. Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u68	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please register to exchange your thoughts on this legislative initiative. Please sign in. Please sign up Jaroslav Suhi. Since the recording took place, then you will be speaking. I didn't read what I thought. I'll read it again.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u69	May I have the floor to Michael Chechtev?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u70	I don't see it in the committee's decision. That was the way to form it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u71	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! We have done more damage than we have in thoughtless actions over the past five years in the oil and gas sector, even though it is hard to imagine. The first is when they tried to blind the image of the enemy from Russia. Then we freeze half-Europe, end up with Russia's agreement with European investors, two bypass pipes coming in: South and North Stream, and soon we can sit on our pipe, warm in the sun, lighten our feet, no one will need it, cut it on scrap metal. This one strategic error was irreparable, it cannot be corrected. And as the President of the country is not trying to do today, the Government will convince us that we are a transitor of Russia and that we refuse the South Stream. No, Russia doesn't believe us, it drives two pipelines, and our pipe will soon be the breast of a rustling metal. But that is not enough, indeed, to pay tribute to the wisdom of Putin, who has signed, from the Russian point of view, a document that meets the national interests of the Russian State. On our part, the full surrender of national interests is still in mind when it comes to the gas agreement, which contains the formula of 450, today we place practically the price of gas on the blades of our industry. In view of the situation in the Middle East, the situation in Japan has practically driven us into a corner. So, I think it's timely and timely, today's decision to figure out how we ourselves have done the damage that our enemies could not have done. Therefore, I propose to support the Inna Hermanovna bill in order to really help us deal with the situation, it may be true for us and for the Russians to sit at the negotiating table and find a compromise solution in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u72	Roman Zabzaluk, "BUT" faction, "The Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u73	I give the word to Sergio Sass.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u74	Please, Sergei Sass.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u75	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! National Deputy Sas, Timoshenko Yuli Block, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, in the people speak, once, it's a coincidence, two, a coincidence, and three, it's a coincidence. What happened yesterday at the meeting of the Regulatory Committee on this subject. Here's a draft ruling registered at the Supreme Council yesterday, and it was in an emergency order. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, you don't have to be taken into account either, because without your commission, he was on the second time in violation of the Committee Act, a violation of the Rules Act was imposed on a regulatory committee. So, dear colleagues, I would like to welcome the Supreme Council, because from yesterday's Committee on Rules of Procedure in the Supreme Council, there's a unit for meeting the demands of the President's Administration, a dot. The next thing that happened was essentially the next thing I wanted to say to Ukrainian citizens. The point is that when the authorities realized that the cases concerning Volodymyrna Timoshenko in relation to the charge of car acquisition were not perceived by society and collapsed legally, because people could not understand how the government and government could be drawn to the leader in general for saving thousands and tens of thousands of lives. People don't understand why money that's been devoted to our citizens in the peak of the financial crisis has to be held accountable. The point is, now we have to justify why we have to increase the price of gas one more time. At Timoshenko's, you remember, the respectable citizens, the price didn't go up, it was somewhere within $220, now about 300, and they say it's normal. And in order to justify April's gas exploration, one more way or another, we need to talk about those who were in power before.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u76	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u77	In conclusion, I would like to say that the honourable authorities, the distinguished Party of Regions, cannot build a country with its head turned back. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u78	Thank you. Yuri Carmazin is transferring the right to speak to Sergei Sobolev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u79	Dear colleagues! Dear radio listeners! In general, there's a unique thing going on, and notice, today, a commission is closing down its work to protect Mr. Fertash's interests on the Inter Channel. And the second commission, with the same person, is being created again to protect Mr. Firthash's interests now only in the gas sector. It kind of came out of nowhere. Of course not. Now, here's the key question. I remember the one who spoke from the Party of Regions telling us from this rostrum that the Kharkiv Gas Agreements offer $40 billion in investments in the Ukrainian economy. And now it turns out there's no cent of investment in the Ukrainian economy. And the price of gas goes up every quarter, and more than that, it goes up for both businesses and the population. Clearly, then, we need to justify our failure in the gas field. And now it's the key. Tell me, please, and someone has heard of the discovery of a criminal case regarding the Prime Minister of the Russian Federation, Mr. Putin, after our Prime Minister, Mr. Azarov, said that Putin had forgiven Ukraine for half a billion dollars in debt. I didn't hear anything yesterday or the day before or the day before? Is it clear why you're doing this? With one goal to mix Russian-Ukrainian relations into mud and stop normal cooperation between our countries. And everything is done by the hands of the Party of Regions. But they can't do that, I'm sure they'll have to take responsibility for raising the price of gas and for the population and for businesses during the time of Janukovich and Azarov's domination. And this committee can't be created by any sign. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u80	Ladies and gentlemen, we have completed our consideration of the matter. Oh, yeah, one minute, Pashinsky's right. Dear colleagues, from MPs and factions are entitled to one minute if they sign up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u81	Yes. Thank you, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, everything really, according to the Rules. Parliamentary Group Reforms for the Future, Kamchatny. I would like to make a small point because our colleague, Vladimir Volodymyrovich, the Head of the Rules Committee, makes one mistake. There have been proposals not from three factions, but from four, including the Reform Group for the Future. And I would like to point out once again that the position of our group is to participate fully in all processes, all activities of the Supreme Council. We urge that an objective truth be reached in this regard, not from the mutual accusations that have been made today and on the other hand, until this commission begins to work, but from the circumstances for which it is created, but only after that to make a sharp, or other act. We are proposing a constructive work for the Supreme Council, and that is why we are delegating to this committee our colleague, Bobilov Aleksandra Fadiyovich. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u82	Ladies and gentlemen, we have completed our consideration of the matter. Since we had a heated discussion of the problem, it evidently showed that we needed to study the matter impartially, objectively. And not for the purpose of putting someone under a wall. And I think that this commission, if the Supreme Council makes a decision, should work objectively and responsibly, since it is a country, the interests of the people. Dear colleagues, given the fact that the BUT faction is "The Fatherland" has officially stated that it has not submitted its nominations to this commission, specifically regarding the matter. Well, please, dear fellows, I beg of you! Why? I'm asking you, I'm paying attention to the First Deputy Chairman of the Regulatory Committee, work on the committee. Once again, you have posted footage, including in the secretariat, work and fulfill your obligations, and do not pass your problems on to anyone. With regard to Shago Eugen Petrovich and Pashinsky Sergey Volodymyrovich, we remove them from the list and leave them behind the faction to submit their candidates. At the same time, I ask the regulatory committee, in connection with the changes and movements that we have made in the middle of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, to recalculate quotas so that we can understand when we create commissions, when we form delegations that are possible in every political faction. Dear colleagues, plus removing two of the names of Shago and Pashinsky, we're adding the name Bobilov Aleksandra Fadiyovich from the MP group "For Order Reforms". And taking into account these clarifications. What? Instead of who? [[B in m in s a l in]] Instead of the Harovsky Matvienko Anatoly. Yeah? Dear colleagues, given these details about the composition, I'll read it. Dear colleagues, there is no procedure. The chairman of the commission is the Head of theology, the Deputy Head. What line? I didn't call your last name. Dear colleagues, I am in control, calmly. I didn't call it a last name. The job was called, not by name. Bogoslovska – Head of the Commission, Deputy Head of the Commission – Yuri Litwin, members of the Commission: Igor Zvaric, Nadosha Oleg, Oljinik Vladimir, Alexandrovska Alla, Matvienko Anatoly and Bobilov Alexander This is the composition of the commission. I'm voting on a motion for a draft ruling as a decree, registration number 8240. Please vote. [[11:22:50]] For 256 I'll take the order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u83	Please, by the factions. Region Party - 182, BUT - 0, Our Ukraine - 3, Communists - 25, Reforms for the Future - 20, People's Party - 20, non-fractional - 6. There is no procedure. Read the Rules. A draft Land Market Act is under consideration. [[Registration numbers 2143-1 and 2143-2]] The reporter is Tuck. Bevanko reports from the committee. Please, what are the suggestions?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u84	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! I would still like this bill to be considered in a simplified procedure. I'll argue later, why?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u85	There is an offer to consider the procedure. I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:24:14]] For 212 Decision taken. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u86	Dear Chairman, the honourable ones are present! Indeed, today we are discussing a very important question that has a direct response in society that directly affects the lives of some 16 million of our citizens living in the Ukrainian village. This bill was drafted just three years ago, in February 2008. On February 10, he registered with the Supreme Council. During that period, three bills were registered: ours, where the authors are Sulkovsky, Tereshuk, Bebelzenko, and I, in addition, our colleague John the Rabbit, was a government bill. During that time, the government withdrew its bill, with only two remaining. During this period, a number of public hearings, discussions, were held. We had meetings with NGOs, with many representatives of international funds. Finally, over the last three years, there's been a lot of change in legislation. I want to tell you that, literally in two weeks, we're going to be in this room looking at the Law on State Land cadastre, which is actually the first-ever introduction of the land market. This bill, I'm about to stop, is already very much in line with many departments and ministries. And so, from that point of view, I would still ask you not to talk about this problem today. I'll say a few more words right now, but I would still ask you to take it off the table and send it out for processing. Today, several working groups have been formed, including the Ministry of Ours, at the committee. We have a lot of work to do today. Today, there has been a very broad debate in society about this idea of marketing the land, and we are already on the committee, please, and the committee has already joined us. We're going to have parliamentary hearings in about a week. I know what's gonna happen.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u87	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u88	There will be a broad discussion at these parliamentary hearings. Here is the concept of government, the concept of the President's administration, the concept of public organizations. And given the above, I ask you to send this bill in number 2143-1 for further processing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u89	Thank you. Have a seat. Bill 2143-2. Ivan Hare, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u90	Ivan Hare, Ukrainian People's Party. Most of me have denied me the opportunity to present my bill fully, to show its alternative to the government's parliamentary and governmental future. In fact, you didn't allow Parliament's debate on the nation's issue, because you don't want people to know where the apologists of the accelerated market for agricultural land are going to find out, and this is President Janukovic, the government, the Parliamentary majority, and their associates, the great capital, particularly the international, and the Cossacks, who are going to grab the crumb from the oligarch table, will lead the Ukrainians, Ukraine. I realize that with this brief discussion, you're being vilified from my bill to clear a place for government, with a completely opposite conceptual fulfillment. I have only time to warn society of the terrible consequences of the hasty, unprepared, vulgar agricultural market. I'm talking to those who in any way want to cancel the moratorium on land sales since 2012. You offer not the market, but the market, without clear rules. For you, land is just a resource for financial speculation, for profit, and no more. So you're looking for laws that would in no way burden the purchase and sale of land, its movement. You need a market where everything will determine the size of your wallet. But in a democratic Europe, the land market is a fairly rigid regulatory system where there is no room for trade. In that market, the land itself is not sold; the land is sold there at the same time. Therefore, your market for the earth will bring, not prosperity, but the final destruction of the village. Your market for land will lead to the total degradation of human capital in the countryside. Your land market will blow up the food security of the state. Your land market will depopulate the village. Your market for the earth will be reversed by the deep degradation of the soil and the deterioration of the ecological situation. Your land market will destroy still working farms and agricultural enterprises.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u91	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u92	The village will be discarded by zero. Your land market will make the Ukrainians forget their European choice. In the heart of Europe, Latin - American latifundia will appear the size of a nation. The crucifixion of Europe is not necessary. Why do I say these bitter words for every Ukrainian? Why do I draw such hard conclusions? Because I can see it in the law that the Lord has declared, how can I say it? The weed, yes. And from the government, we're going to have a better law on the market for the land because they're driven by one interest is profit.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u93	Thank you. It turns out the ladies of one faction don't know each other. Please, from the Committee of Bevanko Valeriy Fedorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u94	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! Committee on Agrarian Policy and Land Relations. On June 17, 2008, he reviewed Ukraine's draft laws on land market and supported Bill 2143-1, introduced by Ukrainian national deputies Sulkovsky, Bebelzenk, Sigal, Tereshuk, Tkač, Timoshenko. Bill 2143-2, introduced by John Zaj, was recommended to be rejected. In particular, the committee finds the following provisions of the bill submitted by Mr. Zayj unacceptable. It is unwarranted to set up another collective body on local councils – the Commission for the Regulation of the Traffic in Agricultural Lands, which will be responsible for the approval of the sale of land. As a result, manual land administration with all the corruption components. The other one. The granting of priority rights to the purchase and sale of agricultural land to eight categories of persons would greatly and unjustifiably complicate the procedure for the conclusion of contracts for the sale of agricultural land. Each bill also contains internal contradictions, namely, that the provisions of article 18 prohibit the sale of land rations for the allocation of land in kind, and that of article 21 allows for such sale, and so forth. At the same time, Bill 2143-1, submitted by a group of Ukrainian national deputies, is of a systemic nature and is the most fully regulated relations that arise in the land market. However, given that almost three years have passed since the registration of this bill, it is quite appropriate to propose the drafters of the bill on the need to redraft it, taking into account the changes that have taken place in legislation during this time. On the basis of what has been said, we propose Bill 2143-1 to send it to the authors for further work, and Bill 2143.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u95	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u96	And Bill No.2143-2 rejects. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u97	Thank you. Let's sign up for the performance. Garbage, faction of the region. Prepare Kravchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u98	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national MPs, I will personally vote in favour of bringing this bill back to work and so will we. My motivation goes to the next one. You all know that, according to the reform carried out in the agricultural sector by land of agriculture, we did not have a very transparent, not completely transparent situation in Ukraine. That's what I'm gonna say. the just alienation of the land, or the transfer of this right to citizens living in the countryside. A large part of the citizens who were not a member of the church at the time did not get land. This is true of people who worked in other fields, not without them. They didn't work directly in the pubs. Much of the citizens who live in towns, cities and so forth have not benefited from this right because the State has not granted them this right, according to the existing Constitution. The next moment, I thought, and I think, and I call on everyone to think about it, we can't let in one day in one night the land pass from, so to speak, state property, into some private collective or other enterprise. You all know that the reforms that have been made, or the privatization of our industry, have led to the fact that much of the production, as produced in Ukraine, is not being produced today. Most of the people who worked in our industry are forced to be in labour migration and become, according to some, from six to six. Between five and six million people. If we think about citizens who live in our village, and almost a third of these citizens have a future for their children and grandchildren to have a future, we have to put in place one mechanism. Must be, shouldn't it be the market of the earth, if we've already gone on this path -- the decay of the earth, the transfer of acts to the right of ownership, then certainly the market of the earth must be. But my personal opinion should. is that the land must have market relations, but these market relations should be regulated in so-called Transitional positions. Transitional positions, in my opinion, should not be.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u99	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u100	Transitional positions should be at least 50 years old and exclusive law, exclusive law, I emphasize, land purchases should be made by the State. The state must create two organs: a government and a land fund, and then it will provide a decent residence in our future generations on our home land. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u101	Kravchuk, BUT faction, prepare Lechchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u102	Vasil Kravchuk, “The House of Yulia Timoshenko – the Party of the Fatherland. ” Lately, the haste of all the reforms that the current authorities are trying to carry out has led the Ukrainians to a state of disillusionment, frustration, and indignation. The last drop of human patience can be the adoption of the Land Market Act. First, there is no need to run ahead of the steam: on March 23, there will be parliamentary hearings from this extremely important problem for Ukraine, and secondly, there will be a need to learn the idea of seeing the peasants themselves, the owners of the ponds. And for example, according to the Institute of Sociology of the National Academy of Sciences, there has been a steady increase in the negative attitude towards private property on the ground since 1994. From 44 per cent to 53 per cent in 2008 and to 57 per cent in 2010, the number of proponents of land sales is declining, from 38 per cent to 25 per cent. It is not surprising, for all things have been taken away from the people, and the earth remains. And thirdly, first of all, we have to think about the future of our nation. Unfortunately, it is now clear that the political will, the position of the President and his team, that the market for the land will be put in place, is clear that this team is now comfortable with the high level of corruption in the state, especially in the courts, to speed up the market for the land. The rapid introduction of the earth’s market can lead to hungry riots, social conflicts, and the final extinction of the village. The agricultural market is now dangerous and harmful to Ukraine. Selling or not selling land is a matter of national security, of economic independence, of social security, of the future. The land of Ukraine is like the oil of Azerbaijan, the Arab Emirates. Regrettably, the government of Azarov does not understand that it is necessary to trade, not in the land, no matter how much they want it, but in its cultivation. The desire of today’s elite.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u103	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u104	The desire of today's elite to overenrichment can lead Ukraine to an explosion that will explode into a 10-fold tax haven. With the adoption of the Land Market Act, peasants can become slaves and Ukrainians will starve with the most expensive black people. The real war for food in the world is just ahead. According to the UN, the demand for grains will increase by 50 percent by 2030 and by 100 percent by 2050. And the planet’s population will increase from 6 billion to 9.5 billion. Clearly, the price of land will only increase.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u105	Thank you. Vasil Petrovich, you signed up for it and you're against it. Thank you. Please sit down. Three minutes to go. Glacier Vladimir, Communist faction. Get ready for Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u106	Vladimir Leschchenko, Communist faction, Chernigovishte. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national MPs, distinguished voters. As much as you can in the Supreme Council, beyond its walls, you can see how to take away the land of the peasants. For a decade and a half, at the direction of the International Monetary Fund, and all of them: both gray and burro malin, and orange, and others, magnets, oligarchs -- they're just thinking about how to take this land to the peasants. Trafficking in land is an extremely serious sin. It's like trading the Fatherland. Earthlings cannot be taken from the earth. It's like taking out a person's air. What's more, all these bills, you see, are intertwined into the agreement of one clan or another. That clan wanted to take his bill, this clan wants to take its bill. I propose to reject both of these bills as harmful to the people of Ukraine. The first author takes the picture. And the second one says that it's against trade in land, and he's already writing about it being the market of the earth. And I want to stress the next thing that's in the first bill, and we're predicting that it's government almost, it's conceptually scary things. The first is that they can't own land there by foreign citizens, by legal persons and so on, only by agricultural purposes, and in the city they can buy. So we're going to start trading Ukraine from cities, sell it, then sell it to the countryside. The other one. The sale of the land share of the land of the pie is not allowed until it is released in kind in the area. Where did you see her in the village to be assigned to the area? The tenants have taken over everything, and in the area alone, the portion and the documents themselves, and other peasants will never be able to buy. That's why I'm against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u107	Karmazin Yuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u108	Yuri Carmazin. The Party of Motherland Defenders. Respectable compatriots! In the Constitution very few things are referred to in several articles, articles 13 and 14 of the Constitution, refer to the earth. It's about the land in two articles of the Constitution, it's for those who don't know who put the question in the agenda today. Article 13 stipulates that the earth, the nadra, the atmospheric air, the water and other natural resources within the territory of Ukraine, the natural resources and the continental shelf, exclusively the sea economic zone, are property objects of the Ukrainian people. I'm asking you, where do these lines say that you can get rid of this right? Where do you find a place between these lines for foreigners when they negotiate there, possibly rulers? Ask yourself, did the Prime Minister hang orders, as if the Orthodox in Israel, the glory of God, may he be wiser and begin to read the Constitution? Maybe? What, then, might they ask and sell land in Israel? And they sell to foreigners and inherit land? Are agricultural land being sold? That's what they're comparing here right now that we have land as oil there in Azerbaijan or in Iran or in Libya. No, Your Honor, they're running out of oil. We have to have the earth endless, like the world and like the Lord. And because of that, the Gospels of Matthew are forbidden to sell land as well as in our Constitution. So let's shake it up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u109	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u110	I'm done. Thank you. At first we predicted to do the listening with you, let's do the listening first, then let's see what we have, let's do the cadastral, then the bonnet, then we'll see who has it. And let us be told by the Security Service, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, everyone, who has the land now, who has passed the law, and then we will adopt a law that will protect the land and value whoever works on it and ensure the eternity of the Ukrainian people.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u111	One minute, Zarubinsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u112	Thank you. As I pushed away from what Yuri Karmazin said, I wanted to do this analogy. It is clear that the land in Ukraine does not become oil in Azerbaijan, but if the land in Ukraine did not become drugs in Colombia, all these processes are taking place. And to be serious, it's good that this debate is happening, because in the early 1990s, when the market was a so-called cluster, and more specifically, the theft of large businesses, there was no such discussion. And today many of our people, who are critical enough against corruption and so on, were taken for pennies in the early 1990s, and often not for money by huge businesses, including Kiev, but today they are fighters against corruption. How good it would be to have such a discussion. And one more moment, we're missing an important problem that today's situation should not remain the way it is. Because you know how the colgs were, what happened to them. Such a phrase is free of charge.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u113	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u114	Such a phrase is free of charge that even in the very poor and impoverished farm there is no such thing as for the head of the farm to have something to eat good with his family. Thus, the situation of such landowners of unregulated, unlegalized, who are actually ruling over peasants today is not going to happen. The conclusion is very simple: the State Land Bank. If a person wants to sell his pie, only at a high market price to the State Land Bank, and he only wants to sell it to those who.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u115	Easy, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u116	Thank you. Thank you, Reverend Adam Ivanovich! I'm a supporter of the market economy and private property. But definitely against the sale of land. I want to support all those who speak out of this high rostrum and deny the sale of land. This is the biggest crime the government will commit -- it's just a crime of the century, like privatization, when people were given vouchers, and tens of families got billions and now they're getting rich when millions are living. It will be a crime before the Ukrainian people forever. Earth is the only wealth left in humans today. And to sell it is to take away the future of our country, the future of our generations, our descendants. You can't do that categorically. And today, it is not the Land Sales Law that needs to be considered in the Hall, but the Land Rental Act, so that grandparents can receive a decent rent, not sexual rot, which chickens do not eat. The cadastre law, which will allow for the establishment of whose land is Kalitchin or the same officers who do not? That's what power and the President and the Prime Minister should be doing, not selling land.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u117	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u118	Thank you. This is definitely illegal, it is a crime against the Ukrainian people, and anyone who pushes a button in this room for sale of land must remember that he commits a crime in front of the next generation of Ukrainians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u119	Yes, thank you, the discussion is over. Despite the fact that we had two in favour, two in favor, and some factions took advantage of the right to speak, they were all "against". I'm voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of Bill 2143-1 on the land market. The authors there, quite a number of national deputies, Sulkowski, Bebelzenko, Sigal, Tereshuk, Tkak, Timoshenko. I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:48:22]] For-0 So factions have nothing to show for it. Bill number 2143-2, author Ivan Hare. I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:48:50]] For the John Alexanderovich has three supporters with him. Yes, the bill is rejected. A draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the introduction of the principle of State registration of legal persons on the basis of model status is under consideration. Registration numbers 8146, 8146-1, this is both the government's bill and Xenia's bill. We can do it in a reduced procedure. I'm making a proposal to deal with these issues with a reduced procedure. I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:49:52]] For 199 Supported. Please, from Kabmin, Deputy Head of the State Committee on Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship, Svishchev Svetlana Ivanovna, 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u120	Dear National Deputies! Dear Chairman! As you know, a natural person or a business entity must undergo a registration procedure in order to start its entrepreneurial activities. If today’s registration procedure takes a very short time, in fact during the day it is possible to register, the preparation of documents takes a very long time. The host also spends some money preparing these documents. And in order to simplify this procedure, to shorten the deadline for the preparation of documents, as well as to help save some of the costs of the host subject, this bill is actually and is now being sent to you for consideration. The draft law proposes that operators be given the opportunity to start their activities on the basis of a model statute that regulates their legal status, rights and duties, as well as to regulate relations related to the creation, management and economic activity of such persons. In connection with this draft law, it is envisaged to introduce the possibility of a state registration, both on the basis of a model statute and on the basis of the regulations that are in force today. The Model Statute is a legal act approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine for the creation and operation of legal persons, relevant organisational and legal rules governing and establishing the rules established by law governing the legal status, rights, duties and relations relating to the creation, administration and economic activity of the relevant legal persons. The introduction of the Model Statute is proposed by supplementing the Civil Code and the Master Code, as well as the laws of Ukraine on economic societies, on stock companies, on the state registration of legal and natural persons, entrepreneurs with standards that will allow the use of such statutes by operators in the process of creating and implementing their activities. The existence of a unified document.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u121	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u122	which will be a model statute will speed up the registration process considerably. Thank you for your attention and for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u123	Thank you. Xenia Mikhailovna Leapina, please. And from the committee to prepare for the Royal.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u124	Thank you, fellows of honor! Xenia Lapina, Party "For Ukraine!".. The very idea of a reference to a model statute is, well, normal, although I wouldn't exaggerate its meaning for deregulation. What's the normality of this idea, is that today the vast majority of small businesses simply copy some of the typical statutes in the books and just approve them accordingly, and they become statutes for such enterprises. The idea of making life easier for these businesses and not forcing them to simply mechanically copy these, someone's prepared statutes or not to hire a legal company, is smart. Yet, as always, everything is in detail. My alternative bill suggests not to introduce the concept of "model statute" but to introduce the concept of "standard installation document", not to cancel the installation by which the enterprise is created, but to allow this installation act to establish separate positions by reference to this default installation document. These standard installation documents are approved by the appropriate authority and are placed in open use on the site of a special authorized authority. So we make life easier for an enterprise, but at the same time we don't give up the act, the corresponding act of establishment, which is behind the enterprise. And I also point out that, in my version, an enterprise can actually choose the parts of this set-up document that fit their interests and their ideas of starting an enterprise, rather than just clicking on a whole statute that is somewhere in the law. And this is much closer to understanding today and to today's desire for businesses, because even a small enterprise can be different from each other. One of them.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u125	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u126	I'm done. One may have a single governing body, and the other may have a collegiate body. And these are different statutes. So I think my bill in this sense is much more suited to the needs and interests of the economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u127	Thank you. Natalia Kraljevska is head of the committee, please. What's the position?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u128	Dear colleagues! Dear Adam Ivanovich! The proposed two bills have a common objective of simplifying the registration of legal persons by means of model founding documents, i.e. facilitating the process of starting a business and doing business. First of all, small business. You are aware that, on the basis of the ease of setting up the business, Ukraine ranks 145 of the 183 countries in the World Bank. This relates in particular to the difficult, lengthy, complicated registration procedure and the process of eliminating the legal person. So today, we have begun the first stage, the stage of consideration of the simplification of the registration procedure of the legal person. You know that the writing of the founding documents in our country is not only not simple but also costly enough, and the existing legislative requirements, along with the founding documents, carry a large number of provisions. The registration procedure requires many copies of the statutes, notary assurances. It is also known that a large part of these provisions are simply rewritten by the founders of the law by the founders of the law as a word in the statute, without change. The Industrial Regulatory Policy and Enterprise Committee therefore found the adoption of the amendments contained in the bill to be useful and timely. Clearly, this bill requires substantial elaboration, so we can set up a working group by decision of the committee and propose Bill 8146 to adopt as a basis draft 8146 to be taken into account in draft 8146 in preparation for second reading. Also take into account the comments of the Scientific and Expert Office, which are very important today. I think that the second reading can be further developed. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u129	Thank you. Shall we discuss it? Besides Klukkowski and Voropeyeev, others do not insist? Then please, Klukkowski. After him, he's in Europe. I'm going to continue for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u130	Dear colleagues, I understand the need for our conditions, the conditions for fighting corruption, the conditions for bureaucratizing the registration system of business entities, and simplifying their lives. However, I would like us to think not only of good intentions but of the legal means that we want to do so. Let's think about it. The Cabinet of Ministers approves something model -- I don't know what that word for a normative act means -- a statute. Thus, this statute becomes a normative act required for execution, for it is a decree of the Cabinet of Ministers. So no one has the right to deviate from it, otherwise it's not a normative act, it's a filk's letter. And now for the second aspect. A legal person of private law is therefore different from a legal person of public law, acting on the basis of acts adopted by the founders themselves, not by the Cabinet of Ministers. So assuming that a legal person of private law is acting on the basis of a statute approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, well, there is just complete legal absurdity. It can't be in principle, it's a violation of the very principles of civil law and free enterprise. So I think that the option offered by the Cabinet of Ministers simply does not withstand criticism from the point of view of the doctrine of civil law. That's why I'm offering not to support him. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u131	Please, Voropeyev.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u132	Dear colleagues, I would like to agree with the words of my colleague Xenia Lapina. In fact, sometimes healthy ideas, healthy thoughts, they are. They've got these little lines in their crotch that are called: specific words, commas, separate moves and so on. If you look at this law, it's as if it's okay. It is not a model charter binding on stockholder societies, there or the CCW. Well, in some places instead of "or" they put a comma and it's already becoming mandatory, a model charter. And society, regardless of the form in which they will be created, will be obliged not only to comply with its statute but also to comply with its model statute. This is particularly true of the executive. That's the norm, and there's a number of other articles -- that's the rule, that's the first. It's not something you can't allow. I don't agree with ours. Other speakers here say that foreign investors cannot come to us because, if you see them, they need a model statute that will be approved by the Cabinet of Ministers, it is wrong. They'll write their statutes, of course, and they'll be afraid to come here to work on a model statute that they won't write, they won't prepare. If this law is to be passed, one of them is to be adopted only on first reading, by no means in the final form. And I wanted to say the last word. Attempts have been made by various government officials recently to impose additional duties. the creation of society itself. For example, the Civil Code of Ukraine states that when a limited share of society is separated, it is not necessary to certify the treaty in a notary manner. On one occasion, the Entrepreneurship Committee explained that they had a different view from the Civil Code and that a notary treaty should be certified and would not accept documents on registration without it. They convinced them, and they canceled their explanation.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u133	Finish because it's a different opera.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u134	Now they are re-imposing a mandatory notary certificate of treaties in this law, which is wrong.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u135	Let's fix it. Question completed. I stand on the committee's proposal to adopt, as a basis in the first reading of Bill No. 8146 on amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts on the introduction of the principle of state registration of legal persons on the basis of a model statute. Please vote. [[12:02:28]] For 235 Decision taken. I ask the committee, in preparing for the second reading, to take into account its decision, in which you talk about taking positive points into account when preparing for the second one in the Liapina bill. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose to support the proposal that we now consider the 2011 Treasury Regulation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] And it's been handed out a long time, and now the committee head is going to report. And in "Ukrainian Truth," I think we read it yesterday. [[12:03:17]] For 239. Thank you. There's a proposal for a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[12:03:36]] For 243 Supported. Please, Makeyenko, two minutes, Vladimir Volodymyrovich, head of the Committee on Rules, MP ethics and the activities of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u136	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! According to article 85, part one, paragraph 35, of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine approves the funds of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Ukraine's State Budget 2011 approved expenditure for the execution of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's 924 million 359.8 thousand dollars, including a total fund of 849 million 550.8 thousand dollars, after a special 74 million 809 thousand dollars. At a meeting of the Committee on Rules, Deputy Ethics and Security of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 2 March this year, a project of funds from the Supreme Council of Ukraine for 2011 prepared by the Office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine within the expenditure approved by the State Budget for 2011. And it was decided to support it and bring it to the consideration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. A draft of the appropriate decision is given to you. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u137	Thank you. Dear colleagues, shall we discuss it? If you want to share in the discussion, raise your hand. From the faction of our Ukraine, there are no others, yes. Who from the faction of "Our Ukraine" will speak? Who's your senior? Carmazine? Please, Carmazin, please. Yuri Anatolyovich, I went on for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u138	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Adam Ivanovich, you have placed everything in order of expulsion. Cocorys of the Supreme Council when there are no media in the hall. One. Cocorys of the Supreme Council, when there is no decision and conclusion of the Committee on Budgets. Is that okay, Adam Ivanovich? It's obviously not normal. Cocorys of the Supreme Council for 2011, when we don't have a report on the 2010 Corrosus execution. Let's take a look first and listen to the 2010 execution of the corrosive. I want to know. Because I want to be honest and honest with my constituents that I've never taken a car before, and I haven't spent any money. So I want to know where they're spending, how they're redistributing. That's why I also want to know, because I have assistant consultants, as they do in many national deputies today. Are we raising their minimum wage or not? Do we index them or don't we index them? We will pay them concretely, or we will not pay them, as in Ukraine today. In all of Ukraine, there have been three months of interruptions in the payment of specified ones. That's not funny, Your Honor. It's tragic. Instead of obtaining St. Stanislav’s orders and adding to the masonry, the Prime Minister would have to deal with these matters. And today, we need government officials from Minfin to sit here to explain why there is no guarantee today of the right to freedom of speech through radio broadcasts by sessions of the Supreme Council. There's no such thing, and it's being ruled out now. I'm talking to Mikaly Tomenko: why this is happening.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u139	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues! It is unfortunate that such a professional lawyer and a member of parliament should explain the known truths. We're not confirming anything with you. As far as the budget committee and the Cabinet of Ministers are concerned, when the State Budget Act 2011 was approved, we are with you, including the approval of expenditure on the Supreme Council, and we have placed a dot. The Special Committee, which is the Committee on Rules, MPs and the activities of the Supreme Council, is based on the State Budget Act and, in accordance with the law, allocates expenses and directs them to the activities of the Supreme Council. The other one. Third. Each national deputy pays his assistant consultants on his own, and I'm glad, Yuri Anatoliyevich, that you have the opportunity to send a specific vacation, increase the population and pay them a specific vacation. I'm betting on the vote to adopt the 2011 "About the Treasury of the Supreme Council of Ukraine". [[Registration number 8250]] Please vote. [[12:09:26]] For 249 Thank you. It's been decided. A break of up to 12 hours is announced for 40 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u140	Dear colleagues, please prepare for fruitful work. According to established tradition, about 12 hours and 30 minutes after the first break, we are considering the election and release of judges. Please consider the draft Decree 8235 and the following. I invite the Chief of the High Qualifying Commission of Judges Igor Leonovich Samsin to the rostrum. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u141	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! According to article 76, part 3, of the Ukrainian Law on the Judiciary and Status of Judges, the Supreme Qualifications Commission of Judges of Ukraine carried out a review of compliance by candidates for judicial office with the requirements of article 127 of the Constitution of Ukraine, articles 53, 64 of the Act, as well as a review of the application of citizens, public organisations, enterprises, institutions, organizations of all forms of property, public authorities and local self-government authorities for the activities of candidates for the posts of judges who came to the Higher Qualification Commission of Judges of Ukraine on a stand-by basis during the Commission's consideration of the question of recommending them to serve as judges on an indefinite basis. According to article 85, part one, part one, article 128 of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 78 of the Ukrainian Law on the judiciary and the status of judges, the submission of the Supreme Qualifications Commission of judges of Ukraine and its decision to recommend candidates for the appointment of judges on an indefinite basis. The following draft regulations are proposed for your consideration. Draft Decision on the Election of Judges. [[No. 8235]] Choose judges on an untimely basis: The Pavlovgrad District Court of the Dnipropetrov Region of Olefirenko Natalija Anatoliyevna; The Mikitov District Court of Gorlovka, Donetsk district of Kaliusz Olen Valerievna; Central-City District Court of Gorlovka Donetsk Region of Rumilov Natalija Mikolayevna; The Illchid District Court of Mariupol, Donetsk, Maltsev Eugenyevna; Mashov District Court of Poltava District Kravec Svetlana Volodymyrovna; Krukovi District Court of Kremenchuk Poltavsk Region Sergey Ivanovich; Lanovecki District Court of Ternopil district of Sarnovsky Vasil Jaroslavovich; The Economic Court of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea Ishenko Irina Anatoliyevna; the Economic Court of the Zaporozhye district of Corsun Vitali Leonidovich; The economic court of the Lviv district of Brezak Natalia Evgenynowna, Ivanchuk Svetlana Volodymyrna. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u142	Dear colleagues, there were no comments before the candidates for the National Deputies. Therefore, I have reason to believe that judgement 8235 should be adopted on an indefinite basis. Please vote. [[12:44:30]] For 269 It's been decided. Please, let's go.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u143	Draft Decision on the Election of Judges. [[No. 8235-1]] To elect judges previously elected without delay in the positions of judges: The Supreme Economic Court of Ukraine, Euscikova Aleksy Aleksandrovitch; the Court of Appeal of the Donetsk Region of Bezruenko, Julius Alexandrovna, Gusjevo Viktor Volodymyrovich, Kurak's Victoria Valentinovna, Shihrt Fedor Sergiyovich; the Court of Appeal of the Bogotá Region of Kočetava Leonida Glibovic; the Court of Appeal of the Shabelnik district of Kharkiv Sergey Kuzmić; The Court of Appeal of Kyiv Borisov Olen Vasilovna Regarding Judge Vasili’s Margarita Anatoliyevna, she was warned, but she did not appear properly today. The reason we don't know yet. Hill of Irina Mikhaylovna, Music of Svetlana Grigorovna, Sitajlo Olena Mikolayovna, Falcon Victoria Vejacheslavovna, Fritz Tetjana Viktorovna, Jurdig Olga Stepanovna; Dnipropetrov's Administrative Court of Appeal Bogdanek Igor Juriyovich. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u144	Then, Igor Leonovich, except for Vasilyev, and in the absence of Vassiliev, we cannot vote under the Courtship Act. Then, dear colleagues, I put to the vote a bill under number 8235-1 on the election of judges on an indefinite basis, with the exception of Vasily’s Margarita Anatoly’s Court of Appeal of Kiev in the absence of her. Please vote. [[12:46:39]] For 280 It's been decided. Please, 8235-2.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u145	To elect judges who were previously elected on an open-ended basis as judges: the Court of Appeal of the Luhansk Region of Matthew Olga Bronislavna; Masenka Denis Evgenovich; the Court of Appeal of the Mikolai District of Yamkov Oksana Alexandrovna; the Court of Appeal of the Kharkov district of Pletnów Vladimir Vasilovich; the Court of Appeal of Kiev, Unit of Valery Mikhailovich; Zitomir's Administrative Court of Appeal, Macký Evgen Mikolaiovich, Ohrimchuk Irina Grigorovna; Lviv’s Administrative Court of Appeal, Gulak Vasil Vasilovich. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u146	Yes, the honourable colleagues, the remarks to this decision, had not been made before this project. I'm voting on the adoption of Order 8235-2 on the selection of judges on an untimely basis. Please vote. [[12:46:43]] 8235-2 Draft Decision on the Election of Judges [[12:47:57]] For 292 It's been decided.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u147	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u148	Thank you. Dear colleagues, on the first part of our question about the election of judges, we have decided on the question of liberation. Head of the Council of Justice, Koleschenko Volodymir Mikolajovic, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u149	Good afternoon! Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! The Supreme Council of Justice at its meeting on 1 March this year, in accordance with articles 126-131 of the Constitution of Ukraine, articles 100, 109 of the Law of Ukraine on the Judiciary and the Status of Judges, article 31 of the Law of Ukraine on the Supreme Council of Justice, reviewed the materials on the dismissal of judges under general circumstances and decided to submit them accordingly to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The judges find that their actual will, foreign influence, or coercion in their decision to release is not established. The Supreme Council of Justice proposes that the judges be released. Draft Decision on the release of judges. [[No. 8236]] Dismissed from the positions of judges: Admission of Vasil Mikolaiovich, Judge of the Court of Appeal of Zaporez in connection with the application for resignation; The Sokirian District Court of the Czernovetsk district of Siwak Vladimir Ivanovich is unable to exercise his health authority, and the appropriate information is available. Please support the draft of this Order.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u150	I'm putting to the vote draft Order 8236 on the release of judges. Please vote. [[12:49:46]] For 277 Please accept the following.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u151	Thank you. Project Order 8236-1 on the release of judges. According to article 126, part six, of the Constitution of Ukraine, the release of Willuk Mikola Pavlovich from office as judge of the Gorokhiv District Court of Volin County in connection with the acquisition of legal force by an arraignment against him. All of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u152	Yes, there are no questions, of course. I am voting on the draft Order 8236-1 on the release of Judge Willuk Mikoli Pavlovich in connection with the acquisition of legal force by an indictment against him. Please vote. [[12:50:43]] For 266 It's an order. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, let's welcome the judges you've elected on an untimely basis today and wish them to appear in the session hall or draft decrees on them on just one issue: promotion in office. [[Applause]] Please, Filipenko microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u153	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Vladimir Mikolaiovich Kolesnichenko, I also ask you to stay because this is an important question. Dear colleagues! Dear Chairman! Last Thursday, two more judges were asked about the release of the Supreme Council, namely, the judges of the Borispil District Court of Bondarenko and Zavirucha. The head of the Supreme Council, personally last plenary Thursday, commissioned a stenographer to prepare for the release of these judges and to bring them to a meeting today. Regrettably, the Supreme Council’s apparatus, some of its employees, has been ignored by the Head of the Supreme Council, perhaps intentionally, perhaps unintentionally. I think it's deliberate, because I don't want to bring a fourth month to the Supreme Council of Judges, one of which robbed the state budget for 9 million dollars, and the other, who sold out all the land in the Borispil district, but didn't bring it in, that's to cover it up. To my profound belief that this is now not merely ignoring the demands of the Head of the Supreme Council, but actually sabotaging the activities of the Constitutional Body when the Supreme Council cannot perform its constitutional function of releasing or appointing judges. In this regard.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u154	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u155	In this regard, I believe that this is not my problem or my wish or the wish of the Head of the Supreme Council to bring them to meetings, this should be made in connection with the fact that the reputation of the two constitutional bodies – the High Council of Justice and the Supreme Council of Ukraine – is at stake. If the employees of the apparatus are to blame, they must answer. In this regard, I appeal to the Head of the Supreme Council for an official parliamentary request to investigate such negligence. And you, Adam Ivanovich, I'm just doing it again.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u156	Thank you. Dear colleagues, it's all right, but only half, unfortunately. Including you, you were one of those who actively promoted the law, the new Law on the judiciary. And we did what we sometimes reap now and then. I mean, unfortunately, the entire Justice Committee has been moved from preparing these issues to the Supreme Council's apparatus, which is, to my deep conviction, a violation of the Constitution, but a law so prescribed. So let's work this out. Since there are no such legislative acts prepared today, of course I can't put them in place, but we'll figure it out. I think we'll get to that in the next plenary weeks. Thank you, Volodymyr Mikolaiovich. Draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the establishment of the principle of the conduct of business by private law entities without the application of seals. [[Registration number 8215]] Can we look at it in a nutshell? Who's in favour, please vote. [[12:54:28]] For 196 Supported. Reported Deputy Minister of Economy Sukhomlin Alexander Anatoliyovich. Get ready for King's Landing. Please, Alexander Anatolyevich, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u157	Good afternoon, Reverend Adam Ivanovich, good afternoon, distinguished national MPs! You are considering a draft Ukrainian Law amending some Ukrainian legislation on the establishment of the principle of the conduct of business by private entities without the application of seals. The main purpose of the draft of this law is to replace the mandatory use of the seal by legal persons of a private right to use it voluntarily, since operators may have different aspects of the implementation of the business that may not necessarily require the sealing of the document. To this end, the bill amends 37 valid legislative acts of Ukraine, which aim to remove from them provisions on the need for printing or the use of seals by legal persons of private law. In doing so, changes to the Ukrainian Code of Lordship and other legislative acts provide for the possibility of legal persons applying seals that are made without obtaining documents of a permissive nature. The change in the sealing requirement will reduce the time to initiate entrepreneurial activities from 27 to 20 days. This, in turn, will allow Ukraine to improve its place in the World Bank rating survey and the ease of doing business at an 8-position opening rate, from 118th place in 2011 to 110th place in 2012 among 183 countries surveyed by the World Bank. In most countries of Europe, the SND needs to be printed. [[Other than Ukraine, Azerbaijan and Russia]] [[it's helpful.]] Considering that the draft law will allow time and material costs to be reduced by private-law subjects when initiating entrepreneurship, please accept it as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u158	Thank you. Please, Natalia Yuriovna, head of the Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u159	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! The purpose of the bill is to introduce the principle of non-requirement of the use of the press in the business activities of private entities. I repeat, it is proposed that the mandatory use of the press be abolished. print by legal entities, thereby simplifying and simplifying the business process. It is known that in most CIS countries and in countries other than Ukraine, Azerbaijan and Russia, the press is not needed for business. And you and I understand that, in fact, the press is not required to do business, it is used only to certify documents, not to confirm the facts. You will also agree with me that the mandatory use of the press creates artificial barriers to the activities of legal persons, requires additional spending, time and money. For example, a certain amount of time and blackmail on the part of the entity is taken away from obtaining permission to use the press from the internal affairs authorities. It is proposed that the bill amend existing legislation, remove the rules that require the printing of private legal entities, i.e. introduce the principle of non-printing economic activity. The adoption of the bill would significantly reduce registration costs. In the view of the Committee on Industrial, Regulatory Policy and Enterprise, the rules set out in the bill are useful and timely. The Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council proposes to return the draft to the finalization. We propose to take into account the comments of the scientific and expert management, and to finalize the draft for second reading, and to adopt the European rules for entrepreneurship in Ukraine. We propose to adopt the bill as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u160	Thank you. Is there a need to discuss? Yeah, now, now. So, except for two. There's more. Please sign up. Rubinsky didn't get here, but he'll be here in a minute. Pussy, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u161	I would like to give the floor to my colleague, Voropaev.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u162	Please, Voropeyev Yuri Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u163	Dear colleagues, look what's going on. Unfortunately, the country has not yet overcome such a shameful phenomenon as corruption and has not overcome such a shameful phenomenon as raiding. Now that there's a seal, and it's mandatory, what should a raider do? It must be given control and must be stamped. Why? To then come to the bank, open your account in your name, in the name of your leader, and manage them. Without that, he can't do anything. Now he has to do what he has to do: come to the police, say the seal is lost or something else to come up with. And after that, there's a special period for the seal to be searched for. And then, after that, he'll have a new seal. I mean, he says he shows up, he gets in the way, he has to get out of the shadows. Until we've won the race, we can't do that in any way. Because the law not only repeals the obligation of the press, it also abolishes the registration of it in the authoritarian authorities, in the militia. That means that I'm going to get a court decision today somewhere in Djankoé or somewhere else about the appointment of my principal, I'm going to print it in the kitchen to that director, and it's going to be mandatory for businesses under that law. So all we have to do is get closer, not smaller, it's not time for this law to come. Let's postpone its consideration. Let's get him to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u164	Yes, thank you, Yuri Mikolaiovich. I'm glad you're optimistic that we're going to fight back. Stone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u165	Thank you. Thank you. A group called Reforms for the Future. Dear colleagues, well, really, this bill is the next piece of evidence that we're not standing still, there's a lot of new technology right now. You know, there's, let's say, if we talk about signatures, there's an electronic signature, there's an electronic signature, there's an electronic signature, there's an electronic signature, there's an electronic signature, there's an electronic signature, and there's an archaic thing that can go away from such archaics. Such examples and practices are found in the advanced lands of the world. That's why we support the innovations proposed by this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u166	Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u167	Yuri Carmazin. The Party of Motherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen, I really don't understand why we have on the bill when there's the signature of "Prime Minister Mikola Azarov" there's no sign of "Shevalier," well, I think it would be beautiful, beautiful -- "Shevalier." The Order of Stanislav offers this opportunity: Shevalier, the title is, accepted, wear, please, if anyone accepts. I'm not talking to you, I'm talking to you. I'm talking about the subject of the bill. So, I called this bill for myself, "To make things easier." And I absolutely agree with my colleague Voropayev, who said yes, we need to remove the barrier that stands. Not just take the seal away, but report to the police everywhere. I think it's extremely interesting from a scientific point of view, in terms of the analysis of this bill, that it might be the conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. It proposed slightly different forms, but it was strongly opposed to the law’s being drafted. Moreover, they came to the same conclusion that I had come to, and my colleague Voropeyel, as I now heard him, that simply canceling the obligation to apply seals without replacing them with other mechanisms to confirm the authenticity of documents could lead to an increase in civil-economic delinquency. They even gave an example of article 152 of the Civil Code of Kazakhstan and proposed an option that could be written in part two of article 207: "The law or agreement of the parties may provide for the consolidation of the right to be done by a legal person, the seal of that person and the consequences of non-compliance." So I think it's a bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u168	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u169	I think that this bill is currently a raw bill that does not meet the requirements of Ukraine, and we cannot today, unfortunately, compare it to those European states where there is such a European practice, because there is a number.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u170	Thank you. Let's dry it out if it's dry. Sharov gives the word to Zarubinski, please, for one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u171	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Oleg Zarubinski, People’s Party Dear colleagues, does anyone here think that a security guard or a security guard may be a presence or a lack of sealing? Well, that's funny! It is not because there is a seal or not, but when there are people and legal persons who, at the expense of raiding, conduct their economic activities and get used to it. So in this case, the presence or absence of a seal does not have any effect on the Raider schematics. On the other hand, I think that everyone present was a border and not only in terms of the availability of seals for legal persons, you have seen beautifully the laughter or misunderstanding that is, including in the countries of the European Union, before we require or require earlier that we be sealed on the documents. There's no such thing in the world, in a civilized world. Moreover, this seal can be made in any cooperative and then try to prove through the court that it is, as they say, autochthonous or not autochthonous. It seems to me that any bill that contributes to deregulation and reduction from this bureaucratic one.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u172	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u173	The bureaucratic press for business, for legal persons, needs to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u174	Thank you. The question is closed. Other factions don't insist? I am voting on the proposal for adoption as a basis for the first reading of the draft Law amending some Ukrainian legislation on the establishment of the principle of private law entities conducting business without the application of seals. Please vote. [[13:06:58]] For the 15th. Please tell me what to do? The seal is or does not exist. Who's in favour of sending a bill for redrafting, please vote. [[13:07:26]] For 229 And they're doing the right thing because there's nothing to work on. Yes, the bill is aimed at furthering the Cabinet of Ministers. We are considering Bill No. 8006 – Draft Law on Amendments to the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine. [[on the introduction of the accused and the defence counsel to criminal proceedings]] Short cut? I'd like to make a statement. [[13:08:10]] For 210 Supported. Please, Comrade Caplienko Vladimir Volodymyrovich. Get ready, Moses.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u175	Dear colleagues, distinguished national MPs! Vladimir Caplienko, MP for the Future. Bill 8006 proposes to amend the Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code by amending part six and supplementing part seven of article 218, which refers to the announcement of the accused of the completion of the investigation and the presentation of the case material. In particular, part six, we suggest that we expand the interpretation, make such an understanding, such as intelligent periods of deliberation or familiarity with criminal material. And part seven, which provides that in the event of delay in familiarizing the defendant with the material or his guardian with the consent of the prosecutor or the prosecutor himself has the right to bring the prosecution to justice at the place where the court is conducting the investigation, the judge may, by his decision, determine the final term during which the accused and his guardian must be familiar with the material of the case and declare the problem. The bill itself solves the basic issues. The first question is a question that concerns practical rather than a declaration of equality between the parties in criminal and procedural legislation. I would like to remind you that there are a number of citizens or persons who have suffered as a result of this crime, apart from the two sides of the criminal investigation and the accused. And prolonged deliberation of this criminal case leads to the deprivation of their rights to redress damages as soon as possible. The other one. It is a failure to avoid criminal responsibility for crimes committed and the negative effects of property on the victims. Third. This is a minimization of the impact of such abuses on the effectiveness of the law enforcement system of public authorities. And last of all, it's to strengthen the authority of the court as an arbitrator in such a conflict situation, when the first party is delaying the transfer of a criminal case to court, and the other side can't influence it in any way. I want to remind you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u176	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u177	More than half a million criminal cases are being dealt with throughout the country today. I ask you to consider this bill and vote for it, take the basis and vote in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u178	Please, the head of the committee's subcommittee on legislative security, the law enforcement activities of Vladimir Romanovich Moysik.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u179	Vladimir Moses, Party "For Ukraine!".. Dear colleagues, national MPs! Dear Adam Ivanovich! What is involved in this bill? Ukraine's Code of Criminal Procedure stipulates that the accused and his guardian cannot be limited to the time limit for the examination of the material of the case. The Criminal Procedure Code and the Orders of the Plenary of the Supreme Court of Ukraine explain that, in any event, if the accused is not familiar with the material of the case, the verdict in the case is overturned. What does the author propose? First of all, setting reasonable lines -- this is an evaluation concept -- to get to know the material of the case. If, in the opinion of the investigator, these terms are no longer reasonable, he or she writes to the court himself or at the prosecutor’s request to set a limit on the time limit for getting to know the material of the case. And then, if the accused has not come to know him, he is considered to have come to know him. Thus, there are no respected colleagues in Russia, and the Russian codex allows for a copy of the entire criminal case, and this is the responsibility of the defendant to give the accused a complete copy of the case. And one more thing, before this project, is to change article 217, where both the victim and his representative are familiar with it, the Law on Lawyers, the Law on Militia. But most importantly, my dear colleagues, I would like to speak to the coalition yesterday on our committee on law enforcement and Yuri Volodymyrovich Miroshnichenko to listen to three laws from the government coalition. The first is the President's veto to repeal the law that you and I have taken on the initiative of the government to raise a five-year sentence when a person can be arrested, by the President of the veto.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u180	Vladimir Romanovich, these are other laws when we talk about them, we'll tell you. Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u181	Peacocks. Today, we limit the right to familiarize ourselves with the material of the matter. Yesterday, coalition representatives offered to reinstate the death penalty in Ukraine. Let's stop at least on this path. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u182	Anyone who wants to participate in the discussion, please sign up. Ivan Vernidubov, faction of the Party of the Regions, followed by Paris.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u183	Thank you. Honourable national MPs, one of the ways and means of perpetuating the investigation, as well as the general authority, are unfortunately and distinctly humane articles of the Criminal Procedure Code, such as ensuring that the principle of presumption of innocence is realized for all citizens who are drawn to criminal responsibility. In the case of Timoshenko, accused of criminal offences, the entire country sees her delaying the investigation, exploiting such humane defenses, leading to the absence of transparent open criminal proceedings in her case. He gets to know the matter when he wants to, reads as much as he wants. It has now taken a long way to travel to Europe, and through these media outlets it is pressing for investigation, requiring such a trip, although the investigation is usually under way. The lawyer says he can only get to know the case in the next month. What makes such privileges incomprehensible is that an investigation or a resort. So I welcome the authors with the idea, with the bill, it's necessary, we're going to write it down in this way, and we're going to shorten it a little bit during the investigation. I propose to support the bill and accept it in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u184	A boy named Andrew.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u185	Parly Andrew, please pass the word to Vladimir Moisik, group "For Ukraine!"..
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u186	Vladimir Moses, prepare Bondarenko Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u187	Vladimir Moses, Party "For Ukraine!".. Dear colleagues! I did not purposely comment on the passage of this bill. The committee raised the question that the bill was ordered personally against Julia Timoshenko. The fact that you've raised this subject, Your Honor's colleagues from the Party of Regions, is that I want to confirm to you today that there is no justification in the explanatory note for the investigation, the prosecution's practice or the court's practice, where there would be problems in this matter. That's the first one. The other one. I led a working group on the Criminal Procedure Code, where there were all representatives of the fourth call, there was no question. The chairman of our committee, on legislative and law enforcement issues, is part of the working group created by President Janukovic of Ukraine, the new Criminal Procedure Code, which does not raise this question. So if you've asked this question yourself, you can see which bill and who you've prepared it for. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u188	Bondarenko Volodymir. You cannot pass a word after a speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u189	Please pass the word to Sweden Victor.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u190	I'm sorry, didn't I hear? Sweden? Please, it's a Sweden microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u191	Dear colleagues! Dear Adam Ivanovich! We're already used to the fact that the Party of Regions, if they don't have something, they go to the usual thing -- they change the laws. Initially, they changed the law under which they formed a coalition and government in an unconstitutional way. Then they changed the law in order to increase the President's authority by a decision of the Constitutional Court. Now they see that Timoshenko's case is falling apart, so they've decided to change the Criminal Procedure Act and deprive Timoshenko of his right to defend himself. Dear colleagues, yesterday when we discussed this issue on the committee, we immediately pointed out that this law is exclusive against Julia Timoshenko. So they want to deprive her of the constitutional right to know what she's being accused of. And all of these statements about Julia Timoshenko not appearing there or delaying consideration, learning about the material in the matter is not true, and this is not true. Tymoshenko is a very conscientious person and is familiar with the material of the matter. But that's not what this is about. Dear colleagues, I'd like to advise you to make some other changes to the criminal procedure law in this article, which is where the first part still exists, it provides that the defendant and the defense attorney have the right to know the materials of the case. I think it would be appropriate for you to make such a change in the Criminal Procedure Code that the defendant and the accused, apart from Jury Timoshenko, have the right to continue with the text. [[Applause]] I believe that this law is directed against the constitutional rights and freedoms of citizens. And bear in mind, any one.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u192	Dear colleagues! There's Kamchatno one minute. Chaplain? Please, Chaplain. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u193	Dear colleagues, you know, I see that the talk on this bill flows to the political element. I wanted to remind you that part seven provides for an appeal against the court's ruling because of the deadlines. And we looked at it on the committee yesterday. So you don't have to speculate on that. You can clearly see that even this judgment of a court can be charged. And the second. Today, it has been said that there is no such experience, and there is no basis for such a decision. So I would like to remind you that in the Russian Federation there is also a possibility for a court to set a time limit for an introduction. Who doesn't know that, please get acquainted with legislation. Or let's take, for example, Poland. According to the Polish Code, the investigating body simply informs the suspect or his guardian of the deadline. That's why. Dear colleagues, I'd like you to remove your politics and look directly into your eyes. There is a third party -- those people who are currently suffering from prolonged periods of property rights and whose rights are also violated in accordance with article 22 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u194	Yes, Your Honor, the discussion is over. I am voting on the adoption as a basis for the first reading of the draft Law on Amendments to the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine. [[on the introduction of the accused and the defence counsel to criminal proceedings]] [[Registration number 8006]] Please vote. [[13:20:50]] For the 250. Copy that. The factions, please. Region Party – 177, Fatherland – 0, Our Ukraine – 1, Communists – 25, Reforms – 19, People's Party – 19, non-fractional – 9. There's no such thing. You have the right to call this attention to the Constitutional Court, that's the first. Second, nothing has been broken, for the law has not yet been passed; it is not yet the law. You can talk about the violation. The only time you can talk about a violation is when it's the law. It's not the law yet. We are considering a draft Act amending some legislative acts to improve the permit system in the field of economic activity and to apply administrative law. [[re-read]] [[Registration number 7413-d]] There's a short cut. Natalia Juryovna supports this. Please vote. [[13:22:15]] For 226 Please, Natalia Yuriovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u195	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! The purpose of the bill is to strengthen the enforcement of legislation with regard to the issuance of permits. That is to say, it is proposed to strengthen the liability of the licensing authorities for violations of the law in the permit documents. You are aware that a mass of violations are being committed during the issuance of the permits. The authorization authorities and public administrators shall, at their discretion, delay the matter and modify its consideration. You understand, of course, that such an opportunity is offered to them today by loopholes in legislation and the lack of responsibility that gives rise to permissiveness. Many rules on the control of the issuance of permits require clarification today. Some issues remained unresolved in the legislative framework at all, such as the question of liability for permissive legislation violations. You also know that imperfect legislation has led to the fact that officials are not afraid of being held responsible for such offences, resulting in an increase in corruption in this area. What is specifically proposed by the bill? First. Amend the Code of Administrative Offences and provide for the responsibility of the licensing authorities if they do not remedy violations in the issuance of permits. Second. Ensure that legislation in the field of the issuance of permits is enforced by means of planned and unplanned verifications of the licensing authorities. The adoption of Bill 7413 would help reduce administrative offences in the issuance of permits and in the work of permits centres. The Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine proposes to adopt the bill as a basis. In the view of the Committee on Industrial, Regulatory Policy and Enterprise, the legislation would be useful and timely. In conclusion.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u196	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u197	You know, we've talked about deregulation all the time. This is a matter of deregulation and not introducing a responsibility at the same time; today, directly, the executive branch, the representatives of the authorization authorities have absolutely no real consequences. We therefore propose Bill 7413 to be adopted as a basis and ask for the support of the Committee's decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u198	Thank you. Are they willing to deny it? Is it? Yeah, except for School, who else? And Carmazin, right? Others don't insist? Then let's write it down. Although the Queen is of your own faction, she made an opinion. There is justice. School. Behind him is Moses.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u199	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. School Andrew, Fatherland faction, Yulia Timoshenko. I would like to point out that, of course, we have to pay the utmost attention, and I think the faction is going to support me in this, and we're going to support this. This bill and this legislative initiative to control not to delay the issuance of permits. This is important and fair. But there are also nuances when permits are given without proper checks to those who need them quickly and inequity. This is first of all not going in separate directions. Not only are there separate ways of doing business, but there are activities that require careful scrutiny. For example, a permit to open coffee shops, a permit to open other food measures, often accompanied by deep violations of the law in part of the granting of permits, that is to say, permission is granted to those who have stressed violations of the law. For example, by privatizing an architectural building that is part of a historical heritage, they demolished all the building’s supporting walls in the basement, and the building really stands on an honest word. And free services give them permission to serve people there. The house could fall on its head at any moment. I can name the address point, this is the city of Lviv, the street of General Cuprenko, 5, the basement floor, an enterprise founded by some of the people who were once members of the Lviv City Council. And there are many such cases. Not one thousand if not ten thousand in Ukraine. In fact, in this bill, I propose that there be an additional responsibility, an increased responsibility for illegal or minor reasons, or a baseless release of a permit to conduct a business. Because, in principle, this situation is problematic and serious enough for Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u200	Vladimir Moses. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u201	Vladimir Moses, Party "For Ukraine!".. Please give the word to Karmazin Yuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u202	Please, Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u203	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen, during the last review of Project 8006, I requested a word in connection with the violation of the Constitution that took place in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In particular, part 3 of article 84 has been violated by you, Mr. Chairman, where it was written: The vote in the meetings is carried out by the national MP himself. You didn't look behind the hall or pretend you weren't watching. In particular, I wanted to make a statement about what was happening, and there was a violation in the adoption of the previous bill of article 22 of the Constitution of Part 3 in the adoption of new laws or in the amendment of existing laws, and it was not possible to narrow the content and scope of existing rights and freedoms. So I turn to those who today, on a case-by-case basis, adopt separate laws to do something on a case-by-case basis. You know, usually that boomerang beats who does it. So I think the time will come, and whoever brought things like this will get it all in the reverse direction. With regard to the bill that was now being proposed, I would like you to know that Adam Ivanovich yesterday, on the Committee on Questions, we have called it beautiful, justice, on the Committee on Justice, considered three judges who have been drawn to criminal responsibility since 2004. Seven years to get bribes. They haven't been released here today. Why are we so selective? Lucenko went out with a dog to walk, grab, plant, because there is a political order. And there's seven years and nothing! And now who's still in charge.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u204	Yuri Anatolyevich, by law!
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u205	I'm on the subject of law, Adam Ivanovich! The violation of the Constitution is always something that can't be allowed. The Royal Laws.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u206	Thank you. You should have talked about the Royal Law, not the previous Law. And I reject your baseless accusations that the presiding officer violated the Constitution. The chairman voted in person. Period. Have a seat. And I urge everyone to vote personally in favour of Bill No.7413-d: to amend some legislation on improving the free system in the field of economic activity and applying administrative law. Please vote. Yuri Anatolyevich, look, I vote in person. [[13:31:11]] For 295 Adopted in the first reading. I'm asking the committee, because this bill has been under review for a long time now, to speed up the consideration for the second reading. Let's go to "Other Readings." A draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine is under consideration. [[establishing administrative responsibility for a breach in the field of national registration]] [[Registration number 7254]] Head of the Committee on Law Enforcement, Shemczuk Viktor Viktorovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u207	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! The Committee of the Supreme Council on Legislative Security has been prepared for a second reading of the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine. [[establishing administrative responsibility for a breach in the field of national registration]] [[Registration number 7254]] The bill proposes to clarify the order in which registration of legal persons and natural persons entrepreneurs are held and to introduce administrative responsibility for the breach of this order. The subject of the legislative initiative was the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. A bill was drafted by the then State Committee on Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship. As stated in the explanatory note to the bill, he was approved by the Ministry of Labour, the Ministry of Economics, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Justice. In addition, the Committee’s letters to the Committee on Legal Protection came from industrial and regulatory policy and entrepreneurship, transport and communications, budget issues that indicated that they supported the bill and recommended that it be accepted as a basis. In preparation for the second reading of the bill, there were 123 proposals, nine of which were taken into account in full, one in editorial and two in part. With regard to the proposals of the National Deputy Wonderful under numbers 7 and 8, they're taken into account, and the fact that there's no sign of it is a technical error. At its meeting, the committee adopted a decision on the adoption of the draft law on second reading and generally as a law. In making decisions, recommending to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of a second-reading bill and generally as a law of Ukraine, members of the committee came out of the fact that he was preparing for a state-level committee, was considered at a meeting of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, had the necessary agreement in the professional ministries and offices, and was therefore important for Ukraine. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u208	Thank you. Dear colleagues, all the adjustments are taken into account, even the amendments made by colleague Carmazin are editorially taken into account. He does not insist on his amendments. So I'm voting on the second reading proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u209	What? It's a key microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u210	Thank you. Dear Adam Ivanovich, Your Honor, here is an amendment to the sixth, which proposes to delete the footnote in the Code of Administrative Offences on what this code refers to as "postage." Such a term is now introduced in the Law on State Registration of Legal Persons and Natural Entrepreneurs. However, this term is also defined by the Postal Liaison Act. And so there are two different notions of mail. Without a footnote in the Code of Administrative Offences, there will be a variation and it will be unclear what kind of term should be used. I'm not saying that two terms for the same concept can't be in Ukrainian legislation, but at least. If there was a footnote, it would be clear what to do. I propose that this amendment be rejected and left with a note.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u211	Thank you. Victor Viktorovich, I think that's a good point. Perhaps, dear colleagues, if we leave a note, we are not the law. Well, it's not gonna get any worse, it's gonna get better. That's why I'm proposing. I'm voting for the sixth amendment. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:36:01]] For -6 Six votes for the sixth amendment, thank you. So once again, I think we're improving the law, where there's a reference to the norm of another law regarding the definition of a term. We can rope. No more remarks? Then I put to the vote on adoption in the second reading and in the whole of the law under number 7254 on amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts. [[establishing administrative responsibility for a breach in the field of national registration]] Please vote. [[13:36:48]] For 280 The law is passed. We're looking at the draft Law on Amendments to Article 11 of the Ukrainian Law on Urban Electric Transport, registration number 7050. [[concerning the implementation of the Standard Agreement on the Provision of Transport Services]] From Zinovy Vasilovich Skutjak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u212	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Construction, Urban Development, Housing and Regional Policy presents a draft draft bill of 27.08.2010, introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. [[Registration number 7050]] On the basis of the bill, it was adopted on November 4, 2010. The bill proposes to clarify the provisions of article 11 of the Ukrainian Law on City Electricity with the aim of establishing that contracts for the provision of electricity services in cities should be made on the basis of a standard contract to be approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. [[Registration number 7050]] During the drafting of the bill, proposals were made to the committee by Ukrainian National Deputies Karmazin, Marchuk, Strange, who were considered by the committee. Bill No. 7050 was discussed at a meeting of the Committee on February 2, 2011. The committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of a bill on second reading and generally as a law. Bill No. 7050 has no impact on the income and expenditure of the budgets. And in the case of adoption, appropriate standards can take effect from the day of publication. The main legal authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine has agreed on a comparative table for this bill without notice. Ladies and gentlemen, all these changes are made in one sentence that the agreement on the provision of transport services is made on the basis of a standard contract and later than a quarter before its entry into force, for a period of not less than a year. Please accept it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u213	Dear colleagues, all included, including the amendments of colleague Karmazin. That's why I'm voting for a second-reading proposal and, in general, a bill of Bill No. 7050 amending article 11 of the Ukrainian Law on Urban Electricity. Please vote. [[13:39:48]] For 310 The law is passed. We are considering a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on Elections of the President of Ukraine, from the committee – deputy head Yuri Bogdanovich Klukkowski, please. [[on the limitation of pre-election agitation]] [[Registration number 3529]]
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u214	Dear colleagues! Your opinion is proposed by the committee for the second reading of the draft Act amending the Law on Elections of the President of Ukraine. [[on the limitation of pre-election agitation]] It was long considered in the first reading, back in 2009, twice before the committee in November 2010 and February 2011. A comparative table contains 12 amendments and proposals from four national deputies. According to the 12 proposals, 10 are included, and two are included in part. In addition, there were five other proposals made by the Ukrainian national deputy Yuri Karmazin, who decided not to include the committee before the table, since they concerned amendments to other provisions of the Presidential Election Act, not those discussed in the first reading, and thus contravened 116 articles of the Ukrainian Rules. In view of the table prepared, all the amendments taken into account, the Law Department has called for a bill without notice, and the committee requests the adoption of the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u215	Thank you. I think we can vote, no comments? I'm voting on the second reading and the whole bill under number 3529 amending the Ukrainian Law on Elections of the President of Ukraine. [[on the limitation of pre-election agitation]] Please vote. [[13:41:55]] For-84 Not supported. The bill was rejected. We are considering a draft Law on a Moratorium to change the target destination of recreational destinations in cities and other populated areas. Registration number 2443. Reported by the deputy head of the Committee on Environmental Policy Ivan Aleksandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u216	John the Rabbit. Ukrainian People's Party. Dear National Deputies! I hope that we will adopt this bill today and Mr. Michael will give the right direction. Because you heard Mr. Popov's conversation with President Yanukovic yesterday, where the issue of conservation of green plants in Kiev was discussed. I'll remind you that we have adopted a ban on the removal of green plantings in Kiev, but the practice is that no one heeds our bill. And I remind you that when I adopted this bill, many of the national MPs said that let's spread these norms to the whole republic, then we'll have the only legal field and then we'll have a really active mechanism. Today, this bill just complements, complements that bill, and creates a situation to protect our population from the destruction of certain recreational objects. Regrettably, some MPs have amended the bill and are now talking about a moratorium, a five - year moratorium on green areas, green plantings, physical objects, and sports. I repeat, green areas, green plants, objects of physical culture, and sports. Who will be in this room, who would not defend the same objects, do we not know with you that in the past 10 or 15 years virtually destroyed all the sports and physical infrastructure in the settlements. And our children are nowhere to go except to go to some entertainment facilities and to bury their health and morale. So, honourable people's deputies, I speak so emotionally because I want to address you, reject all your mercantile interests, and finally we'll adopt this law and start making an order throughout Ukraine. Because it won't take long and there won't be a chance to play sports, there won't be anywhere for a mother and a child to go out. Yesterday, you saw again, probably through the STB or some other channel, a message that was cut down, that's, a park somewhere in the Shrine, and people say, there's nowhere to go with little kids. So let's think about the nation's perspective, let's act as responsible statesmen. And let us adopt this law, and let us begin to make arrangements in our home, whose name is Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u217	Yes, thank you. Let's go with the reverends. Yes, who insists on the authors if they are not included.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u218	Adam Ivanovich, when he spoke of the amendments, we considered the maximum number of amendments. And those amendments that are not taken into account are, in fact, simply not included in the content of this law. Hence, the conclusion is that this law can be adopted.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u219	Not always such a conclusion, lawyers have commented. Yes, please, Carmazin, what's the correction?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u220	35th.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u221	35 revisions. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u222	Yuri Carmazin. 35 revisions. Sadly, all changes to the Transitional Regulations were made here. And I predicted changes to the Earth Code, and I predicted changes to the Code of Administrative Offences, and that's different amendments. But I don't understand why it's done that way. The point is that I propose to supplement article 20 of the Earth Code with part five of the following content: "The change in the target destination of land assigned to recreational categories is carried out on condition that this is provided by the general plan of the inhabited site, the detailed plans of the territories and other urban documents, has positive conclusions from the environmental and executive authorities on environmental protection." I'm proposing in the Code of Administrative Offences to add a new article 53 with a 4 badge, where responsibility would be placed for the liquidation and retraining of sports and children's infrastructure without the prior creation of equivalent facilities. That's what we need to talk about. Right here.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u223	Yeah, I'm making an adjustment.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u224	No, no, I'm answering. Mr. Yuri is asking the right question. But it's a work for the future. You understand perfectly why we didn't put this amendment into law. Because according to our Rules, if we do not change the law in another law, we do not have the right to intervene in the second reading of this law. But the question is absolutely fair, and you have repeatedly spoken in this room, all deputies, that before this law there must be changes to the laws of responsibility and increase the responsibility for violating this law. So I think what Mr. Carmazin is talking about is a challenge for us in the future, let's prepare a bill like this and then we'll take it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u225	Yuri Anatolyevich always looks at the prospect and refuses the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u226	No, it's not.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u227	Oh, no? Then we're voting for the 35th amendment. [[13:48:29]] For-27 Not supported. No other comments? Then I put to the vote a proposal for adoption in the second reading and in general as a law, a bill under number 2443 on moratoriums to change the purpose of the assignment of land for reaction in cities and other locations. Please vote. [[13:49:06]] For 295 The law has been passed. I'm going to continue for 15 minutes. Chechtev, a replica, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u228	Dear Ivan Alexandrovich, I have deep respect for you and did not want to take a line. But for the first time, I agree with you. In your argument, you referred to the President's position. You're a wise politician, you and Kravczuk "adopted" the births of an independent Ukraine, four presidents have been, you've been an MP since 1990, you've never said that the President is right. And for the first time, you told the truth that Viktor Fedorovich was always right because he was the only president working for the State and the Ukrainian people. Bravo, Ivan Alexandrovich! Let's hear it!
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u229	Dear colleagues, I think it's only tomorrow after this statement that we have to report on the faction of the Party of the Regions by John Zayj. [[B in m in s a l in]] The rabbit's tail. Please, just a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u230	Dear friends, you know that I am a member of Parliament with a very serious experience. And my work has always been in the right wing, within national democracy. And I've always felt like this. If it works for the Ukrainian people, if it works for the community, I cooperate. If that doesn't work, I'm a tough, as you know, opponent in other things. So it's very nice that Mr. Mikhailo admitted my work. But you've forgotten one thing that will be the President's responsibility, will be the responsibility of the government, so you have to prove in practice that this law will not be a paper, but that this law will be implemented. Then your words will be righteous. So I look forward to very determined action by the Cabinet of Ministers, the Kiev local authorities and the President to implement this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u231	Yes, we are considering a draft Act amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts to establish responsibility for anti-competitive concerted action. [[Registration number 3577]] Victor Victorovich Shemchuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u232	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! Your opinion is proposed for consideration in the second reading and the draft Act submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts to establish responsibility for anti-competitive concerted action. I want to remind you that the bill provides for criminal responsibility for individual types of anticompetitive concerted action. To this end, it is proposed that the Criminal Code be supplemented by a new article 227 with a badge 1 and amended to the current edition of article 228 of the Criminal Code. In addition, the relevant amendments are made to article 112 of the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine on the definition of criminal proceedings of this category. And also from the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences, article 166 is deleted with badge 2, "Unlawful Agreements between Entrepreneurs". Regarding amendments, 13 amendments were made to the bill by law - abiding entities. Six of them are counted in whole or in part, and seven are rejected. Thus, the committee rejected the amendments 2, 3, 4 and 5 introduced by the national deputy of Ukraine to the staff. In Amendment No. 2, the author proposes to leave article 166 of the Code of Administrative Violations with the symbol "Irregular Agreements between Entrepreneurs" in the Ukrainian Code. The committee did not support this amendment because it considers administrative responsibility to be an ineffective means of fighting cartels. Within three months, the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Violations is virtually impossible to detect and collect appropriate evidence of a cartel conspiracy. Amendments 3, 4 and 5 were rejected by the Committee in view of the rejection of Amendment No. 2. The committee rejected amendment number 6, tabled by the Ukrainian National MP Pisarenko, page 3, since the committee believes that the wording of part one of article 228, proposed by the government, contains an exhaustive list of actions and is more successful. On page four of the table, the committee rejected another amendment of the Ukrainian National MP Pisarenko, under number 8, where the author proposed to reduce the sanctioning of part one of article 228 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code, the lower limit of the fine from 1,000 to 500 untaxed minimum incomes of citizens. Since the author did not provide sufficient grounds for such a decrease, the committee decided to reject it. On the fifth page of the table, you can see amendment number 10, presented by the People’s Commissioner of the staff, who suggests a change in the scope of article 228. The committee decided to reject it, since the editorial proposed by the government was more successful. In view of the fact that the Ukrainian Act amending some of Ukraine's anti-corruption laws has become invalid, the General Scientific and Scientific Administration's observations are also unnecessary. In view of this, I ask you to support and adopt the prescribed bill in second reading and in general as a law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u233	Thank you. Dear colleagues, which of the authors insists? We've heard the committee's reasoned suggestions on each of the amendments. You don't? I then put to the vote the proposal for a profile committee to adopt in the second reading and generally as a law amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts to establish responsibility for anti-competitive concerted action. [[Registration number 3577]] Please vote. Vote, Yuri Anatolyovich. [[13:55:27]] For-95 Not supported. The bill was rejected. The factions. Region Party 17, BUTT 26, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" - 20, communists – 25, "Reforms" – 2, National Party – 5, non-fractional – 0. We are considering a draft Act amending articles 283 and 308 of the Code of Administrative Offences concerning the payment of a double fine. [[Registration number 5272]] Moisik Volodymyr Romanovich of the committee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u234	Vladimir Moses, Party "For Ukraine!".. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! The law in our view is not difficult. In September 2008, when we adopted amendments to road safety legislation, we first introduced an article on the double size of a fine when the finer was under budgeted. But it wasn't determined who should do it, whether it was the determination of this double sized fine, whether it was a judge, whether it was a judicial executioner, or someone else. Therefore, today the MPs who co-sponsored the bill proposed a double amount of the fine set out in the decree to impose an administrative fine. And there were six amendments, four of them counted, two rejected, but I'd like for the TV set, for the radio audience to give a little bit of information from the state court administration. Last year nearly a million people were punished, and half a billion of them were taken to court, from which only one third were actually collected. Because there is an urgent need for this bill, it works both to prevent crime and to fill the state budget. Ready to answer the questions on the amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u235	Corrections are almost accounted for. No one insists. I can't see Carmine. Third amendment, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u236	Yuri Carmazin. Adam Ivanovich, I advise you to always see the defenders of the country. And just so you know, the previous 3577 bill, which was broken by the majority, provided for responsibility for anti-competitive concerted action. People! This is what now, in Greek and elsewhere, harmonizes with competitive action, foresees the government’s responsibility, and the government’s majority failed! That's for you to know, because we don't have a summary, Adam Ivanovich, and you're not talking about what you're breaking up, what it is against the people. My amendment number 3 concerns that we write down that the requirements of the decision; that the decision should contain both the appointment of the body, and the size of the fine, and that when a decision is made, the date of consideration, the information about the person, it should all be in the order.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u237	Yeah, the 3rd amendment's on the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:59:22]] For 20 And I'm giving you a reference to the charge of Yuri Anatolyovich. on the previous bill. That this bill was actually introduced by the government that led Timoshenko. Yes, what other amendments are unaccounted for? None. I then put to the vote the proposal to adopt in the second reading and generally as a law: to amend articles 283 and 308 of the Code of Administrative Offences. [[on payment of a double fine]] [[Registration number 5272]] I'd like to make a statement. I went on for 15 minutes. There'll be a break in 15 minutes. [[14:00:20]] For-34 Not supported. The bill was rejected. We're looking at a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Social Adaptation of Persons Who Were Punished as a Limitation of Will or Deprivation of Will for a Certain Period, a new edition. Registration number 7045. The committee is Gretzak Vasil Mikolaiovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u238	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! Bill 7045 proposed to you on social adaptation of persons who have been punished in the form of restrictions of will or withdrawal for a certain period, introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the first reading of November 30, 2010 by 230 votes in favour. Today, in Ukraine, there is a valid Act on Social Adaptation of Persons who have been punished in the form of restrictions of will or withdrawal for a certain period of time, which took effect on 8 August 2003 and consists of 11 articles. In connection with the ongoing process in Ukraine of forming a system of social adaptation of the released persons and establishing a network of institutions for this category of citizens, there was a need for an additional legislative settlement of a number of issues in the given sphere of activity, which is proposed to be regulated by a new edition of the Act on Social Adaptation of Persons Who Were Punished in the form of a Restriction of Will or Deprival of Will for a Certain Period. The provisions of Law No. 7045 are prepared for consideration in the second reading and consist of 26 articles. The central and local executive authorities, local self - government authorities, other legal and physical persons who will carry out social welfare measures in preparation for the release of persons who are subject to restrictions, or the removal of their will for a certain period, as well as improving the social welfare process itself, allowing for the coordination of the efforts of all social care units to improve the provision of services provided by article 9 of the project to the released persons. And to ensure the realization of their rights guaranteed by the Constitution of Ukraine. In addition, the bill improves and complements terminology, as well as the identification and authorization of social subjects. In preparing the bill, 23 proposals were made to the committee for consideration in the second reading, of which 17 were partially and editorially taken into account, including by the committee and the amendment of the Moysik People’s Deputy to article 18 of the draft, which was presented in a different edition. Six proposals that do not involve meaningful effort are not included, nor are they in line with the provisions of the Codex Budgets. The committee made a proposal to the Supreme Council of Ukraine regarding the adoption of Law 7045 in second reading and generally as a law. In preparation, the proposed proposals are taken into account; there are decisions of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans, and Disabled Persons and the Committee on Social Policy and Labour. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u239	Thank you. Nobody insists? Karmazin, although part of it has been taken into account, is named Yuri Anatolyevich. Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u240	Yuri Carmazin. It's really a good law. I thank the reporter for taking him seriously, but nevertheless. Adam Ivanovich, Amendment 11, 18 and 19, I will insist on their consideration.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u241	All right, Amendment 11, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u242	Starting with the 11th, the 11th amendment foresees that I propose a part of the third article six to be drafted: "the central authority of the executive authority on the execution of sentences in an order approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, informs the representatives of the relevant states about foreign citizens who are serving sentences in the form of restrictions of will, or the deprivation of liberty for a certain period of time and after their release require foreign assistance. And when international agreements are made on the interaction outlined in these treaties, the authorities will be able to do so. This is clearly what it takes for us to be a civilized state to interact, in fact, our interaction was aimed at social adaptation of people who are not citizens of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u243	I'm putting to the vote 11 amendments to the vote, please. [[14:05:19]] For-25 Not supported. 18th Amendment, Carmazine's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u244	Thank you very much for your support. The 18th Amendment of Carmazin refers to such questions as: I propose to delete article 20, which is called "Responsibility of Internal Affairs for Social Patronage," because it duplicates the standards of current legislation, particularly the Bill of Militia. And these clarifications should be contained in an entirely different law, and here we provide in this law that the internal affairs authorities carry out checks on the arrival of the liberated person to the place of residence, carry out other powers in this area in accordance with legislation. I quoted this, paragraph one, paragraph two of this article. As a result, I believe that, like an article that has no meaningful workload and is provided for in another law, it needs to be removed from here. Thank you, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u245	18 is voting, please be sure. [[14:06:47]] For-26 Not supported. And the 19th, please, Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u246	Yuri Carmazin. Thank you to those who understand the law correctly. I propose in Amendment 19 to delete an article called "Citizenization and Registration of Individuals for Social Patronage". It foresees that these bodies provide, although after this reform that is, it is already being achieved and there are no such bodies. I'm just asking you to know that we don't have the organs you want to assign today. I believe that this article duplicates the standards of current legislation, and these should be contained in the text of other laws. Because here we're just wrecking it, not a bad law at all. And in addition to everything else, I would like to point out to you that there is a reference to this law of jurisdiction. And I'd like us to take them into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u247	The 19th vote is on the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[14:08:17]] For-29 Not supported. I'm proposing support for Bill No. 7045 on second reading and in general: the Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the Social Adaptation of Persons Who Performed Punishment in the form of a Limitation of Will or a Deprivation of Will for a Certain Period. [[new editor]] Please vote. [[2:08:52]] For the 250. The law is passed. And let's take a quick look at the bill amending the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences. [[7247]] [[on the responsibilities of military law enforcement officials]] Yuri Volodymyrovich Prokopchuk, please, from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u248	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! The bill is very short. It is well - founded, conducted, and led to second reading. The basic motive, the basic body of the law, is said to have been well studied, and the adoption of this law will allow for better regulation of the activities of military officials in the Ukrainian Armed Forces during the cessation of offences committed by military officers, military and reserve forces during the conduct of the congregations, as well as by members of the Ukrainian Armed Forces in carrying out their duties. The draft law provides for amendments to the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences, namely, that part of the regulation of the execution of duties by military officials in the Ukrainian Armed Forces, when arresting or folding of military and military-related reserve personnel during the meeting, as well as by Ukrainian Armed Forces personnel, while performing their duties in the course of administrative offences. It is also proposed to amend articles 15, 235 with footnotes one, 255, 259, 260 and 262 of the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences, which define offences for which officials of the military law enforcement service in the Ukrainian Armed Forces have the right to file administrative records and carry out administrative detention. The Committee believes that the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Code of Administrative Offences will enable effective, legitimate enforcement of law enforcement and military discipline. [[concerning the powers of military officials]] In all, nine amendments were made to the bill, four of which were taken into account in full, in part, or editorially, and five were rejected. So, honourable colleagues, please, and I want to look at amendment two there, and I want to take it down, and I think it's appropriate to take it down, because it's about appropriate services, where authorizations go beyond this law. [[it's been introduced by me.]] So please support me in my second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u249	Dear colleagues! Karmazin's amendments are taken into account, although it says here that "not counted" but you have to write it down because they are included in other authors' texts. So please, Yuri Anatoliyovich, please thank you for the amendments and we will vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u250	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Adam Ivanovich! I'd like you to read the material part anyway, because this is about the list of officials and so on. My amendment refers to a little else, and I propose a part of the first article of article 259, which reads as follows: "For the purpose of drafting a protocol on administrative misconduct, if it is impossible to place it at the scene of an offence, if the formation of a protocol is mandatory, the violator may be taken to the police unit of the military law enforcement service of the Armed Forces or to the State Border Service, or to the Civil Protection Unit of a police officer, a military law enforcement officer, a military officer or a member of the State Border Guarding Service or a member of the civil service, a state border guard in violation of the legislation concerning the State secret to the Ukrainian Security Service, its co-worker, a violationer of the number of staff members of the militia also prior to the military service unit."
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u251	Karmazin's third amendment is a vote, please. [[2:13:02]] For-24 Not supported. Another correction for Carmazin, please 6th.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u252	Yuri Carmazin. I thank the few but wise opposition that sustained me. I also propose to improve the bill to complete part of the first article of the 260 Codex and to make it available in such a way. If it is necessary to take the steps indicated to those who have submitted documents regarding their membership in the number of staff members of the Ukrainian intelligence body who have performed their duties, those who have detained them in accordance with the requirements of this law are obliged to inform the official representative of the divorcee immediately. A review of the vehicle for divorce, when used for service purposes and its staff, is only permitted in the presence of an official representative of that body. I want to define this category separately, because it needs to be highlighted and it's not made in this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u253	Don't open it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u254	So I took off my number two amendment so that this category could be completely declassified and we didn't harm, including our own, yet existing, scouts.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-17-m0.u255	Yuri Anatoliyovich, they say you also represent them in the Supreme Council. I'm putting six amendments to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[14:14:41]] For-24 Not supported. All the changes have been made. I put to the vote a proposal by the adoption committee in the second reading and as a whole a motion to amend the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences. [[on the responsibilities of military and law enforcement officials in the Armed Forces]] [[Registration number 7247]] Please be supportive. Carmagine, he's voting too. [[14:15:16]] For 283 The law is passed. Rule's out. At this morning meeting of the Supreme Council, so that there are no violations, I declare closed. At 16 o'clock, we'll resume the session.
