ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, please prepare for registration, at the same time invite the deputies to the session room. Turn on the "Race" system. [[16:00:44]] They registered in the 360 National Deputies Sessional Hall. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. [[cards registered]] Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the issues that we have in time, namely the draft Ukrainian Armed Forces Bill for 2011. [[B in m in s a l in]] 7084. Let's make a quick report, and we'll make a decision. The rapporteur is Yuri Miroshnichenko, representative of the President of Ukraine. Volodymyr Moses prepare for the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m1.u2	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear voters, dear colleagues! Yuri Miroshnichenko, representative of the President of Ukraine at the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Given the extreme tension of our working day, I will briefly report the president's position on Bill 7084. And you know that the President has returned this bill to the Supreme Council of Ukraine with a proposal for its rejection. The President proposes rejecting the Ukrainian Act on the amendment of article 155 of the Criminal Procedure Code on the improvement of the order of taking a person into custody, as such that it would adversely affect the performance of the tasks of criminal proceedings, violate the rights of victims, contain provisions that do not comply with the Constitution of Ukraine and do not comply with other legislative acts, continues with norms that may be applied differently. It creates, I apologize, norms that may not be applied equally when they are implemented, but will violate the constitutional principles of the rule of law, equality and justice. Dear colleagues, I ask you to support the position of the President of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m1.u3	Thank you. Have a seat. Vladimir Romanovich, please. Please, a question. Yuri Carmazin's question. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m1.u4	Yuri Carmazin. The President's Honourable Representative! I'm talking to you. According to the Rules, I am entitled to questions for those who do not understand, as is the case with a loving MP. I'm talking to you about how you've always tried to follow the law and tried to act under the Constitution. This law should democratize the situation in the country and prevent the abuse of precautionary measures such as taking up custody, including its use to the left and to the right, within the framework of the political settlement that is now being implemented in Ukraine, which shames the country abroad. Please tell me, as in this case, this is consistent with what is declared on behalf of the state in the international arena, that Ukraine for the rights and freedoms of citizens is what you now propose to repeal this law, which is actually for the Democrat.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m1.u5	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. I want to stress that I'm not offering anything here, I represent the position of the President of Ukraine. It is formulated, sent to the only legislative body of Ukraine – our Parliament in the Supreme Council, and I have heard the arguments put forward by the President in my own. In his letter. These arguments are that any improvement in legislation, including the mitigation of criminal persecution, the application of more liberal norms, should not prevent the implementation of the criminal justice function that makes punishment irreversible. And in this context, the President’s experts have prepared a paper that is that our mechanisms that we are proposing in this law will not allow this problem to be solved. Actually, that's what I reported briefly. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m1.u6	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Vladimir Romanovich Moysik, head.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m1.u7	Vladimir Moses, Party for Ukraine! Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, Yuri Romanovich reported the point, and I remind you that this bill is still in first reading, and now the military department will report a bill on the number of the Armed Forces. So today in our country, we have roughly the same people in the army and in prison: about 150,000 people. The government of Mikola Janovića Azarova introduced a bill, proposing to reduce the number of prisoners. In what way? Today, a person is on guard if a crime is punishable by a sentence of up to three years of imprisonment. The government suggested that it should be up to five years old and that people should not be arrested with less sanctions. Unfortunately, I can tell you that somewhere through the efforts of our committee and then the entire Supreme Council, the bill was worsened compared to what was adopted in the first reading. So we ask, really, this bill is aimed at humanization and the economy of criminal repression. So the committee has come to a conclusion, and I think you can support it, too, that all the President's proposals are correct, but we ask you to take them into account. And on the basis of article 135, paragraph 8, of the Rules, this paragraph allows the Supreme Council of Ukraine to amend the law for further work on our committee and to bring it back to our consideration with you. Thank you for your attention and for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m1.u8	Dear colleagues, do you have a question for a representative of our colleague Moses? None. Is it? Please sign up. I'm asking you. Names of the national MPs, please. Valentin Grigorovich Matviev.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m1.u9	Please pass the word to Valery Bezz.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m1.u10	Valerius Beales, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m1.u11	Vladimir Romanovich, in fact, asks what to do? There's one suggestion: five years or three years. So let's define right away: either the profile committee makes the right proposal, and we're going to put it to a vote and make the decision, or we're going to take the shot, there's just no other way. If the country is on its way because we are going to move on to more active decriminalization processes, we probably have to agree with the proposal made by the Cabinet of Ministers. If not, then let's stay in those positions and those terms that are set out in the Criminal Procedure Code. All of it. Please explain how it is.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m1.u12	Dear Valery Ananiyovich, the problem is that we have either support for the Rules or not to support the President's proposals. The president is proposing that the law be rejected. For us to keep the new law for five or three years, we need to go back to rereading the bill. And there were six exceptions to the law that we signed on to the President when we could be arrested under five years of age, well, and much of what the President was paying attention to.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m1.u13	Taras Blackwall, the Reform Group for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m1.u14	Dear reporter, well, actually, I share the position of your committee. That's why I didn't have a question for you. I insisted that I ask a representative of the President, because I could not understand his words, which means that the rules that are in the law eliminate the irreversibility of punishment when it comes to keeping watch until the trial, with a tremendous number of exceptions. Which actually makes this law quite questionable in implementation, but even though it allows the investigation to choose a more humane way and not to make us laugh in front of the world. In this case, I have a question for you. And what will be reflected in the image of Ukraine in general is that now we have just a slow stage in criminalizing responsibility in a mass way, with the smallest violations that can even match the level of petty bullying in general, going into custody, and we're not going to accept this law, and it's going to be rejected. How will this turn out?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m1.u15	Dear colleague, when I reported this law from the rostrum on the first reading, I pointed out that criminal policy was to be pursued in the state. But look, we passed a law where we limited time to familiarize the accused and the defense attorney with the material of the case. Another law had been introduced to impose the death penalty. This law that the government has passed, we do not want to impose sanctions on the accused yet rather than on the guilty person. That is, we must follow the humane course: reduce the number of prisoners. And I'm going to say that this law, which I repeat, is a government law, was voted by 350 national deputies, of all the totally factions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m1.u16	Yuri Carmazin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m1.u17	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Mr. Volodymyr, I have a question for you. I remember this law being drafted, and it was adopted perfectly, and it was properly supported by 350 deputies. But for some reason, they thought right now at the President's Administration that we'd have to release everyone who's been planted immediately. That's for Lucenka, for other people. It seems to have been damaged by 40,000, and in fact, the state has already suffered much greater damage to maintenance, treatment, and so forth. I mean, it's clear that this Stalin face wants to go on. Because when they said it was so bad, I'm so sorry. I know you as a serious expert. Please tell me what else to do, if it was clearly written: within 5 years, there are alternative types of take-offs that can be applied. What else do you want to do?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m1.u18	Yuri Anatoliyovich, I agree with you completely, but what motivates the President's lawyers to need a veto on this law? The law will severely limit the ability of the State’s law enforcement authorities to initiate the selection of a preventive measure of arrest. Of course, it's not an explanation, it's not the right thing to do, I would ask you to support the committee's proposal not to support the veto, but to return the law to the committee so that we can raise the sanctions up to five years from which the defendants can be arrested.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m1.u19	Thank you, sit down, please. Dear colleagues! Please prepare yourself for making a decision. I will put to the vote the President of Ukraine's first motion to reject this bill. The second proposal, if you don't support it, is to go to the committee, and the third proposal, if you don't support it, is to overcome the veto. So there's going to be three of those, no objections? The first is a motion by the President of Ukraine to reject the Ukrainian Act amending article 155 of the Ukrainian Code of Criminal Procedure. [[on improving the order in which a person is taken into custody]] [[Registration number 7084]] Please vote. Please vote. [[16:14:10]] For the 250. Decision taken. The law is rejected. I now announce for consideration the Ukrainian Act on Amendment to Article 143 of the Ukrainian Family Code on the Obligation of the Father to Take the Child Out of the Birth House, with proposals by the President of Ukraine dated 02.04. In 2011 The rapporteur is the representative of the President of Ukraine at the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Yuri Miroshnichenko, co-rapporteur, Katerina Lukyanova.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m1.u20	Dear voters! Dear colleagues! Yuri Miroshnichenko, Representative of the President of Ukraine to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In order to ensure the protection of the rights and interests of a child whose mother has not been taken from the maternity home or from another health institution, as well as the father of such a child, the Head of State considers it appropriate to define in law the mechanism by a father’s report that he was obliged to take the child out of the maternity home or from another health institution by supplementing the law that you and I passed by supplementing the article of the first law that came to the signature with such content. [[And I am grateful for this as the author of this law to the President and his experts.]] Part two of article 143 of the Ukrainian Family Code should be supplemented by paragraph two of the following: “a father who is not married to a child whose parenthood is defined in a certificate of birth or is recognized by a court decision that is required by a report of a child service that is carried out in an orderly manner by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to take the child out of the maternity home or from another health institution if he does not have a child. If a father is not married, he becomes a single father." The other one. To supplement the law with the provision of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to determine the order of a father who is not married to a child’s mother, the obligation to take a child out of a maternity home or other health care facility. Dear colleagues, it is primarily about protecting the rights of a child who has been born. If the child was not taken by her mother and the law was in force, the father would be obliged to do so. Considering that the President is very careful about those bills or laws that we adopt, which relate to the fate of children, the unprotected types of the population, that such an essential element of the improvement of the law will allow not only to essentially solve this problem, but also to foresee mechanisms in which way this will take place procedurally. So I ask you to support the President's proposal by perfecting this law, by adopting it again. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m1.u21	Is there a question for the reporter? Please sign up. Well, we've been discussing this, and it's already been known. What, we're gonna do it a couple more times? We have a day-to-day mass of drafts. Names of the national MPs, please. Ivan Stepanovich Plush, MP's group "Reforms for the Future".
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m1.u22	Who's doing this? Yuri Carmazin, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m1.u23	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear Yuri Romanovich, I have carefully read the President's proposals and I find them right, both first and second. First.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m1.u24	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m1.u25	The other one. I also support the fact that a father acquires the status of a single father, although, God forbid, all families should be complete. But I have a question. Please ask the bank there whether the right to legislative initiative could be exercised during the second reading of the President. Because until now, as far as I'm concerned in this Supreme Council, the President has never once exercised the right of legislative initiative to second reading, that is, he doesn't have that right. Please take this as a hint to Bank Street and please sit back and work on the projects, not the veto. Because a good offer here, normally, I'm going to vote for it, even though I'm in opposition. Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m1.u26	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. But I think this is more of a proposal than to the President, but to me as a representative of the President in Parliament. Because all of you, colleagues, know that the vast majority of those expert thoughts that are formulated by the amendments, I, as a representative of the President, am bringing to Parliament the laws for second reading. And we worked with the profile committee, you know, it's that exceptional case. Especially when it comes to the fate of children, when an additional control system allows us to improve the quality of this law. But what the President's team does and the revisions to the second reading go -- all the committees know, because I'm going to form them by my signature. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m1.u27	Thank you. Catherine Samuel, the Communist faction. No, no, there is still a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m1.u28	Thank you. You're going for nothing. Yuri Romanovich, please come back.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m1.u29	Yuri Romanovich!
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m1.u30	Yuri Romanovich, please come back and answer. I'm just saying, it's right that there's going to be a different father's status. I know, because as I lead the women's organization, there are parents who raise 8 to 6 children on their own. But tell me, Yuri Romanovich, are there any fuses that are found somewhere by the father? They took a look around, and they found out that this father was eventually a father. What if he's a junkie? What if he's a drunk? What if he's homeless? Please tell me, is the bill designed for fuses? For it is better not to have such a father but to find a foster family rather than to have a father who raises, doesn’t bring up, rather, a child who is a true citizen of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m1.u31	Thank you, Mrs. Catherine. And I'm very grateful for that question, even though we're taking up time a little bit. But, yeah, really, that's why I'm saying that the President is greatly improving this law, because that's exactly what this situation was about. And it's not just the circumstances that are described. This must be either written, well, set up parenthood, or recorded in the birth certificate, or the court has established this fact. But even then, at the initiative of the relevant public service, this procedure can be carried out, do you understand? That's why I'm saying that the President, well, will make this law much better. And as an author, I thank him for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m1.u32	Igor Ribakov, MP's Reform for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m1.u33	I'd like a word with the Chapel.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m1.u34	Dear colleagues, Your Honor Yuri Romanovich, you know, you personally want to ask questions about this bill. Of course, the President’s proposals improved him, strengthened the bill, but what to do with the commitment of the child’s services — to inform the father if, for example, there is no decision on his parenthood. That's the first one. Second, there is no court decision to collect genetic material from him. Third, what to do when the mother herself does not know who her father is. And fourth, what to do when the mother left the child in the maternity home — that is, she is not interested in the child’s future and does not even want to report it to the father. Look, of course, we're going to vote for this bill, but there are a few of these angles. Please answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m1.u35	Thank you, thank you and thank you all for being so active in this discussion, for these are the fates of the unhappy children who, unfortunately, were in a situation where their parents did not take them. This is also the subject of a very serious social discussion, for unfortunately, this law regulates only cases where parenthood is established either by entering into a birth certificate or by a court. Regrettably, those children who find themselves in a situation that you have told your mother that the mother has not reported or has no objective information, the decision of the court who is the father, then the state remains the sole guardian of such a child. And even though we all want every child to be raised in the family, it will be brought up in those institutions or children’s homes of the family type, at best, or in ordinary children’s homes. Well, unfortunately, that's the situation right now. The state will never abandon these children and they will always be.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m1.u36	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m1.u37	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Dear Yuri Romanovich, I think if we, when we adopted this bill, took into account the proposals that were made by those people who read it, who were working on it, the President didn't have to make those proposals. Because they're actually repeating it. Remember, there was a discussion? And besides the questions that Catherine Semenovna justly asked me, I have a question then, and now what's next? Well, did the father take the child from the maternity home? Where is her responsibility? Would he not give this child away? Does God know where? Would he not leave her at the door of an apartment? I know that when such laws are passed, they should not be sporadic and completely fragmented. Because it's a question of children. You're right about that. I insist on that one more time. That by adopting such laws we, if you'll excuse the efimism, will get to the mice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m1.u38	Thank you, Mr. Oleg, for your concern. But you know, not everything is regulated by the law. After all, no one on the outside will be able to fill the heart of a father or a mother with love for his child. All we can do is promote, motivate. But there is no way to settle fully the relationships that exist in the family. So we did our job. As society applies this law, I think it will show time. And you and I are still going to be on child protection. And if necessary, we will also improve the laws. Thank you. I hope I can sit down?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m1.u39	Please sit down. Luciano Catherine Eugenyevna, please, from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m1.u40	A law passed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on March 15, 2011, suggested that a father who is not married to a child should be taken from a maternity home or other health care facility if he did not have a child. I would like to emphasize once again that this law is aimed at the legislative support of good - conscienceed parents. The president of Ukraine believes that this situation requires clear detail on how parenthood should be established. At the same time, the president of Ukraine agreed with the legislative proposal to provide a father who assumed the responsibility of supporting and raising a child with appropriate guarantees from the State. The main scientific and expert office commented on the proposal made by the President of Ukraine and believes that the proposed legislative novelty, because of the difficulties that may arise in its practical application, will not lead to a significant improvement in the situation with abandoned children. This issue has not been fully resolved and the proposals of the President of Ukraine, which will contribute to a certain improvement in this standard. For example, there is a question of how the Child Service can inform a possible parent in cases where the parent of an abandoned child does not or does not know who may be the father of a child. However, the committee agreed with the proposals of the President of Ukraine and recommended that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt the whole Act on Amendments to Article 143 of the Ukrainian Family Code on the duty of the father to take the child out of the maternity home, taking into account the proposals of the President of Ukraine. It's the only thing I'm going to add. Last year, 780 women gave up their children in maternity homes. If at least 80, 20, 8, 2, 1 child had been taken by a father, I think the state and children would have just improved their existence. Please support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m1.u41	Dear colleagues, we have two amendments to vote on, amendments to the President of Ukraine. The committee made a positive decision on these proposals. At the same time, in accordance with the Rules, we must confirm this by voting. That's why I'm asking for your attention. I put to the vote Amendment No. 1 of the President of Ukraine to this bill, which is counted by the committee. Please vote. [[16:28:59]] For 268. Correction accepted. I now put to the vote Amendment 2, the author is the President of Ukraine, and the committee supports it. Please vote. [[16:29:23]] For 264 Correction accepted. I now put to the vote a proposal, honourable colleagues, to adopt a law that takes into account the amendments made by the President of Ukraine as a whole. Please vote. [[16:29:53]] For 267 Decision taken. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, you are now invited to consider the draft Law on the Number of the Armed Forces of Ukraine for 2011. I'm voting on a motion to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. [[16:30:24]] For 227 Decision taken. The rapporteur is the first Deputy Minister of Defence of Ukraine, Možarovsky Volodymir Mikolaajovich. The Coroner is the head of the National Security and Defence Committee, Anatoly Stepanovich Grizenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m1.u42	Honourable Volodymyr Mihajlovich, distinguished national deputies, at the request of the President of Ukraine, I am presenting a draft Ukrainian Act on the Number of Armed Forces of Ukraine for 2011. Ukraine’s draft law provides for the establishment of a military force of up to 192 000 personnel on 31 December 2011, including up to 144,000 military personnel. During 2011, the total strength of the Armed Forces will decrease by 7,000,897 personnel, including 6,000, 174 military personnel. This coincides with the European trend of reducing the total number of armed forces, defence planning documents, and maintaining in their organizational and state-of-the-art peace-time only a set of military units of constant readiness ready for immediate use without being fully equipped in the event of an armed conflict. At the same time, the military’s military potential will be preserved and will not be allowed to lose trained personnel, increase social tension in military groups and families. The main ways of bringing the military force's numbers to the draft law are the deployment of bases and components of material and technical security facilities that are not provided for in the prospective military force, the optimization of the structure and the reduction of the number of military administrations in the framework of the administrative reform introduced by the President of Ukraine, the optimization of the structure and number of military units and parts of the military security, primarily those that are not foreseen, the prospective structures of the armed forces, the reduction of the number of security units during the transition to new forms of technical, rear and other security, the introduction of a military education and science system in line with the needs of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. The law is designed to be implemented within the framework of the State Budget for 2011. The bill is in agreement with.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m1.u43	Finish up, please. Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m1.u44	I propose to adopt in the first reading and as a whole a draft of the Ukrainian Armed Forces Bill for 2011. The report was completed. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m1.u45	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Anatoly Stepanovich Grizenko, head of the National Security and Defence Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m1.u46	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! First, the conclusion. Our committee has decided to recommend that this document be sent for processing and not accepted today. Why? Unfortunately, the minister’s report to the committee was completely helpless, and he was unable to answer the key questions. There has been a decision on non-blocking status, so any reference to European experience, European countries united in NATO and working together on security issues, how the rationale for further reductions in the Armed Forces cannot withstand any criticism. The committee found that the government had self-delivered from the task of defense, from funding properly. There are no key answers to important questions. The national security strategy is not approved. The new military doctrine is not approved. And as many committee members have said, this is the first case in the history of an independent Ukraine when no state program was developed for the medium term in 15 months of the new team. It's all going down in the dark, and it's been 15 months in fact the destruction of the Armed Forces, so it takes a serious intervention for the government. You can't accept this document because you're already in a situation where there's one civilian in the army for two military personnel. And among the military there is still a proposal to reduce the very fighting component of these parts, which should protect our state, now relying on their own strength, without any allies or partners. If most people have the political will to vote for this document, then I would like to listen to the proposal made at the committee meeting by Alexander Ivanovich Kuzmuk, to accept it only in the first reading and then to work on it. But once again, the committee's decision is to send for work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m1.u47	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up for a discussion of the matter if there is a need. But I'm just thinking, if the first sentence is to vote, what should we take as a basis, like two digits then? We have a problem. Mikhailo Chechetov. Alexander Ivanovich Kuzmuk, please. How about the rostrum, Alexander Ivanovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m1.u48	..extension of the Armed Forces. Perhaps first, I ask you to support this bill. Yes, the software documents have not yet been approved, but they cannot be approved because the State Development Programme of the Armed Forces has been planned since 2012. Thus, the current year 2011 is organizational. And the headquarters are planning a series of organizational measures: formation, decomposition, and transformation of military units. Therefore, some parts of the individual composition need to be reduced during this period. Of course, it's not the fighting parts. The other one. And when we accepted the 2011 budget, I repeatedly asked for 19.8 billion, with my soul, as a calculated and scientifically based minimum needs of the Armed Forces. So at 13 what reforms, what increase might this be about? None. So I would like to support this bill, and I would like to think about the autumn, the budget, and next year, when the state programs are approved, I would like to talk about capacity building, including the human, the Ukrainian Armed Forces. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m1.u49	Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin, faction “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”. Vladimir Yavorowski will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m1.u50	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, “Our Ukraine is the People’s Self-Defense”. Ladies and gentlemen, look at this brief and logical bill. So that's where you put it, what's the intellectual level. It says, "It will allow for a corresponding number of the state's ability to provide resources." That's right! But if we do, there will be no way! During the day and night, there are 5 cranes, 40 workers, and 5 floors are now being built by a helicopter. Give up the army's money! 5 billion Livela took away, and they gave the tax team to call off the subpoenas at all. Give it to the army! Isn't that enough, Alexander Ivanovich? That's enough to make it normal. The other one. We're planning to cut 14 thousand more by 2015. So we're going to cancel out the fighting units and we're going to cancel out the 14th. And that's what we're all announcing to the whole world that we have an off-block status. People good, out-of-block status means we have to keep our defenses from the north, from the east, and from the west, and from the south. What can we do to keep our defenses? With what? What resources? What a new one. Yes, the Party of Motherland Defenders will hold, hold, wait another month – and hold, you will see! As a result, we must not adopt this law. The committee made a wise decision: It should be rejected. Neither in the first nor in any reading, your honor, can be accepted. Don't wait, don't wait until you've got the money to make these officers completely incapable of getting the money just for a cut. They do not want to, they want to serve, they have sworn allegiance to Ukraine. I understand there's been some people here.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m1.u51	Thank you. Vladimir Aleksandrovich Yavorowski, “BUT” faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m1.u52	Dear parliamentarians and perhaps a little less respectful of those who have chosen this House, because I understand perfectly that Karmazin's speech and my speech will not change your moods at all. I remember very well how the parliamentarians of the 1990s, when we, then the Presidency of the Supreme Council, were sitting and worrying about what we were going to do when, here in Ukraine, almost a million troops gathered, who were then focused on this South West, on our western border. Who would have thought that in 20 years our army would fall, the Ukrainian army would fall into the Shagrene Skin and be reduced every year? I'm not bleaching anyone here from even the predecessors of today's Azarov and today's President, but the army is constantly shrinking, shrinking, shrinking, and it's starting to seem in the world that this German state is simply incapable of supporting its army. What is more, we are living in a totally uncertain situation today. What kind of army is our military doctrine that we have? Is it supposed to be a precept, or is it supposed to be a protective doctrine? At the same time, on the other hand, the absolute paradox is that we are a non-locked country and that we are all protected and no one will ever touch us at all. Because of knowing that no money has been invested today, no money has been invested in the military industry today by today’s government, a powerful one that can make enormous profits in Ukraine today, and our army can be secured, and everything, in fact, is today constricted and infirm. That's why we're putting the Ukrainian army down to 194 thousand today, and it's actually going to be 144 battles in just over a thousand, and if that's going to be a reduction in the fighting parts. We know today that there are no military training funds available today, that our soldiers are learning today, that young boys coming into the army are learning some of the things they're learning, and they don't even know what they're doing.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m1.u53	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m1.u54	I don't know what combat technique is. That's why I'm convinced that if you vote today to cut the army down again, it's an anti-Ukrainian, anti-State crime. I can't call it anything else.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m1.u55	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the decision-making process. Dear colleagues. I am voting on the President's proposal to approve the Ukrainian Armed Forces 2011 Bill. Please vote. Registration number 8444. Please vote. [[16:43:02]] For 249 Decision taken. Thank you. The factions, please. Region Party – 183, BUT – "Fathership" – 0, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 2, Communists – 23, "Reforms for the Future" – 18, People's Party – 20, non-fractional – 3. I am announcing for consideration the draft Law approving the decision of the President of Ukraine to admit the forces of other States to Ukraine in 2011 to participate in multinational military training. A brief procedure suggests that the matter be considered. Please vote. [[16:43:50]] For 208 Decision taken. The rapporteur is the first Deputy Minister of Defence, Možarovsky Vladimir Mikolaiovich. The Coroner is the head of the National Security and Defence Committee, Gricenko Anatoly Stepanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m1.u56	The Honorable Head of the Supreme Council! Dear National Deputies! With a view to enhancing the peacetime effectiveness of the Armed Forces, as well as mastering the experience of units involved in international peacekeeping operations in 2011 in Ukraine, 12 multinational studies are planned. All learning has an exclusively peacekeeping theme, and it should be emphasized that the Armed Forces are participating in these trainings according to foreign political priorities. With the SND countries, we plan to work together as part of the Ukrainian-Russian teaching "Parwater of Peace 2011". Ukrainian-Belarusian-Russian teaching of mechanized units, as well as Ukrainian-Belarusian and Ukrainian-Russian teaching of anti-air defence. In June, we're planning on conducting a massive Ukrainian-American training program called "Si Breez." There is another important aspect of our partners' traditional focus on ensuring that international learning is conducted in Ukraine is not an exception to 2011. These funds will buy fuel-oil materials for Ukrainian ships, airplanes, and military equipment. Moreover, the conduct of multinational training will contribute to strengthening trust and security among the participating countries and to enhancing the international authority of our state. Dear National Deputies! In the light of the above, the Ministry of Defence proposes to support the draft of the Act of Ukraine. The report is closed, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m1.u57	Thank you, sit down, please. Anatoly Stepanovich Grizenko, head of the National Security and Defence Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m1.u58	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! First of all, the committee proposes to support the bill and to vote on it as a whole. In fact, he's late in time, because by May of the month of military training planned, and I hope that the representative of the President here has brought to the head of state the concern that this bill would have been submitted to the Supreme Council in September-Yellow not later than now, in order to establish normal planning and not put our foreign partners in a situation where they're already on the border, but they can't get in. That's the first one. The other one. I'd like to take into account the transcript of the Secretary of Defense's assurances he made at the committee meeting that there would be no rocket strikes that would call into question security during the Ukrainian-Russian teachings of the 2011 Fairwater for Peace. And military training itself is essential for an army that prepares for joint action with other states because the nature of modern threats does not allow anyone, even the most powerful in economic and military terms, to take such a "hot-extreme" position. Only by working together can we locate those threats and challenges that are now emerging. Therefore, willingness to do so must be assured. I repeat, please support and accept this document as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m1.u59	Thank you. So, shall we vote, Your Honor?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m1.u60	Discussion? Anyone who insists, please sign in. Sign up, sign up. Names of the national MPs, please. Gregory Smythew. And then.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m1.u61	I ask you to pass the word to Kuzmuku.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m1.u62	Alexander Kuzmuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m1.u63	Dear colleagues, for 16 years in Ukraine, as well as the Ukrainian Armed Forces in the territory of other nations, have been conducting training. And we can now find out what a great benefit, the experience of these teachings. At our committee meeting, we studied carefully the subject, the design, the geography of teaching, the composition of the participants, and neither of us questioned the need for such training. This year there is a special feature: the widespread participation of divisions in different countries of the world, new forms, new methods. A big request from our committee: to support this bill, to allow the Armed Forces of Ukraine and their troops to prepare for the month before the beginning of their initial studies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m1.u64	Valentin Grigorovitch Matthews, Communist faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m1.u65	Please pass the word to Peter Stepanovich Cibenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m1.u66	Peter Stepanovich Cibenko, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m1.u67	Thank you. Communist faction, Peter Cibenko. Dear colleagues! Dear citizens of Ukraine! I want to start with the main one: the faction of the Company of Ukraine will not vote in favour of this bill. And I want to understand the logic of the authors. The point is, when you look at this bill, you realize that there is no change in this world, nothing more permanent than a temporary one year after year. This is before the Supreme Council of Ukraine last year passed a new Law on the Fundamentals of the Interior, on the main principles of Ukraine's foreign and domestic policies. The situation regarding the country’s non-block status has been recorded. But when you look at this draft law, it feels like there's no document. And one more thing I'd like to pay attention to. From year to year, and this year it's no exception, the approach is that if there's military training, let's say Belarus, or the Russian Federation, there's a platoon, one plane, one ship. If the United States, or the United Kingdom, is 1,000 men for 10 days, for 2 weeks and so on, and so forth. Dear colleagues, it seems to me that we, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, do not appear, but clearly, have been determined in the perspective of Ukraine and therefore there is no need to draw troops from the ocean today, techniques from questionable our allies, who are not sure why or how they will teach. So once again, the faction of the Company of Ukraine is consciously, consistently, it has always done so, it will not vote in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m1.u68	Oleg Zarubinski, please, 1 minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m1.u69	Thank you, Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Dear colleagues, when it comes to nonlocking status, it is not about the absence of an army. What is more, it is not that the army is neither professional nor involved in international learning. Moreover, I do not know any country that claims to be a viable army that does not teach, including multinational teachings. That's what everybody does: our neighbours are Russians, Americans, Europeans, Africans are doing, I mean not North Africa, they're doing joint learning. If we can strengthen the military's resilience by passing on experience, by participating in multinational training with those armies that are better than we are, let's be honest, armed and have more experience, that's just a plus. So I think this law, not for politicians, needs to be passed, but for the Ukrainian army. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m1.u70	Taras Blackwall, MP's Reform for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m1.u71	Taras Blackwall, Reforms for the Future. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, I wouldn't even be taking the floor if there wasn't a bit before, an hour later. Well, frankly, an unwise, provocative statement. Well, starting with the fact that Ukraine is not a fixed non-lock state, it's a state that's implementing the principles of non-blocking. And the second thing that really got me interested is that this little red-oligarchic faction is going against Russia. The Russian Armed Forces are the main participants in these teachings, which will be conducted in most of them. Since when did their faction not love Russia so much? And wouldn't that hurt our good contact with the Russian Federation? I'd like to find out. And the law has to be maintained.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m1.u72	Ladies and gentlemen, the matter has been discussed. Let's do this: by making a decision, every MP and every faction will vote for that country with which they want to teach and everything will be normal with us. That is why I am voting on the proposal for approval of the President's proposals contained in the draft Law approving the decision of the President of Ukraine to admit the forces of other states to Ukraine in 2011 to participate in multinational military training. [[Registration number 8440]] to approve the draft law. The registration number again is 8440. Please vote. [[16:54:16]] For 269 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, by factions? Please. Region Party – 180, "BUT – Fatherland" – 1, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 42, communists – 0, "Reforms for the Future" – 20, National Party – 19, non-factional – 7. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose to you the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2011. [[on the identification of the State Agency for Investments and the management of national projects as the main cost manager]]
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m1.u73	Short is the offer. I'll put her to the vote. [[16:55:08]] For 215 Decision taken. The rapporteur is the first Deputy Minister of Finance, Merkovsky Anatoly Ivanovich. Correspondent is the head of the Committee on Budget Affairs, Valery Alexiyovich Baranov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m1.u74	Dear Volodymyr Mihajlovich, distinguished national MPs, you have been presented with proposals for amendments to the State Budget Act 2011. [[on the identification of the State Agency for Investments and the administration of national projects as chief budget manager]] Amendments to the State Budget Act 2011 have been prepared for the implementation of the Presidential Decree of Ukraine since 6 April 2011 on the question of optimizing the system of central executives for the purpose of defining the State Agency for Investment and managing Ukraine's national projects as the chief budget manager, since it is derived from the direction and coordination of the activities of the Ministry of Economic Development and Trade of Ukraine. The bill, in line with the State Agency's proposals for investment and national project management, proposes to redistribute budgetary allocations within the overall scope of the project, i.e. by not increasing the total amount of expenditure, namely: reducing the amount of expenditure under the budget programme "State support for the implementation of innovation and investment projects in the real economy" and increasing expenditure on the corresponding amounts under the budget programmes "Actions for the creation of a positive image of Ukraine" and "State support for the implementation of national projects under co-financing conditions." The total redistribution is 515.2 million dollars. In addition, two budget programmes were renamed “State support for investment projects in the real economy” by the State support for national projects under co-financing proposals from the State Agency for Investment and National Project Management. And there was also a redistribution of another program on the technical and economic justification of national projects to ensure the development of project-based documentation, technical and economic justification. Including by increasing or replenishing statutory capital of state-owned enterprises responsible for implementing national projects. We also made this decision at the Budget Committee meeting.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m1.u75	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m1.u76	A positive decision has been made on this bill with appropriate refinements supported by the Ministry of Finance. So we're asking you to support the bill as a whole, because it doesn't violate the budget balance. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m1.u77	Thank you. Valerius Alexiyovich Baranov, head of the Committee on Budget Affairs
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m1.u78	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! The Committee on Budgetary Questions today considers this bill. The bill is being prepared for the implementation of Presidential Decree No. 1085 of 9.12.10 on optimizing the system of central executive bodies. The bill's position is balanced. The Ministry of Finance, as you have heard, finds it appropriate to accept it. The Chief Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council supports this proposal. As a result of the review, the Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Act amending the Law on the 2001 State Budget, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers, on the basis of the first reading, to be adopted as a basis and as a whole as a law. To clarify the text of the appendix to the bill presented in the Committee to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. For the transcript, I would like to point out that it is necessary for our committee, together with the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, to make these editorial and technical revisions to the text of this law when it is prepared for signature by the Head of the Supreme Council. I'd like to support you. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m1.u79	Yes, thank you. Dear colleagues, have you got the offer? Is there a need to discuss it? It doesn't, does it? Then, since there is no desire to discuss, I am voting on the proposal for a committee to adopt the draft Law as a law amending the Ukrainian Law on the 2011 National Budget, taking into account the proposals contained in the Committee's decision and supported by the Ministry of Finance. [[on the identification of the State Agency for Investments and the management of national projects as the main cost manager]] Please vote. Now, one second. [[17:00:17]] For 278 The law is passed.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m1.u80	Dear colleagues, we are discussing the draft Law on certain issues of debt for natural gas consumption and electricity consumption. [[Registration number 8351]] There is a motion for a reduced procedure, please vote. [[17:00:56]] For 211 Short-term procedure. He'll report. Well, you might as well have four minutes, because you're also the author of the committee. Hell-bent Alexander Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m1.u81	The law is so simple that it doesn't require it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m1.u82	I'm sorry, I'm sorry, Alexander Mikolaiovich, I realized that you're just a reporter as an author, and the committee head will be two minutes. Please, Alexander Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m1.u83	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! First of all, it was a push and cause for this bill to be written by me and my colleague Olejnik. Those people's deputies who work seriously in the district know that every August of each year the mayors of cities, district administrations and districts begin their working day with Naftogaz Ukraine and with the offices of Kiev officials, because it is impossible to launch any heat station to bring heat to housing complexes and budget organizations. It is all because of the accumulation of debts, from 1997 to today, that debt has accumulated as a result of an ineffective regulatory policy on the part of the State. Of course, the State must interfere with tariffs in terms of the purchasing power of the population. But it must intervene in this policy in terms of the budgetary capacity of the country. And when the tariffs are not covered by compensation, the fees are not covered by the payments that the entities and the population make, of course, dues. In addition to debt, pennies and fines are placed on them. And over the past 15 years, there have been 28 billion of such virtual debts that will never be returned to the budget, and they are in claims all the time. So that some smart guy doesn't come up with and include these 28 billion in tariffs, which means he's gonna put our voters on his shoulders, and he's gonna come back through their pockets, and we are.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m1.u84	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m1.u85	We propose these artificially created debts in order to cancel, in order to enable the flow of work to be done properly, without regard to these virtual debts. Please support the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m1.u86	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Vitaly Hometic from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m1.u87	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! The Supreme Council Committee on Finance, Banking, Tax and Customs Policy at its meeting considered Bill 8351, submitted by People’s Deputies Pecklesenk and Olijnik. The bill is designed to provide conditions to increase current calculations for natural gas consumption and electricity produced, transported, and supplied with heat and electricity irrespective of the form of ownership of the operators. The bill provides for a comprehensive write-off of the local budget debt to enterprises for the debt that was created between 1997 and 2010, i.e. the debt that is on 1 January 2010 respectively. The main scientific and expert office recommends that we take it as a basis. The Ministry of Finance also supports the bill. The committee, after considering it, also recommends that this law be adopted on a basis and, if possible, in general. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m1.u88	Please sign up for a discussion. Yes, please show me the names of the national MPs. Alla Alexandrovska, Communist faction. Please come to the rostrum. Then there'll be Alexander Pecklusenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m1.u89	Dear colleagues! On the one hand, the question seems to be understandable and simple, but it is difficult enough to understand, because there is a question of what kind of system should be in our State so that those debts do not arise, are not copied, are not created, and there is no need to write them down. I agree with the drafter of the bill, and on first reading we will support this law, which we really need to adopt. Why, because otherwise, the only way to get another out is to stimulate a rise in tariffs across Ukraine. There is, unfortunately, no other source of money and solution. So that there are no questions of fraud or fraud, I want to give you examples. Long. On my request, we have been provided to our debt committee for gas consumed in the regions of Ukraine. I took my cousin, Harkhovsky. During 2009, 381 million debt was accumulated for the gas consumed. Only for one year! Therefore, when it comes to fraudsters, it is necessary to refer to fraudsters who have made decisions at that time. I mean, we've been trying to solve this problem before. We have adopted a law that has allowed us to cancel our debts and to ensure the sustainable development of energy enterprises. This law is being implemented, but not fully implemented, so clearly the situation needs to be suppressed. However, we Communists believe that some amendments should be made in this law and that, for example, the Government should be obliged to develop a system that would allow us to understand the reason why payments are not paid: whether there are legal persons who consume services and do not pay, these legal persons are income-generating enterprises. Then why do we have to lie to them? We are. We only cheat debts on top of them, but we don't cheat debts.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m1.u90	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m1.u91	This does not cancel the debt of specific debtors, the law states that this is the case. This is paragraph 2.1.2., which says that those economic actors who are to and will still have to pay off their debt should be copied into special accounts and used in investment programmes: some, some, some, some, some, some, some, some, some, some, some, some, some, some, some, some, some, some, etc.. I'd like us to know how much we owe and where we owe it. You and I have an opportunity in Ukraine's budget every year to defuse the difference in gas prices. This is the position of the Housing and Communal Services Act.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m1.u92	Thank you. Vladimir Olijnik instead of Alexander Pecklusenko, faction of the Party of the Regions. Next is going to be To speak Oleg Zarubinsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m1.u93	Dear colleagues, this problem has accumulated over the years, since 1997, and everyone has seen it well and knew when the government's policies have failed with regard to regulatory intervention in pricing, because it was necessary, safely, somewhere lower and lower to have tariffs but compensated from the budget. Usually, these costs were not enough. And as a result of all of these operations: both fines and pennies, and so much debt. And everyone knows the urban, rural, and village heads and heads of administration, which problem begins every autumn: that the old, previous, and so on debts have to be repaid. Now the question is, Who is involved? More than 90 percent of this applies to enterprises that have a full form of ownership: state, or municipal, or partly municipal, and state. And in this respect, we solve the problem so that these debts, these amounts, are not translated into the population sooner or later because of the inclusion in tariffs. Because today, once again, it is impossible to solve this problem. It's practically accumulated over the years, and it's created a problem of the insolvency of everyone before. One in front of the other. And what we're doing is we're finally going to fix the financial part of those enterprises that provide the heat, the energy of our citizens, and, of course, not to allow these amounts to be translated into citizens' tariffs. So this bill needs, in my opinion, to be supported as one that solves this problem. Sooner or later, it needs to be decided by the state.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m1.u94	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Next will be Paul Zebrowsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m1.u95	Oleg Zarubinski, People's Party. Dear colleagues, I would like to ask questions that I have no answer to. Clearly, recovery must take place in this area, a very complex sphere. But I have a question. Debts from legal persons are deducted. You know, for many years, debt owed to individuals -- our citizens. And some of them have already paid these debts. She paid for the money. What's going on now? It would seem that these people would have to make two bets on these debts. Is that what I'm saying? That's right. So I would like to have an answer, including, and when, apparently, after the vote, they prepare for the second reading, give an answer, how, who will account for the fact that people have already paid what they have owed them. And I also have a question that I don't have an answer to either: when it comes to debt write-offs from utilities, utilities, government, state-owned utilities, I can basically understand. But there are enterprises in private format. In that case, they're now working, they're getting completely at the expense of it, so now they're non-profitable, so they're taking this money out of their pocket right now and they're paying for it? Can you believe that? No, I don't believe it, for example. So these two questions, I think the subjects of the legislative initiative need to work out more. What about people like being with people who have already paid off their debts? Who will consider it? Perhaps legal persons, perhaps parliament? I don't know who. And the second question is, what about private businesses? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m1.u96	Paul Zebravsky, the faction of "Our Ukraine" is the People's Self-Defense.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m1.u97	Paul Zebravsky, "Ukrainian Platform". I want to say that this bill, unfortunately, on the budget committee, imagine that the budget doesn't get 24 billion, hasn't been considered. And today there was a budget committee, and we didn't even have a budget committee. It says what they're doing, they're just stealing money in sum, think about it, 24 billion dollars! They're talking about people. There is no attitude toward this. The people's payments are due today, and they'll pay the debts they have. The same difference between tariffs, and every year, Naftogazu adds a difference in gas to cover the difference in tariffs for gas prices. It has nothing to do with people, with taking care of people. There is a question of cheating. The bonds are all private, they operate the distribution networks of government property, and we don't put any money in them, and we write them off this debt. Please tell me, after we write down 24 billion dollars, will the housing and utility sector be better? What we're doing here is to direct the price to be adequate, so today how many kilocalories there are going to be heat, not those boilers that are standing, and so on. We're not doing anything. In principle, we are giving 24 billion dollars today: (a) partly to the homeless, (b) partly to private entities. And once again, the question is, maybe someone wants to privatize the heat, and they need to be cleared of the debt they have. Such an opinion is very much entitled to exist. Because if we make up for it now, the heat will have no debt. And we have in the Privatization Act next year just this clean egg is going to be delivered free of charge into the hands of those who are going to exploit it. I believe that it is impossible to vote in favour of this bill both legally and practically.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m1.u98	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. I'm voting on the proposal of a committee on the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on certain issues of debt for natural gas and electricity consumed. [[Registration number 8351]] Please vote. [[17:15:56]] For 253 Decision taken. The factions, please. The Party of Regions – 179, BUT – "The Fatherland" – 0, "Our Ukraine – The People's Self-Defense" – 2, the Communists – 25, "Reforms for the Future" – 20, the People's Party – 20, the non-fractional – 7. I am announcing for consideration the draft Act amending the Code of Taxation of Ukraine. [[on taxation of natural gas and electricity]] [[Registration number 8352]] Under the reduced procedure, the proposal to consider matters. Please vote. [[17:16:41]] For 218. Decision taken. The reporter is Alexander Pecklesenko. The focal point will be the head of the Vitaly Homutinnik Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m1.u99	Dear colleagues! I thank those who voted in favour of this law for those who have made critical remarks. And in the wake of this law, a second law is proposed, as if it were the opposite side of the same medal. In order for us to complete this process, the bill is proposed to write down the same companies before the budget, and I repeat that these are mainly public and communal companies. Now, a few words on the issue of the debate, namely: these debts were created, not by default, but by the imperfections of the tariff policy, but mainly by pennies and fines, they are nowhere to be found. And it makes me very sad when a smart, nutritious person from the budget committee says that this is being prepared for privatization in order to minimize. If even an enterprise is sold, it will not be sold at the price of debts but will be sold at the market price. At a market price! Therefore there are debts or no debts – it does not affect the market price, it can only be positive. Therefore, honourable colleagues, in order to put an end to this issue once and for all, please support this bill, I repeat, it is logical and stems from the adoption of the first. If we do not support the second draft, there is no logic in the adoption of the first. Thank you for your attention, I hope you will support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m1.u100	Vitaly Hometic, head of the committee. Please, about the position of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m1.u101	Dear colleagues! Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! This bill is certainly related to a previous bill that we have just adopted. And if the previous bill was about debt write-offs between economic operators, that is, the National Shareholder Company Naftogaz Ukraine and its subsidiaries and district heat power plants, then the bill says that it is necessary to write off the debts of the same enterprises before the State Budget of Ukraine. These changes are made to the Ukrainian Tax Code and are due to a complex financial situation in which the state price and tariff regulations provide heat - efficient enterprises and operators involved in activities related to the supply of natural gas and electricity at a regulated tariff. So we need to adopt Bill 8352, given that 8351 was adopted. The committee proposes to support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m1.u102	Dear colleagues, please sign up for the speech. Yes, please, Alla Alexandrovska, the Communist faction. Then there'll be Mikola Kulczynski.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m1.u103	Dear colleagues! These two Bills 8352, which we are currently considering, and the previous Bills 8351. They are, of course, linked to the same issue. There really is a problem here, but to some extent the government is responsible, not only for this, but also for all of the previous ones, and for the Supreme Council. There's no way we can give one clear answer to a simple question. We want high tariffs and all consumers to pay for these tariffs, but we want poor people to have the assistance of a State with a form of subsidies. This policy has been going on for many years. We don't take into account that poor people can't get subsidies because we have a shadow economy, many people can't prove their income. We have placed enormous obstacles to the ability of a person, or family, to obtain a grant. Recently, Azarov said that we are helping people, we have done, please take subsidies. Nikolai Janović and the Government do not take into account, and we must also take this into account and change the situation that we have placed enormous obstacles that a person cannot overcome a poor, needy family cannot receive a grant. I think that as well as to me, voters come to you with these questions. My grandmother comes in and says, "I have a prescribed grandson who can't find a job who can't give me a certificate of where he is and what he gets and I can't form a grant, I'm crying." Therefore, once again, these laws must be passed and the tariff arrangements should be put in place in order to have access to subsidies from poor families. That will be the normal public approach that we, the Communists, welcome. The rich have to pay in full, the poor have to pay at a cheap rate, which will provide them with subsidies, and we have to do it with you. We have to write down the difference in gas tariffs with you on the basis of the Housing and Communal Services Act. We have the right from the State budget to allocate money and to lower the price of gas for consumers, for the population. And we have to do that, and unfortunately we don't. The Budget Act requires the introduction of this money.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m1.u104	Zinovo Shkutak, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m1.u105	Dear national MPs, of course, the justifications that are here today in order to adopt this law do not correspond at all to any reality. I am reading an explanatory note, an official explanatory note translated to this legislation, to this law: "4 billion 916 million debts for foam and fines for natural gas companies before the DK "Gaz Ukraine". 7 million 400 million debts for foam and fines for natural gas operators at regulated tariffs of fraud before the DK "Gaz Ukraine". DK Gaz Ukraine to the national stockholder Naftogaz Ukraine is 12 billion. Energy. "Energy" of energy-efficient energy supply entities at regulated cloud tariffs before DK "Energy" at the sum of billions of dollars. Energy in front of electricity companies is one billion dollars. Powerworks in front of power companies on the interstate power grid, 861 million dollars. Energy before the Wind Energy Fund, who's heard about this energy fund, is 310 million. Now all I want to do is read out the conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. The project proposes to write off the debt that has arisen among the listed management objects. At the same time, the relationship between fuel and energy operators is regulated on the basis of farm agreements made in accordance with economic legislation. As a result, the obligations that result from their content should be properly fulfilled. The introduction of the debt write-off mechanism will stimulate the owners to default, weaken contractual and payment discipline in the energy sector. And let's also focus on what's in terms of the part.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m1.u106	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m1.u107	Article 25 of the Ukrainian Government’s governing of farming relations is prohibited. Once again, this is a criminal act that will give birth to all citizens of Ukraine 24 billion debts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m1.u108	Ladies and gentlemen, the matter is closed. I am voting on the proposal of the Committee on the Adoption of the Law on Amendments to the Tax Code of Ukraine. [[on taxation of natural gas and electricity]] [[Registration number 8352]] Please vote. [[17:26:24]] For 263 The law is passed. Thus, we made decisions on these two points of discussion. Dear colleagues, there's a proposal, let's take a project this quickly, a decree to mark the 300th anniversary of the founding of the Oleshkovsky Sici. You have this document, you have the committee's decision. I'm just suggesting, my fellow Members, that a little clarification be made, namely, that the text contains the draft decision "to approve the cost of carrying out measures of 3 million 500 thousand," so I propose, the first paragraph, to support the initiative of the City Council of Turupina on marking at the national level of autumn 2011 the 300th anniversary of the founding of Oleshkovsky Sic, the second, to recommend to the Cabinet of Ministers, to recommend the setting up of a cost of 3 million 500 thousand and beyond the text, paragraph 5 delete, instead of the position that was fixed, the monitoring of the implementation of this decision to entrust to the Main Committee according to the objects of knowledge, delete and write "the decree takes effect from the date of its adoption". That's the offer. Please, Vladimir Alexandrovich Yavorowski, head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m1.u109	Dear colleagues, the committee absolutely supports the draft of this decision. This is a truly unique historical period, the Oleshkovsky City, which has to be marked. She had been forgotten for a long time. And the fact that the people's deputy from the Zuravko region brought it up, the committee supports it 100 percent. But, Vladimir Mikhailovich, we have a working standard very specific that we are making drafts of such regulations. We're not writing a specific amount anywhere, we're assigning it to the Cabinet of Ministers. So let's not go beyond that, because we're tomorrow, today we're bringing cranes, tomorrow someone's bringing in, let's say, from a minority, it's already 5 or 6 million. You can't accept that. This should be done by the executive branch. That's why we need to, we don't need to, we need to take the second position, the committee requires, we need to approve the cost, it's not our competence. And to recommend the Cabinet of Ministers in a two-week period, and to monitor the implementation of this decision, to entrust the Committee on Culture and Spirituality, not the Main Committee. So everything is going to be exactly the way it's going to be. I'm asking you to back it up. There are no subtexts, no underwater currents. It's just a normal draft decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m1.u110	Dear colleagues! There's absolutely logic in the committee head's words. Why 3,500? Maybe four million. So I concluded that since the document was proposed, it was softened, recommended, and considered. So let's do it this way. I will now put the decision to the vote as a basis. If we support this, I'll put the vote on removing this item and then we'll figure it out. No objections? I'm putting to the vote a motion for adoption on the basis of a draft ruling, please vote. [[Registration number 8361]] [[17:29:44]] For 267 Decision taken. I'm putting to the vote a motion to remove the sum that we're asking the Cabinet of Ministers to take appropriate action. Please vote in favour of this proposal. [[17:30:12]] For 263 Decision taken. So I'm putting to the vote the proposal for a draft Decision as the Order with the provision of paragraph 5, that it takes effect from the moment it's published. Please vote. Registration number 8361. [[17:30:43]] For 264 I'll take the order. Now, dear colleagues, we are going to consider a draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts on national commissions that regulate natural monopolies in the field of communication and information, securities markets and financial services. [[Registration number 8403]] There is a suggestion to consider this issue in a simplified way. Please vote. Please vote in favour of the reduced procedure. [[17:31:25]] For 206 Decision taken. The reporter is Justice Minister Lavrinovich Alexander Volodymyrovich. Correspondent is Head of the Committee on Finance, Banking, Tax and Customs Policy, Vitaly Yuriovich Homutinnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m1.u111	Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! Your view is on the draft law introduced by the President of Ukraine in the context of administrative reform in our country. The project proposes to amend 55 laws governing the status and organization of commission activities that regulate natural monopolies in the field of communication and information, securities markets and financial services. In particular, these are laws on natural monopolies, on telecommunications, on government regulation of the Ukrainian securities market, on electricity, and a number of other laws. The essence of the project is that all regulators working with natural monopolies have the same status, the same form of design, that the qualifications of potential members of commissions should be put on display and that three higher authorities should participate in the formation of regulators: the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the President of Ukraine, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Each of them would appoint three members of each of the regulators and have them choose their own head at their meeting, who will take office after the act of the President of Ukraine has been approved. Thus, it is proposed that we take a step that will allow regulators to deconsist on the market of monopolies from the executive system and thus create favourable conditions for them to work exclusively to ensure the efficient use of public resources and to create opportunities for competitive action that will only be within the limits allowed for natural resources.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m1.u112	All of you, Alexander Volodymyrovich? Thank you. Vitaly Yuriovich Homutinnik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m1.u113	Honourable Volodymira Mihajlovich, honourable colleagues, discussed at his meeting a draft law amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts on national commissions that regulate natural monopolies in the field of communications and information on securities and financial services markets submitted by the President of Ukraine. In fact, this bill applies to five committees – a commission dealing with financial services markets, a Commission on Stock Market Securities, a Commission on Electricity, a Commission on Housing and Communal Tariffs and a Commission on Communications. The President proposes that these commissions be effectively independent regulators and the corresponding proposal in this bill that both the appointment and the administration of the respective commissions be carried out on a parity basis between the Cabinet of Ministers, the President’s Administration and the Supreme Council, i.e. nine authorized persons are appointed three on each side. This ensures the independence of the controller in one area or another. This bill has European experience. And after reviewing this bill, a comprehensive bill on the committee was clearly recommended by the committee to support this project and to adopt it as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m1.u114	Dear colleagues, so, shall we vote, or who insists on speaking? You don't? Then I put to the vote a proposal by the adoption committee on the basis of the draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts on national commissions implementing national regulations on natural monopolies, in the area of communication and information, securities markets and financial services. [[Registration number 8403]] Please vote. [[17:36:47]] For 247 Decision taken. The draft Law on the Financial Recovery of the State Enterprise "Production Union of the Southern Macarov Machine Plant" is being announced for consideration. [[Registration number 8425]] I'm betting on a motion for a reduced procedure to address this issue. The reporter is the first deputy head of the State Space Agency, Bowlin Sergey Alexiyovich. Correspondent is Head of the Committee's Subcommittee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship of Chechtov Mikhail Vasilovich. [[17:37:19]] For a hundred and Decision taken. Please, Sergey Alexiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m1.u115	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The state-owned association South Engineering plant called Makarova is one of the main enterprises in the space sector of Ukraine and the only manufacturer in Ukraine of space rocket launchers such as Zenit, Cyclone to implement the space programs of Ukraine and the Russian Federation, as well as international space projects called Sea Launch, Ground Launch, Cyclone-4, Dnipro, Tauros-2. Up to 90 percent of the production volume of space and aviation companies is directed towards exports. The company's financial difficulties over the period 2008-2010 were due to the absence of orders for the production of Zenit rocket launchers from Silonch, in connection with the 2007 missile accident and the bankruptcy of Silonch. As a result, in February 2009, the company was unable to repay the loan involved in international projects worth $107 million. And the Ministry of Finance has made payments in favour of the creditor. Accordingly, the company became indebted to the State. In early 2011, the company was commissioned to produce 30 Zenith rockets for the Marine Launch and Land Launch projects, components for the American Tauros-2 rockets, as well as the order for the production of Cylon-4 rockets for a joint Ukrainian-Brazilian project. This will ensure the start-up of the company for the next 15 years. However, the situation of the company is now significantly complicated by the acute lack of circulation costs and the existence of debt to Ukraine’s Ministry of Finance. In order to preserve the production of missile-space technology in Ukraine and to meet international obligations in the field of space activities, financial recovery measures are being proposed.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m1.u116	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m1.u117	restructuring the debt of an enterprise to the State, as well as providing State support in the form of compensation for high loan rates involved by an enterprise to fulfil its obligations under international agreements. This will enable the production of missile and space technology in Ukraine to be preserved, will ensure the execution of international contracts and commitments in the field of missile and space technology production, and will preserve the expertise of Ukrainian enterprises.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m1.u118	Thank you. It is clear what needs to be done, what needs to be done. Have a seat, please. Mikhailo Vasilovich Chechetov from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m1.u119	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! The Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship, at its meeting on 11 May this year, reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law on Financial Recovery, the Draft Law on Financial Recovery of the State Enterprise "Production Union of the South Car Construction Plant O.M. Makarov", submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. [[Registration number 8425]] The purpose of the bill is to prevent the insolvency of the state-owned enterprise "Production Union of the South Engineering Plant O.M. Makarov" because of the lack of circulation costs and the negative socio-economic consequences for the Dnipropetrov region and the space sector of Ukraine. During the discussion of the bill, the Ukrainian National Deputies, members of the committee, stressed that the space sector ensures the gradual development of the economy of the state, supports the necessary level of its scientific and technological potential, ensures access to international markets in high-tech production, and unanimously, I stress, unanimously supported the proposed bill. The members of the committee decided on a draft Ukrainian Law on the Financial Recovery of the State Enterprise "Production Union of the Southern Makarov Machine Plant" to submit a proposal to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to accept it as a basis. [[Registration number 8425]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m1.u120	Dear colleagues, there is no objection to upholding the position of the committee, and accepting this bill as a basis? You don't? I am voting on this proposal, namely the adoption of the draft Law on the Financial Recovery of the State Enterprise "Production Union of the Southern Macarov Machine Plant". [[Registration number 8425]] Please vote. [[17:42:29]] For 259. Decision taken. And a request to the committee: prepare him quickly for consideration in the second reading. Dear colleagues, the draft Law on the Announcement of the Natural Areas of the City of Hmilnik of Vinnitsky Region is being reviewed by a State-owned resort. You have this document. The question is obviously understandable. Are there any outstanding circumstances regarding this bill? I think that's good. The more protected resort areas we have, the better it will be for Ukraine. Is there no objection to accepting this law? I would like to vote on the proposal for the adoption of the Ukrainian Law "On the Announcement of Natural Areas of the City of Hmilnik of the Vinick Region by a resort of State importance", registration number 8271, please vote. [[17:43:41]] For 265 The law is passed. Thank you. A draft Act amending article 1 of the Ukrainian Child Protection Act is being announced for consideration. [[for Multi-Children]] [[Registration number 8314]] Yeah, why don't we look at it in a simplified way? I'm betting on the vote on this proposal, please support. [[17:44:28]] For 211 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, here's the thing, because there's something wrong with the schedule, there's no reporter, there's no waiting for it, there's an incarceration from the committee. Is there a need to discuss this? Whether to put it on the vote and accept it as a basis, and then we will continue to do so. In view of your unanimous position, I am voting on the proposal to adopt a draft Act amending article 1 of the Ukrainian Child Protection Act. [[for Multi-Children]] Registration number 8314. Please vote. [[17:45:20.]] For 262 Decision taken. What else do we need to take now? That's how the Supreme Council works. It can make a decision to keep it that way. Dear colleagues, we are now on schedule. It is proposed that you consider the draft Act amending article 9 of the Ukrainian Act on Measures against and Abuse of Drugs, Psychotropic Substances and Precursors. [[Registration number 8158]] A brief procedure suggests that we consider it. Please vote. [[17:46:28]] For 215 Decision taken. The rapporteur is the head of the committee's subcommittee on the fight against organized crime and corruption, Omelchenko Grigori Omelanovic.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m1.u121	Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! At the meeting of the committee on April 6, 2011, a bill introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine was considered. I would like to point out that all members of the committee representing all the political factions unanimously recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine reject the bill and send it to further the subject of the legislative initiative of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. One article, it would seem, could be that the position of the committee is changing editorially. The question is only one, and I would like to draw your attention to this, especially to the representatives of the Ukrainian law enforcement agencies, who have dealt with these issues before they are elected by the Ukrainian people's deputies. The question on which the members of our committee have made a decision is unanimously, I stress, and this is supported by the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Expert Office, which currently uses the word “systematic use or collection of narcotic drugs” in article 9 of the Act. The Cabinet of Ministers suggests that the word "systematic" be replaced by the words "three facts" and everything. What it represents systematically, you understand perfectly, two or more times what "three facts" is. This could be a one-time thing, and it's a path for a variety of provocations. internal affairs officials. And if you want, they even dropped three packets at some community center and so on. And after discussing these issues, the committee has decided that we are sending this bill to the Cabinet of Ministers to work with us, because there are two additions that are very nice: there is an increasing number of places where there is mass population. And that's what it takes, because there's a new one.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m1.u122	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m1.u123	One second. Too bad there's no representative of the Cabinet of Ministers. We're going to go to a meeting and we're going to make this decision, so we're going to adopt this bill in early June, which is this article that's being written, right, just like the law. So I ask you to support the committee's decision and send this bill to the Cabinet of Ministers for further work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m1.u124	Yes, please sign up for the performance. Please, Beavs, the Communist faction. Shershun.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m1.u125	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! Indeed, Gregory Omelyanovich said quite right. The point is that the committee was looking at the Cabinet's proposal for this bill. But I would like to point out once again that the idea of this bill is that if three protocols for the use of drugs or precursors have been drawn up by law enforcement officials at an institution or other institution during the year, by placing an internal affairs body or other body in a local government, such an institution may be closed. We've come out of the fact that in principle, it can trigger and provoke a certain process of corruption, let's say. But given the fact that on the other hand, we have to fight drugs actively and seriously. There's this proposal, and I'm going to take the liberty of suggesting, as it were, Gregory Ivanovich, and I'm going to ask you to support me, to vote in the first reading. And for the second reading, to come up with, as it were, specific proposals on the part of the settlement of the matter definitively. Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m1.u126	Mikola Shershun, faction of the People's Party. A smile to prepare.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m1.u127	Mikola Shershun, faction of the People's Party. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! As for me, it is entirely appropriate that the project should identify the number of cases of drug use and distribution that will result in responsibility for the managers of the establishments where this has taken place. Perhaps this will make the owners of discotheques, clubs, bars better track illegal activity in their establishments. But once again, the new wording of article 9 of the Law on Measures to Resist the Illicit Traffic in Narcotic Drugs requires substantial work. The concept of their analogs in the new article is not correctly used, nor is the unclear mechanism for local self - government authorities to stop the activities of mass institutions. Most importantly, neither the bill nor the law's proper drafting have established a way of stopping such institutions. So we need to develop a mechanism to implement the rules of article 9. But I support my colleague that he still needs to be accepted as a basis right now, taking into account the comments made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m1.u128	Thank you. Garbage Grigory, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m1.u129	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national MPs, I want to say a few words on this point, from this bill my point of view. The first question is, Is there really a solution to the problem of organized drug access in our country? In my opinion, this bill does not decide at all. Does it improve the situation? It does not improve because it is not complex. Think about the figure that some experts in our country have today turned into a transit country based on natural and unnatural drugs, which we are one of the leading countries in which drug use is being used, and a large part of these drugs remain in Ukraine, which today has involved more than one million of our citizens in the use of narcotics, drugs. The second question. The volume of some experts, drug specialists for $3 billion in our country. Approximately 150,000 people die from drugs, drug use. Then I have a question for the government. And to the Ministry of Management. If the Ministry of Internal Affairs is assessing or accepting the threat, the national threat of this violent tragedy to ours, the plague of drugs, then we need to introduce a comprehensive programme to combat this phenomenon. Otherwise, at the rate we grow each year, 100,000 more people are using drugs in our country, and soon there will be no one to work. So I'm going to the government, I'm going to the government, I'm going to the department of profile, and I'm going to provide a comprehensive program and a comprehensive law, including a lifetime of drug trafficking, distribution, transit and so on and so forth. It's time for our country to say clearly and clearly whether we're fighting or we're creating an anchor for the struggle, or an anchor for the corruption system that we're in today's law enforcement agencies.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m1.u130	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. I am. One minute, please, Zarubinsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m1.u131	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. You know, I took the word, really, 1 minute to support my fellow Smither. And my support is that if people weren't interested in drug trafficking and they were fighting these drugs, consumption and distribution would be less orderly. And everyone understands that when a worker, including the law enforcement authorities, releases his neighborhood, which he smokes, from his small, tiny bags, it does not mean that there is no roofing on a large scale. At the level of those who engage in large parties. So the key point, I'd like to point out, is one. Unless illegal drug traffic is managed and coordinated by law enforcement agencies, the problem will be reduced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m1.u132	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Question completed. I'm as solid as I am with those who say we need to work on it. Because there could be cuts here. There can be no doubt about it. But at the same time, my soul, they say, lies with those who say that this is a matter that needs to be decided and fought more fundamentally. So I suggest, really, let's support it in the first reading. And we're going to ask a profile committee, and there are really people who understand what this is and they're considering these issues so that when they prepare for second reading, they can make smart, constructive proposals. Because this evil is more and more, unfortunately, coming to our homes. And it won't be clear if we don't support him now. So I suggest in the first reading. And asking the committee to go as you know how to do it. I am voting on adoption as a basis in the first reading of Bill No. 8158, the draft Act amending article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on Measures to Resist and Abuse the Illicit Traffic in Narcotic Drugs, Psychotropic Substances and Precursors. Please vote. [[17:57:40]] For 259. Thank you, dear colleagues, for your understanding, were accepted in the first reading. And I'm going to continue for 15 minutes, and we're going to consider another law and that's it. The draft Act amending article 18 of the Ukrainian Police Act is under consideration. [[on the training of professionals]] [[Registration number 8210]] There's a proposal for a reduced procedure, please support. [[17:58:20]] For 211 Supported. From the committee – Malishev Vladimir Stepanović, head of the committee's subcommittee on law enforcement, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m1.u133	Thank you. Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! I know you're tired. Let's work for a few more minutes. The Committee has considered the law. There has been a very serious and problematic situation in police education. It didn't come out yesterday or today. Just a few facts and figures, think of it, in the last two years, the system has received nearly 14,000 bracelets from the State budget and has trained nearly 14,000 professionals, but only half of them have returned to work in the internal affairs office and the rest have gone to work as a citizen. Question: "How do I get the government money back?" We have used the experience of the German police and other countries where it is specifically written: a police officer has completed a school or an academy, he has a duty to work with the police, or, for example, he has been dismissed for negative reasons, which means that he has been trained, that money is counted in court. We propose the same: there is a contract between the listener and the Ministry of the Interior, which provides for all these issues. I would like to support this bill because it is also supported by the Chief Scientific and Expert Office and all militia personnel. Thank you for your attention. And in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m1.u134	Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up for the performance. Please, Samuel. She's got Smitch behind her.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m1.u135	I thank you very much and I would like to say that I fully support the rapporteur on this issue, especially that this issue is practically settled even more when the Prime Minister of Ukraine was Victor Janukovich of the Government Order of 1 March 2007. There he was considered in this decree and the established order that he gave us, and by law we are regulating him today, our esteemed reporter. I mean, it's a really, really serious problem right now, and it's a pretty serious reason for you to have to pay back the public funds that have been lost to the higher education institutions of the militia. And that's a moral moment. A child who wanted to work was unable to give in. The person who did so simply for the sake of the challenge quits his education or quits his job. This project was studied by Kharkiv National University of Internal Affairs, and experts have concluded that it is well - founded and is offered to be accepted. And with these conclusions, the participants of the round table, which we held on April 8, this year, where the Rectors of the higher education institutions of the militia, as well as the staff of the central and regional internal affairs offices, participated. So this bill we need to adopt, and I support my colleague's opinion that not only should I accept it in the first reading, but we should adopt it as the law of Ukraine. All the more, once again, all the laws regulated by the regulation, we need to move these rules into the Ukrainian Law.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m1.u136	Thank you. George Smythuch.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m1.u137	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! I will personally support this bill in the first reading. Why, then, in the first reading? So let's think about it. We all know that in higher-skilled colleges, there is a very high level of competition for all departments without exception in all universities. Why is this happening? Well, it happens a lot, you know. What if a student is a student who goes to school, he's freed from serving in the army, right? If this is the case, he solves two questions: he doesn't have a term service -- once and gets a higher legal education -- two. How Can I Solve the Question? Is it necessary to do what the bill proposes — to compensate or not to compensate? There are many reasons why a student or a graduate of a university can’t continue by completing a training college. Service. And this should also be considered carefully in the adoption of the law as a whole. Because it cannot be said that all of them avoid going through the ministry or carrying out their duties. There are dozens of reasons why a person may not be able to do so. And you can't go up there to the same level, so to speak, to measure in this direction. So I propose to accept this bill as a basis, and to listen, maybe colleagues will pay attention to some of the circumstances that might address some of the problems that arise in the case of our citizens' education and service. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m1.u138	Thank you. One minute. Beams.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m1.u139	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, I'll take your time for 30 seconds. It is said that there is nothing more convincing than statistics. Over the past 10 years, 200,000 people have been released from the militia system. For 2010 alone, 19.5,000. The system just turned into a frame-up system to nowhere. So one more number for example. On average, the former Soviet Union was freed by about one and a half million police officers. Therefore, the proposals made today by Mališev’s colleague and by the committee of profile are absolutely fair. And for this bill, it is absolutely necessary to vote today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-12-m1.u140	Thank you. Dear colleagues, those who speak of this problem are right. Regrettably, the problem is not only with militia educational institutions, but the problem is in general in the State. If I'm not mistaken, this year there are more places in higher education than high school graduates. I mean, I'm sorry, every doppelganger becomes a student. What kind of specialists they're going to be, that's understandable. That's one thing. The other one. Most colleges do not have a national distribution. Even those specialties and those students who learn at the expense of the State. So you and I are spending the state budget, we don't know what. That's what this is all about. You and I have made similar decisions on military students about what they should do, the same thing here, of course, in militias. Sadly, not surprisingly, it is good that every police school yesterday has become an average university and a higher education. That's good, let's have all the militias, including the post, with higher education. But if he learns, he learns at the expense of the State, he has to work at the needs of the State, or he has to pay the resources that the State has spent on its preparation. That's why the Cabinet of Ministers and the profile committee, and those of you who spoke, are absolutely right. Go out and serve. You don't want to give up the money the state's spent on you. I'm voting on the adoption of Bill 8210 on amendment to article 18 of the Ukrainian Police Act. [[on the training of professionals]] Please vote. [[18:07:25]] For 249 Thank you. I'll take that as a base. Let's vote on the proposal that the Committee should be brief and prepare for consideration, please vote. [[18:07:52]] For 236 Thank you, the decision is made. Are we going to consider the law yet? Oh, no? At this evening's meeting of the Supreme Council, I declare closed. Tomorrow morning, at 10 a.m., you and I will have an hour of questions to the government to answer questions about the events of May 9th in Lviv, Minister of Interior. Then we will consider budgeting issues for the next year. And then we'll hear information from the Attorney General's Office about what we've accepted today and where we're going to show time.
