ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:01:32]] Cards were registered in the 365 National Deputies Sessional Hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today the birthday of Ukrainian national deputies Ahemtova Renata Leonidovich, aged 45, and Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich. Please welcome our colleagues and wish them every success. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, I give you information on the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the plenary meetings on September 20, 2011. 32 agendas have been considered. As a result of their consideration, 5 laws and 2 decrees were passed, 11 bills were passed on the basis, 1 bill was sent to the Committee to prepare for re-reading, 4 bills were returned to the subject of the law of the legislative initiative, 6 bills were rejected. Honorable national MPs, in accordance with article 25 of the Rules, are given 30 minutes on Wednesday for statements by national deputies with applications, requests, reports, and so forth. Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up for the speech. Names, please. Alexander Goodima, "BUT is the Fatherland." Fomin will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u2	Please hand over to the national deputy Pavlovski.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u3	Andrey Pavlowski, please, the Faction "BUT is "The Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u4	Andrey Pavlovski, faction of "Blok Timoshenko – Fatherland". Respectable compatriots! The well-known Asian word for "crovosis" was a symbol of civil cynicism and the state robbery of ordinary citizens, the solution to their problems. And the government budget for 2012, in which the government continues to drink the blood of the Ukrainian people, is a powerful confirmation. In order to maintain the bureaucratic apparatus of the higher authorities, the local authorities plan to spend 16.6 billion dollars. To compare the social protection of Chernobyl, Afghans, children of war, people with disabilities with only 7.5 billion dollars of social security. That means that in order to keep the "loved one" the authorities spend more money than all social programs and on all the socially vulnerable. At the same time, the reform regime of Yanuković introduces a pension genocide and deprives the social assistance and benefits of 16 categories of citizens, while increasing the funding of penal, police bodies, perhaps to explain with rubber stakes and gas how much better we will live in 2012. With the aim of forcing the Party of the Regions to implement Janukovič's promises by the opposition, the "Fatherschina" faction registered a bill on raising social standards from January 1, 2012, namely: the establishment of a minimum pension of 1200 dollars, as promised, and the minimum wage of 1,506 dollars. We demand that this bill be immediately incorporated into the agenda and considered before the budget is adopted. [[9177]] The anti-national anti-social policy of the Yanukovich dictatorship is causing a fair indignation of people that we saw yesterday under the Supreme Council during the Afghans and Chernobyl protests. To break the tide of the national protest, dictator Yanukovicz gave up early for playing the leaders of the opposition of Julius Timoshenko, Yuri Lucenka, the young patriots. Fellow countrymen, demand that justice be improved, that justice be restored in our country, that social protection be restored, and that political prisoners be freed. We demand that we listen to the demands of the European community and immediately release all political prisoners, Julius Timoshenko and Yuri Lucenka, who are slowly being killed in prison without medical care. We demand that all political prisoners be released.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u5	National MP Vasil Kravchuk instead of Fomin, faction "BUT" is "Fatherland". Please, your word. Next is George Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u6	Basil Krawczuk, Faction "BUT" – "Fathership", Hmelnickin. For three months now, the Pecher Court has held a disgraceful court over the leader of the opposition, the leader of the Fatherland Party, Yulia Timoshenko, and it is rude and cynical, in violation of all the rules of the judiciary and the right to defence. Judge Rodion Kiriev, in carrying out a political order, ignores the defence witnesses and documents that indicate that there is no criminal element as such. The peak of a citizen’s rights is the fact that during the month the judge does not allow medical examinations to be carried out by doctors entrusted to Julia Timoshenko. Such a political court is incompatible with the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, generally accepted by moral standards. There is no doubt that after leaving Timoshenko to play, Yanukovich’s regime wants to suppress the opposition before next year’s parliamentary elections. Today, Janukovic has absolute control over the executive, legislative, and judicial branches of power. And only the real opposition led by Julius Timoshenko remains uncontrollable to him. But when Timoshenko is tortured, the authorities are pursuing another goal: trying to hide their inability to deliver any of the President's promises to the electorate. The more time that separates us from the inauguration of Viktor Yanukovich, the more obvious the promised improvement of life is now for the Ukrainians to expect in vain, and the accusations against the previous government seem ridiculous. Returning to the so - called charge at Yulia Tymoshenko’s address on the gas treaties, it should be emphasized that it saved the country’s authority during the gas crisis, assuming responsibility for solving the problem. By the time the document was signed, blue fuel had been cut off to Europe for the third time, and our country's industry was at the brink of a collapse in energy. It is said that if God wants to punish a person, he takes away his sanity. In signing Julia Timoshenko's sentence, the current authorities are signing it primarily because the consequences of wanting to quit playing and remove the opposition leader from the political arena and avenge their helplessness will hurt our electorate, the prospect of European integration. During his visit to Poland, Janukovic received the last yellow card from Europe. President of Poland informed Yanukovic that the process over Timoshenko could have a negative impact on Ukraine's relations with the European Union, including the signing of the Free Trade Agreement and the Association Agreement. I call for the immediate cessation of the disgraceful court in the Pecher Court, the release of Julia Timoshenko from custody, and the case to be closed because of the absence of crime. The political persecution of opposition and its leader today can be the last step toward international isolation. Surrender! You're not judging Julia Timoshenko today, you're sentencing Ukraine's future. Stop until it's too late. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u7	The word is given by Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin, the faction "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense", I remind you, the nominee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u8	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! Dear Ukrainian people! First of all, let me welcome you to our Lady's birthday. Let her cover the entire Ukrainian nation with her Amophorus, giving us wisdom to make national decisions. Ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to draw your attention on this day to what is happening in Ukraine with the deforestation of the forests. Today, nature cries, cries out where you don't go. Came to Belgorod-Dnistrovsk Odessa district, and there's a truck, and there's no hardwood. He came to Ivano-Frankovščina, whether it's the Cherniewec region, or Zakarpatje, or Lvivsk, and there's unprocessed wood going around. Reason one, all the countries that border with us pay for buying 30 euros worth of unprocessed wood on one cubic metre, to pay for the price they still have. They are interested in preserving their forests. Why are we so stupid?Oh, my God! Why would we not ban the export of such unprocessed wood?Oh, my God! And that's what 37 business leaders came to me for, and they certified everything with their signatures, and they asked me to say it from the Supreme Council. I know our prime minister doesn't hear anything, but he's here. I'm going to the ruling faction of the Party of the Regions, and I'm going to the related factions of the opposition who are fighting for democracy today: let's ban the export of unprocessed wood. That's the kind of bill I've been introducing to the Supreme Council for a year, but they're not being considered. And, honourable national MPs, I wanted to draw your attention to what almost happened in Ukraine last night. And it almost happened because of the thoughtlessness of what they're doing and they're giving you a command to vote. And who did they want to take the benefits from? In the 11,000 750 citizens who are disabled I, II, and III groups of war in Afghanistan or a few thousand citizens who are disabled still in the Great Fatherland or World War II? Or who they wanted to take from in the 308s. Six thousand participants in combat? Or the ones who protected us from Chernobyl? Or the children of war? So, dear friends, I urge you, come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u9	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u10	Thank you. Let us undo the laws that separate us. And if the government can't keep those promises and those social guarantees, he has to go and say, "I didn't take the lift." We'll find the strength to do it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u11	Thank you. The word is Viacheslav Kirilenko, a faction of “Our Ukraine - National Self - Defense. ” Grigory Kaletnik will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u12	Viacheslav Kirilenko, Party "For Ukraine!" Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday Prime Minister Azarov gave a lecture at the University of Economics about Stolipin. And before the lecture began, he asked the students, "What do you know about the Stolipin?" Well, I told them what I saw. But he is missing the main signs of the activity of the Stolipe for the Ukrainian people that he may not know or keep quiet about. So I decided to remind both Azarov and the students and let us all know. From his decree, Stolipin, not Azarov: “The publication of the highest-approved provisional rules on societies and unions among the alien elements inhabiting Russia has seen a special movement of cultural and educational development of national-political self-awareness and education for this purpose in a number of societies aimed at bringing together the alien elements on the basis of their national interests. In view of this, - wrote Stolipe in 910 - I find the establishment of such societies unacceptable and I believe it is a duty to state that in the discussion of applications for registration there are no foreign societies, including Ukrainian societies, - wrote Stolipin - strongly rejecting the registration of their statutes. However, - Stolipin writes to the governors - you must now be thoroughly familiar with the activities of already existing alien societies and, where appropriate, to raise the question of their closure in a manner appropriate.” The signature is Peter Stolipin. This approach to the Ukrainian people was promoted by Prime Minister Azarov because he chose, not as his economic godfather, for example, Communist Volobiev, author of the theory of economic sovereignty even within the Ukrainian RSR, not other giants of Ukrainian economic thinking, but Russian self - control, supporter of self - control and Russian chauvinist Peter Stolipin. In fact, it was after this decree that Ukrainian poems, Ukrainian songs, and even works by Ukrainian composers in Ukrainian schools were banned. By the way, it was after this decree that the next circular came out that education in Ukraine was harmful and dangerous to Russia. By the way, it is this circular of the government of Azarova Tobacco, a 1908 circular on the harmfulness of educational work in Ukraine, that continues to be implemented. So I have a proposal for Ukrainian historians: for Azarov to give a special lecture in the popular form of all the real anti-Ukrainian activities of the self-governmentist Stolipin, Russian chauvinist Stolipin, and to present to Prime Minister of the Government of Sovereign Ukraine Mikoli Azarov. And if he doesn’t want to, I’ll hand him over as a national deputy with great pleasure. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u13	Kaletnik Grigory Mikhailovich, faction of the Party of the Regions. Please, your performance. Soloshenko will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u14	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, distinguished voters! I also want on the subject of tomorrow's budget, and I want to go back to the agrarian complex, its role in budgeting, too. We're really going to have a good crop of grains in 2011, and the harvesting of corn, which has already begun, to the sunflower, also adds optimism, which is going to get a lot of crops and these crops. But from the point of view of how and how this will benefit our peasants, who receive the most work and the least wages today with such good harvests, would like to turn from this rostrum to those who do their share, namely, those who buy their crops. I want to give you these figures, my dear colleagues, last year on this date and today. You are well aware of last year’s hot spores, especially with grain traders who criticized the government in every way for the introduction of quotas, since there was then, indeed, a situation, a vice, and a shortage of grain, which at that time was supposed to be in some way. To ensure that the Ukrainian people do not yet purchase wheat abroad. But given that we already have good harvest this year, we do not have quotas that have been kept on the mouths of our grain traders, for today 500 thousand tons less exported grain than on this date last year. That's the first one. The other one. This year, we have twice as much export potential. If last year we talked about 10 million as much as possible for exports, this year we predict more than 20-23 million tons. An estimate of the world’s markets shows that prices are almost at the level of last year’s food wheat and even higher on corn than last year. Why, in our view, is the work of grain traders so bad today. I want to speak to the Cabinet of Ministers. Export duties were introduced in July. I think today the Cabinet of Ministers should give a good and correct signal that these export duties will not be cancelled by the end of the marketing year, or by 1 July 2012, otherwise we will continue to brake in Ukraine and with grain exports, and the state budget will not reach at least 4 billion revenue. They'll go you know where. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u15	Anatoly Kirilovich Kinach, a faction of the Party of the Regions, has the word, instead of a colleague of Soloshenka. Next is Greeneweck instead of Grivkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u16	Ladies and gentlemen of the national council, honourable citizens! Under the conditions of increasing competition in the world markets, rising energy prices will be crucial for Ukraine's energy security for the competitiveness of the economy, for the well-being of our citizens. Therefore, more than ever, it is necessary to unite our efforts to strengthen all parameters of both energy security and the efficient development of the economy and the standards of life of our citizens. Clearly, these conclusions, both Ukrainian and international experts, the package of contracts, contracts signed in January 2009, do not meet international standards or the technical and economic conditions of balance of interests. Unprecedented fines, which are not available as an analogy in other states, are completely unbalanced parameters for the transit rate of natural gas in Ukraine, the use of underground gas deposits and the price that makes Ukraine a hostage of speculative fluctuations in oil prices in world markets. It is very important that these issues be resolved as never before outside the inter-political and personal contexts, including as a very serious factor in the negotiations, including the President of Ukraine, on the resolution of these painful issues of relations in the natural gas sector of the Ukrainian-Russian Federation. Therefore, there is a proposal from the Supreme Council to address the appropriate references to the State Duma of the Russian Federation, the European Parliament, where it is clear that our state is in position, to rephrase guarantees as a reliable strategic transitor, including by calling for a pooling of efforts to find a balance of interests between the supplier states, the transiting States and consumers in the European Union. [[Russia, Central Asia]] [[Ukraine]] Keep working on creating a transparent energy market in Europe. And clearly in the context of the consideration of the State's socio-economic development programme, the 212 budget to maximize its own energy resources, energy conservation, the modernisation of the oil sector of energy production in its territory. And this will provide an opportunity for a reliable, confident development for the future. We call for such cooperation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u17	Sergey Greenewecki, the People's Party faction has the right to speak. Jaroslav Suhi will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u18	Dear Mr. Head, honourable deputies, in his speech on the occasion of the 20th anniversary of the independence of our country, the President of Ukraine stressed, "The country should be able to defend its national interests." And to do that, she needs effective armed forces, security forces. Today, the country’s Armed Forces are only limitedly prepared to carry out the tasks laid down in the Ukrainian Constitution. This is particularly dangerous for the State that has declared non-blocking policy. The declared deep military reform is impossible without the resupply of the army, aviation, and fleet of modern weapons. The methods and techniques of fighting have changed significantly. Today, not only people are at war, but, above all, technology is being given more and more attention to high - precision weapons, drones, and information weapons. The capacity of any state is measured by the strength of its army. In doing so, we should remember that the defense complex is, as it were, the end of the chain, which begins with school and vocational and technical education. Soon, engineers, especially those working in high - tech industries, will be able to enter the Red Book as a species that is dying out. Because the most talented graduates of political engineering institutions go abroad and others work outside the profession. Due to the lack of attention on the part of the public authorities to the problems of the defence complex, the systematic underfunding of the complex has posed a real threat to the loss of even segments where our country has traditionally strong positions. They don't contribute to the effective work of a domestic military-industrial complex and a variety of restructurings that governments have done from time to time. Things could get worse if plans were made to privatize defence companies. Society and business should see defence companies as state and state enterprises, and they have, first of all, government executions to pay for their development. The government's proposals to double the 2012 budget for arms development and military technology can be welcomed. But it should also not be forgotten that the military-industrial complex was and remains an innovative sector of the economy, where, according to the country's experience of recent times, high-quality personnel of scientists, workers, engineers, technicians, designers were concentrated. In the light of the stated modernization, his role is invaluable. In recent years, however, the number of defence workers has decreased by at least 70 percent. We're losing a unique manufacturing, intellectual potential and rich experience. I think this question could be discussed at the National Security and Defence Council meeting. And it has to be not only a long-term rearming program but also an effective system.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u19	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u20	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u21	Welcome to Jaroslav Suhogo's speech from the faction of the Party of Regions. Next is Michael Kossov.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u22	Dear colleagues, every day brings us closer to the 2012 parliamentary elections. It is not surprising, then, that attention is being paid to social policy by all political forces. This is felt in everything, including rhetoric, and in the conduct in this room of many Ukrainian national deputies regardless of the faction, and this is certainly not bad. It is a matter of concern that the issue of social policy reform can be used as a different coin of political play during the pre-election period. We must finally reject both cheap populism and cynical demogogia, which, unfortunately, we have demonstrated very often and continue to demonstrate to our voters in this room. We cannot continue to be reconciled with the fact that neither the many calls of parliament nor the many changed governments have ever come close to the mainstream in the social policy agenda. In our view, we need to focus on the basic emphasis of social policy on a working population. That is, by improving state aid to low-income populations, social policy must create conditions, allowing workers to raise welfare on account of personal contribution, entrepreneurship and business activity. And we should start with a well-founded approach to the minimum wage and minimum wage. Unfortunately, today, wages in the monetary income structure of the population are steadily declining by approaching a 40 - percent critical mark instead of a 65 - percent limit. And low wages are poverty among the workers, they are low pensions, they are a decline in purchasing capacity, and as a result, the need to allocate all new and new funds from the budget instead of public-punitive investment in the basic area of the national economy. You'll think, the hired employee today gets a minimum wage of one in six, and not one in six, every other. So it's in industry. What about the budget? The average pay for education is 25 percent lower than the average wage for industry, for health care, 27 percent less, for culture and sports, by 20 percent. Therefore, the government’s intentions should certainly be welcomed so that the minimum subsistence wage for the 200th year will reach its actual size in 2013 so that the minimum wage will finally be set at the minimum wage for the working person. As we know, the State budget for 2012 provides almost 17 billion dollars in salary increases, salary increases in the budget area, and changes in the single tariff grid will be positive. Dear colleagues! I am convinced that we must support, at the legislative level, the efforts of the authorities towards a final departure from the concept of cheap labour, and the beginning of the progressive introduction of the concept of the high cost of the national labour force -- the basis of the basis for the activity of the Ukrainian society, the basis for the modernization of our economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u23	Dear colleagues! The "BUT" faction, "Fatherland", is delegated to Victor Terrence. Pinchuk will be next. Olena Bondarenko next, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u24	Victor Terrence, "Timoshenko's Yulia Block". People came to the Supreme Council yesterday, and they had slogans like, "They're bullying us." But the paradox of our country is that it is not only the living but also the dead that are being bullied in our country. And here's a specific example. At the beginning of September, an act of vandalism was carried out over the memory of the dead who died from the Holodomor, namely, that at the Memorial the victims of the Holodomor unknown vandals dug crosses with tablets of dead villages and placed them on a pile near the garbage can. This is an abuse of innocently murdered victims of Stalinism, and this provocation is very symbolic: saying, here you are in the garbage can the place of your language, your statehood in the trash, your democracy, your national memory. Similarly, when we ridiculed our family and people, what was the reaction of the U.S.S.A., what was the reaction of the militia? None at all. The U.S.A., which has worked so hard and with such zeal to identify the names of those suspected of destroying Stalin’s bosom, may have failed to identify those who may have abused the memory of Stalin’s victims. But whoever did this, this act of vandalism is no doubt to be the responsibility of the authorities, because every day of this power gives reason to say that just as today in the trash Ukrainian spirituality, education is headed by the Tobacco, and such as he, the tobacco industry and the Ukrainian scientist Azar. Our rule of law is on the trash because the opposition is in prison today. And the process over Julia Timoshenko no doubt corrects this process and directs Janukovich himself. And, well, it's completely absurd. For example, today our Constitution is in the garbage bin. People are good, I don't thicken paint. For example. Well, one example is that the head of Kiev City Administration, Popov, came up with a way to keep the rallyers out, or the Supreme Council, or Azarov, for example. [[There's a fence here, they don't have it.]] He gives the position that the administration of the Kiev City can limit the right of people to peaceful meetings. After all, there's a Constitution and there's no right for the administration of Poltava, or Kiev, to let or not allow people to hold a rally or a demonstration, there's no such right. And so let Popov forgive me, but this position can be used if there's no toilet paper in the mayor's office, let's say. And the last. Adam Mickevich said that love for Motherland begins with respect for their own cemeteries, but they see Ukraine as a garbage dump where everything can be thrown away. And Ukraine will be normal only when they're thrown out of high offices on that trash can!
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u25	Yes, Olena Bondarenko, faction of the Party of Regions, last performance.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u26	Honourable citizens, President of Ukraine Viktor Janukovic has commissioned the government and the foreign intelligence service to speed up and step up their actions in order to free Ukrainian citizens from arrest in Libya as soon as possible. Recall that on August 27, 22 Ukrainian citizens were detained in the Libyan city of Tripoli, and these citizens are civilian engineers working in the oil - gas industry of Libya. But somehow representatives of the National Transitional Council of Libya decided that these people were somehow involved in military activities on the side of Muammar Qaddafi. There's a test coming up, but no official charges have been filed yet. Our fellow countrymen are currently under house arrest, being visited daily by representatives of the Ukrainian Embassy and doctor. Ukrainians feel satisfied, provided with food and drinking water. Ukrainian diplomats do not stop associating with representatives of the left hand side, not only in Tripoli but also in Kiev and other European capitals. The faction of the Party of the Regions calls on the left side to free our citizens and allow them to return to Ukraine without hindrance. We want the detainees to gain their will as soon as possible and to return to their relatives. Ukrainian experts work in different countries, not just Libya. They need protection of their rights and interests. Our nation is obliged to provide them with a free and peaceful life, even if they are outside their homeland. That is why we support the desire of the President of Ukraine, the guarantor of the rights of Ukrainians, to protect and protect every citizen of our country from violating their rights wherever they may be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u27	Ladies and gentlemen, the speeches of the national MPs have been completed. I ask the secretariat to prepare appropriate referrals and assignments. on the proposals, warnings and queries made in the speeches of the national deputies, such as Yuri Karmazin on the prohibition of the export of unprocessed wood, Anatoly Kirilovich Kinakh on the preparation of a proper appeal to the European Parliament and to the State Duma on cooperation in the energy sphere, Sergey Grinevetsky on the need to consider the defence and defence of the country on the Council of National Security and Defence, and other proposals that have been made, I ask the Secretariat that they be materialized in relevant letters, missions and appeals. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to Wednesday's issues. September 21st. I am announcing for consideration the draft Law on the Ratification of the Protocol to the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement between Ukraine and the European Communities and their member states on the Framework Agreement between Ukraine and the European Community on the general principles of Ukraine's participation in the Association programmes. It is suggested that this issue be dealt with in a simplified manner. I have to put this motion to a vote. Please vote. [[10:37:48]] For-191 Decision taken. Rapporteur – Deputy Foreign Minister Mike Viktor Anatoliyovich, co-rapporteur – Deputy Head of the European Integration Committee Stepan Vladimirovich Kurpil. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u28	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! I have the honour to present to you the draft Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Protocol to the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement between Ukraine and the European Communities and their member states on the Framework Agreement between Ukraine and the European Community on the general principles of Ukraine's participation in Community programmes. I would like to brief you on the importance of our nation's acquisition of validity by this Protocol. The introduction of this document on the principles of participation in EU programmes is a logical step towards the integration of Ukraine into the EU, which has been implemented over the past 8 years by a number of candidate countries and potential candidates for EU membership. Among them are Turkey, Croatia, Montenegro, Macedonia, Albania, Bosnia, Herzegovina and others. The Protocol opens the way for Ukraine to start substantive work in EU programmes before the conclusion of negotiations on the Association Agreement between Ukraine and the EU. Ukraine's access to EU programmes is an important step towards sectoral integration into the European Union. The daily Association of Ukraine-EU has established the principle of Ukraine's interest in participating in EU programmes such as Youth in Action, Culture, Media, the Seventh Framework Programme of Research, and Smart Energy. The implementation of the Protocol will be an important step towards bringing our nation closer to European principles and standards. Ukraine's participation in EU programmes will facilitate the exchange of experience and make it possible to continue to use it in internal reforms aimed at implementing European standards in the country in the relevant areas. It is important to understand that in the case of participation in EU programmes, it is not only possible for closer sectoral cooperation with the EU, to study experience and to support reforms. Here we go.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u29	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u30	It is also the first experience of Ukraine's practical interaction with EU member states, raising the spirit of partnership, mutual responsibility and teamwork that is necessary in terms of the strategic objective of Ukraine's membership in the European Union. The Protocol is a framework document, but it provides a prerequisite for Ukraine to participate in the so-called open EU programmes, which are of interest on the basis of individual agreements at the notice level. In completing the report, I would like to point out that the adoption of this draft law of Ukraine will be another important step for our country in the sense of filling the practical content of cooperation with the European Union. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u31	Thank you. Please sit down. Stepan Volodymyrovich, please, for the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u32	Dear head! Dear National Deputies! Our colleagues, members of the Committee on European Integration, taking decisions on the draft law under consideration, came from the fact that the ratification of the Protocol to the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement between Ukraine and the European Communities and their member states on the Framework Agreement between Ukraine and the European Community on the General Principles for Ukraine's Participation in Cooperation Programmes is an important factor that will contribute to the creation of legal grounds for Ukraine's participation in EU programmes and will allow us to work on the preparation of memorandums of understanding for individual European Union programmes that are considered a priority for our country. The Protocol creates framework conditions for the setting up of separate memorandums of understanding on Ukraine's participation in each specific EU programme, as well as for EU funding for projects under these programmes. Ukraine is already participating in related programmes such as Youth in Action, Galileo, the Jewish Regional Development Fund, and the Seventh Framework Programme in research and technological development. The Protocol is an integral part of the current Partnership and Cooperation Agreement between Ukraine and the European Communities and their member states, which took effect on 1 March 1998. The Committees of the Supreme Council on European Integration and the Committee on Foreign Affairs drew attention to the differences in article 7 of the Protocol between the Ukrainian text and the 20 other texts of which the authenticity was established. These differences were eliminated by making June 10th.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u33	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u34	an agreement in the form of an exchange of notes between the representation of Ukraine with the EU and the General Secretariat of the EU Council. Taking into account the above, which shows the correction of errors in the Ukrainian text of article 7 of the Protocol, the Committee on European Integration considers it appropriate to recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine approve the project as a whole. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u35	Dear colleagues, please sign up for this discussion. Vladimir Moisik, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u36	Vladimir Moses, Party "For Ukraine!".. Please pass the word to Knyazevitch Ruslan.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u37	Ruslan Knazevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u38	Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u39	What faction do you have, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense," right?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u40	Thank you, Volodymyr Romanovich, for the hunt. The thing is, as far as I'm concerned, it's a question that doesn't even need any further discussion, because I think it's going to have an absolute consensus in the session room. The point is that in order to have the prospect of finally opening the door to the signing of the Free Trade Zone, the ratification of the Protocol is one of the necessary and universally binding steps. If you see it, it was signed on November 22nd, and the details were in June of this year. There's actually not even a year yet, and we've already started to ratify it, which is one of the record for parliament, because we know that ratification documents sometimes wait a few years. The point is that we are actually, really already in the process of cooperating on separate sectoral programmes and should continue to do so. It is likely that the one who read this agreement will find that the only warning that may arise is about the need for financial contributions from Ukraine to specific programs. But these contributions are far less than the benefits of these programs. Because if, as a result of us contributing and joining the programme, we are going to ask for assistance in relation to the implementation of this programme, all the participants in this programme from the EU should go to the meeting and provide such assistance in accordance with the agreement. I think it's going to go a long way beyond what Ukraine will pay as a cost in accordance with the protocol. Moreover, by ratifying this protocol, we do not immediately anticipate the need for such a type of financial contribution. For each specific case of sectoral cooperation with the European Communities, separate memoranda should be adopted in accordance with the document, which will determine exactly the proportion of the contribution, the duration of the contribution, and so on. That is why this issue is not relevant and nothing prevents us from ratifying at least this protocol in order to clear up another additional setback on the path of integration into the economic zone of the European Union. As for me, there should be no warnings, and on behalf of my own faction, I will say that we absolutely support its acceptance as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u41	Vladimir Caplienko, MP for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u42	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. The MP for Future Reform supports the bill on ratification of the Protocol on the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement between Ukraine and the European Communities. The only thing we discussed at the meeting of the group was three questions that my colleague Knazevitch had also pointed to today. The first is about a mandatory financial contribution, but in certain procedures through the signing of memorandums of understanding between the competent authorities of Ukraine and the Commission of the European Communities. So I don't think any effort in this direction will be felt by Ukraine. What are the positive effects of the ratification of this Protocol? I support the colleague's thesis on this bill that before the completion of Ukraine's integration into the European Community, we are in principle approaching this process and, in such good faith, we are moving towards Europe, to democratic foundations, to cooperate with the countries within the European Community. What can this give us, apart from transparency, apart from European standards, besides studying experience and joint activities between EU member states? Of course, this is a team partnership, and this is the main opportunity to join Ukraine in financing those or other projects that belong to the energy sector, green projects and projects that aim at building a social society in Ukraine. The MP's "Reforms for the Future" will support this ratification by 20 votes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u43	Yuri Litwin passes the law to Oleg Zarubinski, faction of the People's Party, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u44	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, there is no doubt that most of the hall will support this bill. But I would like to draw your attention to some points that obviously need to be taken into account. When it comes from the subject of the legislative initiative, including ratification procedures, documents, it is obvious that the explanatory note should adequately write whether there is an impact on the State budget or not. It says "financial-economic" here in black, paragraph four, that the creation of the protocol does not directly require financial expenditure from the State budget of Ukraine. Obviously, it is necessary to write as is the case, since the conclusion, including the budget committee, states that the committee has decided as a result that the bill will have a direct impact on the budgetary indicators. Clearly, then, there is no need to be afraid to note what it is and not to be misled by national MPs. Another matter, as colleagues said, is convenient for Ukraine and this is covered by the financial possibilities that exist. But to say and to write that it doesn't affect the state budget, it's obviously not right. And what's positive is that, besides what the colleagues were celebrating, everyone said that this allowed Ukraine to participate in the European Union programmes. But I want to point out that not only in programs, but also in agencies as structural units today. In fact, this gives Ukraine the opportunity to participate in the structural units of the European Union and thus join the European Community de facto, if not de jure, de facto, which will certainly contribute to the legalization of our participation as well.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u45	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u46	our participation as a member of the Treaty with the European Union. Clearly, then, a positive decision can be made. But once again, I want to say that the documents that are being submitted should be fully adequate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u47	Thank you. Ivan Popescu, one minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u48	Sand, faction of the Party of the Regions. Since it's only one minute, I'm going to be as concise as possible. The point is that Ukraine signed the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement between Ukraine and the European Community and the States ratified by the Supreme Council of Ukraine back in 1994. But there is an additional protocol that allows us to solve many of the problems that relate to the direct participation of the individual ministries and departments of Ukraine that work with the relevant bodies of the European Community Commissions. If we solve this question, it'll simplify the decision-making process. As a result, the Party of Regions will vote in favour. And also, given that this will also contribute to the conclusion of the Association Agreement with the European Union, because these are mechanisms for implementing these points. Thank you for your attention. And the Party of Regions will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u49	Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. I would like to remind you that the committee supports the draft Protocol Ratification Act. The main scientific and expert office believes that the protocol can be ratified. The proposal to approve the Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Protocol to the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement between Ukraine and the European Communities and their member states on the Framework Agreement between Ukraine and the European Community on the general principles of Ukraine's participation in the Association programmes is put to the vote. Please vote. [[10:53:22]] For 324 Decision taken. Honourable National MPs, two factions, the "BOUT" faction, the "Fatherland" and the "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense" faction require a recess to hold consultations on issues of order and to make a statement. At the same time, in the process of negotiations, they agreed to make a statement immediately. Who will make the statement? Roman Zabzaluk? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u50	Janukovic continues his brutal antisocial attack instead of improving the lives of Ukrainians today. It has not yet been dried up by its signature under the anticonstitutional law on the rise of retirement age and internship, but by the approach of another antinational law. The ruling parliamentary majority, at the direction of the President, is planning to adopt a decision that deprives deserving benefits of dozens of categories of people: war participants, children of war, Chernobyl, Afghans, victims of Nazi persecution, disabled persons, medical personnel, education, miners. All of this is part of the political course built in Ukraine by the anti-national regime, the essence of which the rich are to become richer and the poor are even poorer. It is worth reminding us that by withdrawing the last penny from the disadvantaged, the regime steals billions from the state budget, buys gold toilets, builds helipads, and luxurious palaces. Yesterday, despite the regime’s attempts to drive protestors against the walls of the Supreme Council, rallying Afghans and Chernobyls forced the overwhelming majority to hear the voice of the people. Another demonstration was that the Ukrainian people were afraid of the repressions that had been committed in Ukraine and did not kneel. The Fatherland Party and its faction in the Supreme Council are in solidarity with those who have shown indifference and disagreement with the destructive policy of power that destroys the socio-economic rights of citizens. Parenthood, together with the Committee on the Resistance of Dictatura, supports and initiates further peaceful protests aimed at protecting the constitutional rights of citizens and preventing the adoption by this authority of anti-national decisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u51	There's 20 minutes left. Who will act? Grimmczak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u52	Today the trial of Yuri Lucenko has resumed. Recent events show that we are witnesses when we move from torture to the public execution of one of the leaders of the opposition. For three months, the last three months, Yuri Lucenka has not been provided with medical care, nor has he been subjected to torture under an article of the European Convention on Human Rights. The long correspondence between the pension system, the court, and the Ministry of Health did not lead to anything. Medical care is no longer available. Yesterday, the consul was never able to make any decisions. Despite the significant deterioration of Yuri Lucenka’s health, medical care is not available today in its entirety, and medical care is not available in general. There is no real threat to Yuri Lucenka’s health, no health, and there is a real threat to his life today. And so, understanding the political nature of what's going on in our country, we demand immediate release from the custody of Yuri Lucenk and the cessation of political repression against all other representatives of the opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u53	Yes, dear fellows, we continue our consideration of matters. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2011 is being announced for consideration. [[on strengthening State support for agriculture in 2011]] I'm voting on your motion to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Okay, now after this, we're going to look at it, so there's not just any argument that I'm taking time off, I'm not going to let you consider all the questions. [[B in m in s a l in]] Yuri Bogdanovich, please. [[10:58:04]] For-200 Decision taken. You can't fit like a mother-in-law. Please, calm down. You understand perfectly when 20 questions are planned and you want to look at them all in the south. What can you do?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u54	It's a question that you've been asked today, on Wednesday, by the opposition, and you've been talking about it. And once again, my dear colleagues, remember how you eliminated the benefits to the people of 105 billion.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u55	Take the vote for the 2008 law. Please come in.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u56	Take the vote. Take the vote objectively. Please come in.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u57	This is objective. Please come in.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u58	Basil Krawczuk, Faction "BUT" – "Fathership", Hmelnickin. A draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for 2011 proposes to channel 4 billion 926 million 416 thousand dollars to finance a number of budget programmes under the main budget manager – the Ministry of Agriculture and Food of Ukraine, in particular: State support for agricultural cooperatives – 100 million dollars, budgetary and creative subsidies and State support for agricultural production – 200 million dollars, financial support for agribusiness enterprises through the cost of loans – 2 billion 331 million dollars, partial compensation for the value of complex agricultural techniques – 160 million dollars, financial support for agro-industrial enterprises through the cost of loans – 2 billion 331 million dollars, partial compensation for the cost of complex agricultural techniques – 160 million dollars. [[on strengthening State support for agriculture in 2011]] The source of additional budget expenditure is proposed to determine the value added tax from goods, jobs, and services produced in Ukraine. Over the past two years, the current authorities have completely renounced the countryside and agricultural production. Compared to 2008, funding from the State Development Budget of the Ministry of Agrarian Policy decreased 8 times. For the first time in many years, the state support of farms has been completely compressed. During the past two years, none of the agricultural areas has been financed. Is it not a preparation for the adoption and entry into force of the Law on the Market of the Earth so that the oligarchs can gather the land into the peasants at no cost? To prevent the raid by the oligarchs of agricultural enterprises, please support our peasants, stop the increase in food prices.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u59	Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u60	Stop rising food prices, ensure food security in the country. This will bring much greater benefits to the state than financing hundreds of millions of the Ministry of Interior, the Ukrainian Security Service, or the Park of Rest in Donetsk. Please support the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u61	Yes, thank you. From the Committee, the head of the Committee on Budgets, Valeriy Alexiyovich Baranov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u62	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The Committee on Budget Issues considered the draft bill at its meeting on September 7, this year. The bill proposes to increase the expenditure of the Ministry of Agrarian Policy and Food by a total State budget fund of 4,9*** billion dollars, or nearly twice as much as the approved amount, to support agro-industrial enterprises. At the same time, it is intended to increase the revenue of the state budget for the same amount of income from the value added tax on goods produced in Ukraine. In doing so, the authors of the bill in violation of the requirements of article 27 of the Budget Code and part of article 91 of the Supreme Council Rules have not provided a financial and economic justification for the increase in the expenditure of the State budget. It is worth noting that the bill contains errors and disagreements, and needs to clarify the budgetary indicators according to part of the current drafting of the State Budget Act for this year, taking into account the changes made by the laws to it. The adoption of the bill as proposed will lead to a balanced state budget, which violates the constitutional principles of budgeting. The Chief Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council notes that in order to make an informed decision about the project, we need to get an appropriate conclusion from the government. The Ministry of Finance does not support the adoption of the bill and notes the lack of real financial resources to implement it. The Committee on Rules, MPs and Security of the Supreme Council notes that the bill does not correspond to the provisions of the Supreme Council Rules in the drafting of the bill. In view of the above, the Committee on Budget Questions decided to recommend to the Supreme Council Bill No. 8653 to reject.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u63	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Please sign up for the discussion. Catherine Samuel, the Communist faction. Next is Vasil Kravchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u64	The faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine will support the bill. And I want to say about the previous speaker. One day we don't see when the bills that are being tabled do not comply with the basic law of our country, the Constitution of Ukraine, but, contrary to the Constitution, we support these laws. And now we're saying that this bill doesn't correspond to a whole series of laws of our state. I believe the questions raised today. which are raised in this bill are very relevant. This is also support for farming and construction. I'm just about the day before the car builder's day. At the Herson factory, it's now practically ready for a series of Scythian combines, which can collect both early grains and rice crops grown in Ukraine. But, unfortunately, there is no such thing as a state. And, I see, there's practically no money available in the Ukrainian State Budget project -- although sitting and crying. Either we keep sending money to other countries and buying technology, or finally let's think about our problems. And one more question. We really need to take a serious look at trends and what is happening to the earth right now. Young people, very doubtful, are now running in our villages and buying pies from our people, buying money today. I would like the State to have the Ukrainian Security Service, the Prosecutor's Office, to pay attention to this, because by the time we get to the land market, the land will be gone, it will be bought now. We need to support this bill, it's lobbying for our nation's agrarian complex.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u65	Basil Krawczuk is transferring the right to speak to John Kirilenko, the faction of "BUT is "The Fatherland".
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u66	Your Honor, your colleagues! I thank the previous speaker for supporting the bill, for the weighty position. I want to add the following to the statement. I have before me the 2012 government activity programme, as well as the 2013-2014 prolongation. It's written about the agro-industry complex: "Today, an agro-industry complex provides the needs of the internal market for most food products and holds leading positions in the external markets for the export of sunflower oil and grain crops. However, the country's agricultural sector, at the level of development, is moving significantly towards the developed countries of the world and the EU, which is confirmed by the low economic efficiency of agricultural production. In the APC, the following tasks are needed to ensure the development of basic areas: to create conditions for the development of agricultural areas and basic agricultural sectors through the implementation of the actions of the National Targeted Rural Development Programme until 2015; to increase the production of competitive animal production through the promotion of construction and reconstruction of animal farms and complexes; to increase the production of combustibles by partially compensating the cost of such facilities; to pay budgetary subsidies for the implementation of milk; to reduce credit; to compensate for the acquisition of dairy products; to provide for the creation of an agricultural fund of the State Integration Fund; to implement selective measures in animal production; to preserve the conservation, rational use of tribal resources; and to ensure the operation of a single system of selection in the field of civil engineering; and to ensure the operation of the single system of civil society; and to ensure the development of civil engineering and civil society. Dear colleagues, we are looking at the 2012 draft budget -- no copies are available at such strategic prices. The only sector that provides a very positive balance of currency coming into the country, and this is extremely important under crisis conditions, this sector is essentially without state support. And another thing is, they say there's no sources of funding, there's no colleagues, and there's a set of taxes for exporting grain crops, and there's a few billion at the expense of farmers gathered into the budget, and that's on account of their profitability, that's on account of their earnings.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u67	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u68	It was promised that when this law was passed, it would increase. on the introduction of an export duty, it was promised that this money would go towards the development of an agro-industrial complex. So where's the logic? Dear colleagues, the strategic field of priority is written down, so that the word does not depart from the work. We will not support our manufacturer. Unfortunately, we will support another. The Greek experience has something to teach us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u69	There, by the way, is Ivan Grigorovich, a respected colleague, a draft law that, while there is this duty, may it be turned to the benefit of agriculture and these costs to channel technical restocking of agriculture? For any benefit, if any, let us consider this bill and make a decision. Vladimir Karpuk refers to Anatoly Matvienko, the faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u70	Anatoly Matvienko, Ukrainian Republican Party Sobor, Our Ukraine is National Self-Defense. Vladimir Mikhailovich, first of all, I would like to address you because there are bills that have more than one committee involved. There are bills that have something to do with a group of committees. In this case, the agrarian committee should also consider this bill and should have its position, not just the budget committee. So obviously, I'd like this to be taken into account. Now it's about this bill. I would like to thank Mr. Krawczuk for raising an extremely pressing problem. Clearly, this bill has a whole group of flaws that the head of the budget committee has been paying attention to. But, dear friends, think about it, today the village can save only an efficient economy and economic operators. It's pay and income. If we don't, we won't have villages like we didn't save him because of any other programs. The world today, Europe, where we want it, is just a hectare of grill, where today there is 350 minimum euros for everyone who runs agricultural production. Mr. Krawchuk offers 60 bucks. Think about it, I'm not talking about subsidies that are given to other areas, to animals and other types of agricultural production. We can't even do that. Mr. Krawchuk is putting the right problem, and once again, I support what was said to me, that we may be able to make up for the cost that Mr. Krawchuk is offering. So it seems to me that this bill needs, not a rejection today, but an acceptance in the first reading, Vladimir Mikhailovich, to the maximum. If we can't do that, I suggest that we re-read it and pass it on to the Agrarian Policy Committee, and that's how we worked on it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u71	Okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u72	The problem was how to get the money for the badly needed items proposed in this bill to support the agricultural producer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u73	Please, Yuri Klukkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u74	Vladimir Mikhailovich, I want to say thank you for the right to a replica. But what I'm saying is that your indignation at my address was completely unproductive. Our Supreme Council is currently working on a practice that was typical of the Communist Brigades of Soviet times. That's what it's called. Indeed, the rules provide for the possibility of a simplified procedure. As an exception. Please take a look at the stenographer at least for this session. Was there any question that was considered in full procedure? And please tell me what else to call this way of doing the Supreme Council, which you run, when the weak laws against which the black people, Afghans and other categories of people are protesting and we have to vote in three months here, in the hall, because they've done stupid things with their own storm. And the way you work depends on you. So I would very much ask, if there's a short-term proposal under the stenogram, then let's put it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u75	Yes, please let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u76	Or say it's your offer. And then you take responsibility for this storming.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u77	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I apologize to Yuri Bogdanovich Klukkowski for not being in the hall, and he was voted in favour of taking off, stopping, delaying the benefits of 105 billion dollars in June 2008. I'm sorry I didn't check up on you. And now, relatively, respectable colleagues, reduced procedures. A reduced procedure is prohibited in accordance with the Rules when there is more. the corresponding number of articles before this is provided. Now we're looking at, usually, changes. At the same time, during the Conciliation Council meeting, when I call on distinguished national MPs not to make too many suggestions because they cannot be considered. I am encouraged to consider all of them and to consider the simplified procedure. And that's why, honourable colleagues and honourable colleagues, here's the question: either we're just going to talk about the same problem for 45 minutes, or we're going to look at others. Please, come on, if there's no suggestions from the hall for a reduced procedure, I don't care. But then don't offer what's not there, that's all. I want to say again, let's be mutually tolerant, because I've heard these conversations before, when there was one pervasive majority, talking about state interests, others criticizing and talking about people's interests, now they've changed. And let's take responsibility for all the benefits that we're putting on foot water for the entire Supreme Council. The Supreme Council passed laws, and then the benefits were lifted. And I showed you that in 2008, the law of 2008 cancelled 102 positions at 105 billion and told you who voted. Then the statement was not that there was no vote or session room, but someone else pressed the button. Now we're showing the serviceability.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u78	That's what everybody does, so let's talk about everyone. Let everyone talk about themselves. I ask you again, let everyone talk about themselves. Are you happy that I apologized to you for that? All of it. Dear colleagues, the committee is proposing to reject the bill. The main scientific and expert office makes a point to the bill. These remarks are given to you. As for Anatoly Matvienko's observation, I would like to remind you that the Committee on Budget Affairs was the first to consider this issue, the second to be the Committee on Agricultural Policy. So I will advise you as a member of the committee: let the committee discuss these issues. Dear colleagues, in accordance with the Rules, I am also voting on the proposal to adopt a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for 2011. [[on strengthening State support for agriculture in 2011]] [[Registration number 8653]] Please vote. [[11:17:11]] For 111 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. The factions, please. Region Party 6, "BUT" – "Batakushina" – 57, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 20, communists – 25, "Reforms for the Future" – 0, National Party – 0, non-factional – 3. Second sentence: for rereading the first reading. I'm voting on this proposal. Please identify yourself. [[11:17:53]] For the 120th. The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. The factions, please. Region Party 3, "BUT – Fatherland" – 53, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 20, Communists – 25, "Reforms for the Future" – 13, People's Party – 1, non-fractional – 5. Dear colleagues, the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on strengthening responsibility for violations of political party legislation is being announced. [[Registration number 5208]] The rapporteur is National Deputy Shemczuk Viktor Viktorovich. He asked the Supreme Council to consider the matter in his absence because he was on his way. Now, one minute. Correspondent is the head of the committee's subcommittee on law enforcement, Moisik Volodymir Romanovich. Vladimir Romanovich, how do you propose to deal with the issue?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u79	Vladimir Moses, Party "For Ukraine!".. The Committee's conclusion is negative.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u80	No, short or full?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u81	It's short. Do you want it full?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u82	What's that? Please, who's taking the word?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u83	There's no author, there's nothing going on, there's no author.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u84	Please, Mikhail Vasilovich, your proposal, you said. For the transcript, Mikhailo Vasilovich Chechetov suggests that we consider the issue of a reduced procedure. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u85	Respectable colleagues are indeed serious documents. Tomorrow we will consider the Social and Economic Development Programme for the following year, a draft budget, where we will discuss and listen in detail to the views of committees, factions and individual deputies. This is the most serious, I would say, global documents that will lay at the heart of the country's vitality. And there are light questions, where it's a waste of time -- two hours to set up a speech room. It is therefore appropriate in this situation to save time and parliamentary money that we receive from the budget from taxpayers. I propose to consider this bill on short notice.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u86	I'm voting on a motion to review the bill for a reduced procedure. [[Registration number 5208]] [[11:20:35]] For 208 Decision taken. Vladimir Romanovich Moisik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u87	Dear Sir, your head! Dear fellow national MPs! The author of the Viktor Viktorovich Shemchuk bill introduced a bill to supplement the Criminal Code with article 170. and the addition of the Code on Administrative Offences, article 212, bearing the badge 21. That's what this is about. The author suggests that criminal responsibility should be established for violating the financing of the political party. And in article 212, marked 21 of the Code, I propose: administrative responsibility for: not publishing, not publishing at the right time, or in the financial and financial state of the political party. The Legislative Security and Law Enforcement Committee reviewed the bill and concluded that it was to be further developed. With regard to the introduction of criminal responsibility for violating the order of financing of the political party, this responsibility is now contained in article 159 of the Criminal Code 1 of Ukraine. With regard to the implementation of administrative responsibility, unfortunately, the author did not specify the authority or the official authority to draw up the protocol and to consider such protocols. The bill came mainly with negative conclusions: from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Justice, the Attorney General's Office and the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. So the committee's proposal to send a bill to the author for further work. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u88	Yes, thank you, too. Have a seat, please. Please sign up for the performance. Names of the national MPs, please. Ruslan Knazevich, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u89	Please pass the word to Keykovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u90	Yuri Klukkowski, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u91	Thank you. Yuri Klukkowski. Indeed, the bill cannot be adopted. However, I do know that the author needs to be thanked for raising an extremely important problem, the problem of financing political parties. And in this regard, I would like to remind you that we have talked a lot today about unconstitutional decisions to stop a whole series of laws. The same decision put an end to the 1 - year section of the Political Parties Act, which provided for the budgetary financing of political parties. This rule was annulled by the Constitutional Court, in accordance with the Constitutional Court's position, the amendment declared unconstitutional, renews the previous law. Thus, the Law on Political Parties, which provides for State funding for political parties, should now be in force. However, neither the previous government nor this government are going to do so. This leads political parties to a situation where they are forced to seek money not always from legal sources and thus stimulate political corruption. And political corruption guarantees that there is no fight against corruption in society at all. Therefore, the question of the restoration of State funding for political parties is a matter of combating corruption. And only after the legal financing of political parties can we ask about the responsibility of political parties for violating this legislation. Of course, this responsibility cannot be criminal and cannot be administrative, since in all these cases it refers to the responsibility of a collective subject rather than of a natural person, as provided for by criminal law or administrative responsibility. Therefore, the bill needs to be rejected. However, I am once again raising this problem.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u92	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u93	I am once again raising the issue before the Supreme Council, and I want the Supreme Council to address the government on the validity of the section of the Political Parties Act, which provides for budgetary financing for the parties.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u94	Yuri Litwin, faction of the People's Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u95	I'd like to give it to Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u96	Oleg Zarubinski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u97	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Dear colleagues, if you look at the rationale for the need for adoption of an act, the last position in chapter I of this argument is that the introduction of a clear regulation on the publication of the political party of its financial and property reporting will allow the State to control the sources of financing of the political party. That in the context of really political corruption is a serious enough position. But it's a case where the idea is nice and fair, but it's suggested, well, it's a fairly questionable mechanism to implement this idea. Well, in particular, see, the bill does not in fact define the mechanism for implementing administrative responsibility for the commission of this offence. That is, there is no authority or authority that will have the right to draw up a protocol on the relevant administrative offence. And the question is, who's going to do this? And will there be any political or other motivation here? Well, another question that I think needs to be taken into account in other bills, which include increasing fines, increasing penalties. In this case, practice is introduced, and the subject of the legislative initiative is proposed to impose a more severe penalty for administrative misconduct compared with responsibility for a criminal offence. Well, that's just unacceptable. There are administrative violations, there are criminal offences. And there must be a certain hierarchy of logic and understanding in the system of punishment. Therefore, the MP needs to work on this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u98	Andrew Kožemiakin, "BUT" faction, "The Fatherland." Olga Bodnar, please. Catherine Samuel will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u99	Olga Bodnar, Timoshenko Yulia Block, Fatherland Party. Dear colleagues, let's conceptually define what we need today. The whole room is talking about us getting ready to decriminalize our legislation. Then, in this context, the bill does not correspond to our conceptual position on decriminalization. I fully agree with my colleague Klukkowski, who says, "At first, we need to prevent this mechanism of corruption, which unfortunately exists today, and then we need to talk about some responsibility or increased responsibility." Today, there is a criminal code and responsibility for misreporting by, and misfinancing by political parties, but as a member of the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government, I am even more concerned about another issue. Let's look at the interests of political parties, as well as the citizens that these political parties represent. If we want these political parties to really work and there was no way in which we could find any important influences that are questionablely legitimate, I think we should leave the legislation at the level that there is today, and predict those important, precautionary importance for violations by political parties, and at that point stop and for now put a dot. I think the bill, aside from having negative flaws and negative conclusions from a lot of profiling committees, I think it is. and not relevant, considering the ambassador who gives power in the fight against the opposition. I don't think this bill can be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u100	Catherine Semenovna Samoylik, Company faction, please. Then there's Bully.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u101	Thank you. I think it wasn't by chance that the author of the bill was missing, as a lawyer he understands very well that there is no legal basis for adopting the bill. And I agree with the idea that if political parties were financed by the state, then a similar bill would have to be adopted. Who can now demand such reports, publish them? For example, members of the Communist Party of Ukraine during their entire stay in the Supreme Council of Ukraine voluntarily list a large part of their earnings for the needs of our party. What does the Ministry of Justice, or other ministries, have to do with how the party uses this money? But at the same time, after the Orange Revolution, we suggested that we check the funding of foreign intelligence and the funds of the participants themselves, the political parties that took part in the coup d'état that took part in the so-called Orange Revolution. Then no one supported us, then it wasn't abuse, but it was a question of the sovereignty of our state. And all the problems we're talking about today are thanks to international intervention at the time of foreign funds, intelligence, various intelligence. And that's why today you scream, don't scream, but you've laid all the groundwork to destroy our state. We're voting against it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u102	Bully, then Michael Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u103	Thank you. Parliamentary Group Reforms for the Future, People's Authority. Well, really, in our country, unfortunately, there are semi-civilized relations between the state and the parties, and considering this very difficult today to vote for this bill, and today we understand that the drafter of the bill proposes to establish criminal responsibility for violating the legal order for financing the activities of political parties, but in fact, funding by the political party state does not take place. What's there to control? The position of part two of article 170, which is proposed to supplement the Criminal Code, is also unacceptable in view of the fact that the expenditure of the political party, the management of other property owned by the organization, is the object of the internal activity of the party. And we understand that in our state's realities, the adoption of this law is actually a threat to the very great pressure of opposition. That's why we know today that this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u104	Mikhailo Chechetov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u105	Dear Vladimir Mihajlović, distinguished colleagues, the factions of the majority demonstrate a gesture of goodwill. Nowhere in the Rules is there, but we allow a minority to invite any minister to the report on Friday to ask questions, to clarify a position on a matter, we allow you on Wednesday to demonstrate a gesture of goodwill, to form your agenda so that you can speak in order to ask questions, to clarify your position. We're not talking about you not coming to the session room anymore, and there are 5-10 people there, well, God is with him, but at least you've passed the bill the ones you're going to vote for. Well, you can't either. We give you one day not prescribed in the Rules to form an agenda, you do not have enough to come into the room, so you are also putting a bill on the agenda that you do not want to vote for. Well, you can't either. Either let's work or not. Yesterday we worked constructively with you. When the Government or the majority enters, 300 votes in the Chamber. And when you do not have a vote, nor do you have a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u106	Ladies and gentlemen, the matter has been discussed. The committee proposes that the draft law be returned to the subject of the right of legislative initiative for further development. The main scientific and expert office also believes that the document needs to be properly worked out. In accordance with the Rules, the proposal to adopt a draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts to increase liability for violations of political party legislation is the first to vote. [[Registration number 5208]] Please determine by vote. [[11:35:17]] For -8 The decision is not taken. I am voting on the proposal to return the bill to the subject of the right of legislative initiative for further work. Please be sure. [[11:35:41]] For the four of us. The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. Honourable National Deputies, I am announcing for consideration the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation against bribery. [[Registration number 8023]] Rapporteur – National Deputy of Ukraine Anatoly Stepanovich Gricenko, co-rapporteur – First Deputy Head of the Committee on Law Enforcement Protection of Vladimir Mikolaiovich Olijnik. Please, Chechtov microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u107	Dear colleagues, well, we have seen the quality of the bills that have been discussed before, and the vote, so we propose to have a brief session here so as not to delay the time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u108	A motion to consider the issue of a reduced procedure shall be put to the vote. [[Registration number 8023]] [[11:36:46]] For-195 Decision taken. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u109	Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! I would like to welcome you to the feast, with Christmas to the Holy Virgin, and perhaps to recall some of God's commandments, at least, "Don't lie." As soon as most of the airmen hit the stand, he criticized the law that was passed by the majority, Shemchuk yours, has nothing to do with the opposition. So at least read the papers on your desk. That's the first one. The other one. A bill that I'm already introducing for the third time. I want to remind you, he voted, he received over 300 votes in parliament in 2009. The Party of Regions and other factions voted. Sadly, he was promised. The point is simple. These "Christmas" of the category "investigators, prosecutors, judges" who take bribes, carry out investigations, do not defend legitimate interests, do sentences, which I repeat are used as bribes for planting an innocent, and exempt from liability, for which they are presumed to be a severe criminal responsibility -- life imprisonment with the confiscation of property without the right to amnesty. I think that's fair. Three of them would have been planted, the rest would have been hidden or removed from these organs and given room for other people. I'm asking you to back me up. And I know most people got a "no vote." [[I'd like to make a mistake.]] Mr. Chechatov! I'm making a constructive offer. Get away from the microphone, maybe it's her. You're not gonna pull it off the microphone. Perhaps it will move you to think. If I'm not ready to put this law into effect right now, I'm making a constructive proposal to put it into effect on January 1, 2015. At least then we'll make arrangements with the bribes in the courts, in the prosecution, in the investigator's office. Maybe so. I'm willing to bring it to another reading. I'd like to support this bill, which is very important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u110	Dear colleagues! A report from the committee will be made by Oliynik Vladimir Mikolaiovich, the first deputy head of the Committee on Law Enforcement.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u111	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! A committee on law enforcement law enforcement was discussed by the Ukrainian National MP Griesenk in a draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on anti-fraud. The purpose of the bill is to substantially increase the responsibility for corruption, including bribery. The adoption of the law, according to the author, will contribute to the improvement of the criminogenic, moral and socio-economic state of society, so the author proposes the following novels. According to a valid article in article 368 of the Criminal Code, a particularly large - scale bribe is considered to exceed an untaxed minimum of citizens’ income by 500 or more. The bill proposes that this limit be reduced to 300 non-taxable minimum citizens’ income. The other one. In article 368 of the Criminal Code, the list of officials who hold a responsible or particularly responsible position shall be completed by "the officials of the local self-government of the relevant categories". In addition, judges, prosecutors, and investigators in the number of persons in charge of the position of responsibility have been transferred to the ranks of those who hold a particularly responsible position, which reinforces their responsibility for bribery. There is also an increase in the age of deprivation of liberty for bribery on a particularly large scale, carried out by a ministerial servant in a particularly responsible position, and for bribery associated with other crimes. In the Amnesty Act in Ukraine, a list of persons who are not allowed to apply amnesty is supplemented by "convicted for receiving bribes of a particularly large size or by a person who is in a particularly responsible position". The committee received many conclusions, mostly negative ones, from public authorities and institutions, in particular its reasoned observations and proposals, from experts from the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of the Interior, the PNB, the SBU and relevant leading legal higher scientific institutions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u112	Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u113	The principle of violation of both the Constitution and the Criminal Procedure Code is allowed when the impunity of punishment is established. The main scientific and expert office considers it appropriate to re-establish the subject of the right of legislative initiative for further development, while the committee has decided to take it as a basis in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u114	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up for your comments on this matter. Names of the national MPs, please. Sergey Pavlovenko, faction of the National Party. It'll be next. He's giving up the word. Pierre, the "BOUT" faction is "The Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u115	Let him pass it on to me.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u116	Vladimir Yavorowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u117	Dear voters, first of all, I address you as our electorate. Two episodes first. First. I'm in charge of the election in Kirovgrad. A woman came to me, a retired woman, and she was misaccounted for, well, basic, the most elemental question that can be solved by letter and so forth. Sit down, talk to her, she's gone. I'm unwinding, so the papers that were lying on my desk, I'm looking, and she left me ten bucks of bribes for taking it. This is what the MP accepted. Imagine how he's sitting in this man's psyche. [[B in m in s a l in]] As she sits in this man's psyche, she can't go anywhere without a bribe. Well, I caught her and I gave her up, don't worry, it's okay. I gave her that money back. Another example. I've been preparing my time around the early 1990s for a very famous businessman, the Ukrainian Bogdan Misk. "Take,--I say--your millions and go to Ukraine, start business, bare field, market, go." He came, he worked here for about a year, and he calls me a year later and says, "I'm going to America, if I may, let's meet, have dinner." Well, I think he's going there for a little something. Yours. When he tells me, he says, "I take the money and go back." Why? He says, "I've never given anyone bribes in my entire life, and here, wherever you don't go, there's a hand stretched out everywhere, either under the table or right on the table." This is a colossal problem today, which our colleague has literally brought here several times to see. They're not going to look at it today, Mr. Grizzenko, because it's going to hit them. BUILD will vote in favour of this law. We are grateful that you have touched on a painful subject. When criminal cases are discovered one by one today, without any basis and the example of Julia Timoshenko, where everything was completely scattered, and the same example of Yuri Lucenka, where everything was scattered. Those people who seem to have suffered come and say, "I didn't know I was a victim." Why didn't I know? You wrote a statement there, didn't you? How did I write it? You dictated it to me, and I wrote it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u118	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u119	Because, indeed, this bill needs to be voted in, and because bribes need to be judged by the harshest. Thank you, Mr. Gritsenko. But.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u120	Thank you. Mikhailo Chechetov, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u121	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! Is there a criticism here that we don't know who the drafters are? Why? We know. And the main authorship, his principal residence, under which flags a person has been sent to Parliament. He was caught under the butov-orange flags in Parliament – this is the main address. And the fact that you've shown your insolence and you've got it all figured out, and you've got this blanket of yours that's been sewn with rotten threads for the People's Self-Defense-Our Ukraine election, and you're not gonna know where. But these are your problems. Well, poor Hanna Nikolayevna doesn't know who's running the party anymore. I don't know who's running this party or who this guy is. I don't know who she was really talking about. So at least publish who's in what party, who's in what faction, who's floating where. Well, not for us, not for us, for the electorate to at least identify you as a representative of the political force, because we are going to the elections. And you want to play dark with the voters again. You can't do that. Share who leads the party, who swims where or who swims on which shore, or who moves off which shore. People need to know the heroes. You're trying to fool the people again. With regard to the bill, I believe that it must not be supported, but rather uphold the President's principled position in the fight against corruption. Here is the President of rights: corruption has no party colour, no irresistible punishment regardless of position, and corruption has no role, either its own or another's. And in this situation, it is the President who is absolutely right, and those initiatives that they are initiating, that really are hurting, a blow to corruption, because the issue is hard, indeed: either corruption or it will be a State. I think the State will, and we will destroy corruption together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u122	Gennady Bully. Then Anatoly Grizzenko. One minute at a time. Gennady Zdirko, group of Reforms for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u123	Gennady Zdirko, the Reform Group for the Future, the People's Power Party. The project proposes to significantly increase the liability for large-scale bribes and, in particular, large-scale bribes by establishing in part three of article 368 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code a basic penalty of 10 to 15 years of imprisonment. It's a serious bill that really allows us today to take steps to combat corruption. The very main problem of our nation today, and this is understood by all, is that corruption is eating up our nation, and corruption has become a threat to Ukraine’s national security. I have dozens of references to how the courts operate today by law enforcement agencies, how state authorities operate. So our group understands that this fight is to be fought. He's going to vote in favour of these bills. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u124	Anatoly Griesenko, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u125	Anatoly Gritsenko, Civil Position Party. It's at Chechtov's request. Dear colleagues, it has just been said that President Janukovic guarantees an open-minded attitude toward corrupters. I say from this rostrum that whoever disagrees, let them go to trial, the corruption of Mikola Janovich Azarov. The subject involved is the Minister of Energy, the coal industry of Yuri Boyko. The subject of corruption is fictitious government procurement in March of this year's self-contained drilling plant. Overpayment by the state is 1.2 billion dollars. At the official invitation of Gryzenka Azarov, he did not conduct official investigations, nor did he worry about corruption and the loss of 1.2 billion. And he's sending Boyka out for empty answers. And more than that, while I was writing to him, journalists found this company that Naftogaz counted $200 million. The head of the company doesn't know about this. Don't you care about this corruption? He's worried. Please, my last name is Azarov, Boyko. There will be no law, there will be corruption further. With all the presidents, all the premiers need order.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u126	Ladies and gentlemen, the matter has been discussed. The committee decided to recommend a bill to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The main scientific and expert office believes that the bill needs to be returned to work. A proposal for adoption is put to the vote on the basis of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation to counter bribery. [[Registration number 8023]] [[11:50:17]] For 104 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Region Party – 1, "BUT" – "Fathership" – 59, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 20, communists – 0, "Reforms for the Future" – 20, National Party – 0, non-factional - 4. I am voting on the second proposal to return the bill to the subject of the right of legislative initiative for pre-operation. [[11:50:55]] For-100 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. The factions? Please. Regional Party – 0, "BUT – Fatherland" – 56, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 21, communists – 0, "Reforms for the Future" – 20, National Party – 0, non-fractional – 3. A draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the legal consequences of violations by judges, prosecutors and investigators of human and civil rights and freedoms, as established by the Constitution of Ukraine, is being introduced. [[Registration number 8615]] The rapporteur and co-rapporteur is the head of the committee's subcommittee on law enforcement activities, Yuri Volodymyrovich Prokopchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u127	Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! Recently, a law enforcement committee was held to review Bill 8615, with the participation of representatives of the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine, the Ministry of Internal Affairs and other law enforcement agencies. The committee supported the bill and recommended that it be accepted as a basis. I want to pay particular attention to what this bill refers to, given its adoption as a law, investigators, prosecutors and judges who are already retired, and having it allegedly for their own quality work as it should be. However, during their retirement by the courts of Ukraine, there may be international courts, and such cases are, the establishment of crimes involving violations of human rights and freedoms. Regrettably, it should be noted that in our country, when it comes to the issue of the criminal responsibility of investigators, prosecutors, judges, the appropriate authorities are quickly dispossessed of these people, sending them away for retirement and not for ordinary ones, but for a special one that is ten times more than minimal. Criminal persecution does not occur in connection with the release of such persons. Citizens who have suffered from such highly paid pensioners have been beaten by the thresholds of the courts, some have reached the Supreme Court, some at the level of the European Court of Human Rights, and have been given the appropriate conclusions as to how the actions of these pensioners are found to be illegal, in such a way as to violate human rights and freedoms. And as you can see, it takes 5 or 10 years to get decisions like this. Having failed in national justice, Ukrainian citizens turn to international institutions. Thus, in 2009, the European Court of Human Rights ruled on a renewed violation of human rights and freedoms, in particular the case of Mironenko and Martinko v. Ukraine. " against Ukraine," Isaiah v. Ukraine." And only in the first half of 2011, the same court dealt with over 580 cases involving Ukrainian citizens. In general, the International European Court of Human Rights has doubled in 2011. This is the situation that is real in the state. And now it's up to the state of Ukraine, not the judges, the prosecutors, the investigators who made illegal anti-constitutional decisions, as you know, an amount of 130 billion, of which, by the way, about 6 billion have already been paid. Again, this is not from the pockets of those who make decisions in courts, those who violate illegal criminal cases, but directly from the state of Ukraine, that is, from the state budget. Because of the expiration date of the former prosecutors, judges, and investigators, it is no longer possible to attract. So I suggest that in 5-10 years, in this term or no matter when an unlawful act has been committed against the defendants, those who are illegally convicted, those who are illegally staying in the S.I.S.O. and so on, the guilty party has been deprived of a high prosecutor's or investigator's pension, namely, of being transferred to retirement on general grounds. And that'll be fair. And that's exactly where we're going to think about where we're going to take the budget so we don't cancel the benefits to Afghan veterans, to the Chernobyls, to the other 16 categories of people who'll be back under the walls of the Supreme Council tomorrow. Because, unfortunately, we have political moments, although this law is absolutely not political. It must be accepted forever. I think there are a lot of my colleagues in this room from different parties and factions that the electorate is talking to have suffered from this kind of right-wing grief. But as national deputies, we cannot help them again because of the lapse of time. In 2007, the Kyiv District Court of Odessa was sentenced to 5 years' imprisonment of a senior investigator from the particularly important cases of the Ukrainian Ministry of Foreign Affairs in the Odessa region, Lieutenant Colonel Yuri Filimonova, who was investigating a criminal case involving the illegal activity of an international criminal group in Ukraine. In 2010, he was acquitted of the absence of incriminating four crimes. Despite repeated appeals by Ukrainian national deputies to the Attorney General’s Office and other law enforcement agencies, the charges of the unlawful conviction of investigator Philimonov are not brought to justice by law. By the way, there's one very well-known example where one of the leaders of the state was convicted twice, and as it turns out, 10 years later, it's totally illegal. Where, then, were these judges who were judging, those prosecutors, those investigators who were violating the criminal case? Apparently on his elevated pension. Dear colleagues, our committee and the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons have supported this bill in order for today's law enforcement officers, investigators, prosecutors and judges to "measure seven times" before considering attracting a person to unlawful criminal responsibility. It should be noted that in the vast majority of the conclusions, including the Scientific and Experimental Authority, which proposes to reject the bill, it is noted that such cases are already regulated by legislation. I make it clear that this refers only to the responsibility of the judges provided for by the Ukrainian Law on Judiciality and the Status of Judges. With regard to investigators and prosecutors who have already committed crimes but who have been credited with huge pensions, there is no legal norm on which to list them. Ukraine’s higher specialized court on civil and criminal matters has made appropriate suggestions that can also be taken into account and made to the second reading. So I would like to support this bill and recommend its adoption as a basis for the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u128	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's ask the reporter after the break, shall we not take a break? I'm gonna take a break. A break of up to 12 hours is announced for 30 minutes. After the question was interrupted, the reporter.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u129	Dear colleagues, I propose we continue our work. I invite Yuri Prokopchuk to the rostrum. And I'd like you to sign up for a question to the reporter. Names of the national MPs, please. Andrey Pavlovski, Faction "BUT" - "Fatherhood."
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u130	Andrey Pavlowski, Timoshenko's Yulia Block - Fatherland. Dear reporter, Mr. Yuri, we thank you for the very relevant law. Because all of us and the citizens are witnesses when there are representatives among the famous judicial prosecutor’s corps who, for bribes and for money, make unjust decisions, take such extreme precautions as arrest. And there's a reference to the European structures that are the most arrested people in Ukraine. That's why we need to adopt this law so that those who make unjust decisions don't have the law that people suffer to be punished to at least get rid of the huge pensions that they get in addition -- prosecutors, judges, investigators. And we need to make that decision. What is more, there is an appeal to both the European Court and then the State of Ukraine from the budget for such disgruntled judges and prosecutors still pays every citizen.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u131	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u132	Well, it's probably already, as they say, an offer. But I would like to stress once again that this bill has to work for the future. And here, perhaps even under a political situation, where today the actual trial of Yulia Timoshenko, of Yuri Lucenk, but still a large, huge group of Ukrainian citizens, on which the state is now going to spend 130 billion per claim, is also on this plane. And of course, these costs could be paid because, as we know, the entire budget of Ukraine -- 270 million is transferred to offshore. Again, apparently, illegal court decisions, there, due to raids and all that sort of thing. That is to say, this article in some way, even though it introduces into pension legislation, including the Criminal Code, which deals with additional forms of punishment, is an explanation. And it has to work on the future and constantly, no matter what.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u133	Yes, Vladimir Karpuk, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u134	Dear Yuri Volodymyrovich, thank you for your legislative initiative. The recently published data from the Institute, the Kiev International Institute of Sociology and, according to this data, first of all, the corruption of the DAI workers, next of all, judges and militia personnel, and so on. And the things you're talking about are wrong decisions. The legal process, the delay and so on, the political pressure is often used by the judicial system. To what extent do you think the adoption of your law will affect these processes? How much will be involved in the fight against corruption, and in the use of the judicial branch of power to combat opposition, in the conduct of political repression in the state? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u135	First of all, once again the result of appeals to the courts is usually payment, a claim to the State of Ukraine. This is the decision to pay from the state budget. The judges, the prosecutors, the investigators who committed these crimes, who were then proven, are, at best, already dismissed and retired, are receiving all the benefits. And so, of course, what you're talking about has to be legalized. It is legalized in a simple, direct and understandable way for all. That is, a person who today makes illegal decisions should think that even when he is retired, he will be held accountable. Besides, I want to say in Volina, in your opinion, it was an illegal decision by a prosecutor's deputy in relation to a lawyer, the court found it illegal because he had no right, this district attorney's deputy, only the district attorney has the right, let's say, to file cases. Nevertheless, simple investigators can now demean, including protection, which is always outside the gates that are overlooked, even to the All-Ukrainian Forum. Lawyer.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u136	Olga Bodnar, faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u137	Thank you very much. Olga Bodnar, Timoshenko Street, Fatherland Party. Dear colleague, please tell me there is a chapter in the Codex, which is specifically designed as "punishment and its kind." And there are certain, certain types of tax penalties are provided, such as no military title, no qualification class, and so on. As far as retirement is concerned, such a type is not foreseen in this chapter. And how do you see the solution? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u138	Thank you. Obviously, there is a real need for chapter X, especially as I recall, article 54, to make a part of a second that would foresee, as a form of additional punishment, the right to be deprived of the benefits, just for the category of workers who are already using these benefits, and that is exactly what will agree with this, including such an additional type of punishment. [[investigators, judges, prosecutors]] This is appropriate and, I think, for the second reading, there is a need to harmonize with the Criminal Code. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u139	Yes, thank you, too. Time's up. Please sign up for the factions. All right, we're doing a recording. Please put your name on the board. Olga Bodnar, Vladimir Olijnik, Mikola Kulczynski Now, please sign up for the national MPs. Please put your name on the board. Olga Bodnar, Olijnik, Culczynski, Moses, Yavorowski, Korz, Karpuk, Pavlovsky, Shevchenko Please, Olga Bodnar, Faction of the Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u140	Thank you very much. Olga Bodnar, Timoshenko Yulia Block, Fatherland Party. Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! The proposed bill certainly needs to be adopted. It will be an incentive for those on whom the most difficult task and responsibility lies, including prosecutors, judges, investigators who carry out their duties and should faithfully carry out them, to act exclusively in accordance with the law. The project foresees that even after a long period of time has passed since the violation of human constitutional rights and freedoms by the individuals mentioned, legal responsibility for this will take place in the form of the abolition of pension benefits and the recalculation of pensions on a general basis. Persons lose the right to receive a pension in the event of a legal force of the decision of the Ukrainian court or a decision of an international judicial institution establishing the act of a judge, prosecutor or investigator of a violation of the rights or freedoms of a citizen established by the Constitution of Ukraine during the term of office which gave them the right to receive such a pension. If there are no signs of crime in actions, such as the ex-Prime Minister, there is no reason to file a criminal case. And if the investigators of the Attorney General's Office knew that their criminal actions would be the punishment of taking out the benefits, I think they would have thought about whether they should act legally or act on other grounds. The same is true of the court. Femida’s servant should realize that any decision he makes if it violates human constitutional rights will harm him. Today, the court has deprived Timoshenko of his freedom, and although Timoshenko was present at each session and did not interfere with the establishment of the truth in the case and did not evade the courts. Constitutional rights are clearly violated, and the judge is not responsible. I want to remind you that the project is simply necessary because the situation of violations of constitutional rights and freedoms in Ukraine is catastrophic. Ukrainians are increasingly turning to the European Court of Justice for protection. For the number of applications made against Ukraine, we are already in fifth place. This will result in the lack of even four budgets to pay for the shameful debts or the unjust consequences that our citizens face. I believe that this law will be a precautionary measure and will be able to protect people to some extent from the acquittal of those who are placed in very serious, responsible responsibilities — the protection of human rights and freedoms, particularly of investigators, prosecutors and judges. The faction will support this bill, and please support the bill as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u141	Thank you, too. Vladimir Olijnik, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u142	Dear colleagues, of course, need to increase the responsibility of judges, prosecutors, and investigators for violations of the constitutional rights of citizens, but do not make the situation absurd. The point is that some of these issues are already settled in the law. Pensions are appointed according to the special law and the prescribed mechanism and principles on which they are credited, as well as on the basis of which a special pension is available. And the question is not that someone committed a criminal crime, got a conviction, and the problem is that he stays with a special pension, no. There are mechanisms for the retirement of this pension as well as for the removal of a special pension as a result of a disciplinary act where a person is released from the organs and is also exempt from special pensions. The author suggested that the grounds for the withdrawal of a special pension should be extended, and added such things that any violation of constitutional rights and freedoms could be abolished by a special pension. For example, for example, an official in a timely manner has responded to an informational request for a day, two, three. All right, is there a violation of constitutional rights? Yes, but the level of legal responsibility is quite different: either disciplinary responsibility or administrative responsibility. And this is not the only fact that we can automatically take away an official who is now at a certain point in his retirement, a special pension. And there's a different approach. When is it necessary even here in this project to determine, after all, what are the terms of attraction for which facts of violation of constitutional rights and freedoms can such decisions be made? It'll give you, I'll tell you, another part is not about order, it's about making some kind of chaos. And here I am in full solidarity with the Science and Experimental Authority that it concludes with a firm conclusion: to reject this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u143	Mikola Kulczynski, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense" faction. Vladimir Moses will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u144	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! The Ukrainian society, which is so difficult to extract from its totalitarian and colonial past, certainly needs to focus on rights and freedoms. pension rights and freedoms of Ukrainians, Ukrainians. And that's why this law is very relevant. Because there's a relapse in totalitarian thinking in the judges' system, when judges are used to implementing the Company's decisions, they're now implementing decisions of authority, of any authority, or of whoever pays the money: the prosecutor's office, the police, which. in which legal consciousness is very and very low, because it's a deformity of many citizens. Especially those with authority have been acquired since then. And these distortions, these internal diseases need to be treated. The law is designed to make the fundamental principle of the development of any democratic society in the rights and freedoms of citizens a cornerstone. And there's no excuse that he forgot to give an answer and he's going to get a special pension. Don't forget, it's the right of citizens to access public information according to the law. They will be punished, and if this law is adopted, they will be punished, and those who have at least removed their special benefits, who has shut down Harkowi’s television companies? Is that public official who took a piece of land in his old grandmother’s head? These things are at every turn right now. So I think this law is absolutely necessary. At the same time, he certainly needs substantial work to be done before reading again. You have to think about the specific rules that are constitutional, and put them in a law that should lead to the loss of special pensions. Next. Another idea. In developing support for this idea – strengthening the role of citizens' rights and freedoms in Ukraine – the author would have, or a group of authors, to draft a bill that would allow, and this bill should be adopted by Parliament, which would allow citizens to appeal to the Constitutional Court for violations of their rights and freedoms. And the decision of the Constitutional Court should be the basis for punishment such as the abolition of this special pension. So our faction supports fundamental things, supports the bill itself, which is expensive to us, fundamental things -- human rights and freedoms, and invites the Supreme Council to accept it as a basis for the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u145	Vladimir Romanovich Moysik gives the right to speak to Oleg Lyashko. Vladimir Yavorowski will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u146	Thank you. A colleague from the Party of the Regions says that there is a violation of the Constitution when a judge is asked to withdraw a special pension for one reason or another. Respectful colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine, are in violation of the Constitution when millions of Ukrainian citizens who have worked their entire life receive 800 dollars of pension, while officials receive 15 - to - 20 thousand dollars of pension. It's a violation of the Constitution, it's immoral when people's deputies, officials who retire, get 200,000 dollars of material aid. This is a violation of the Constitution. It is a violation of the Constitution when pensions are assigned to different categories of legislation. Officials make their own decrees, and the people's own is a general law. Similarly, it is a violation of the Constitution when women are raised to a retirement age and an insurance period that gives them the right to receive a pension, when disabled persons require 15 years of insurance to give him that pension, and from men to 35 years of age. It is a violation of the Constitution when millions of people have nowhere to work, what to earn, and how to feed their families. That's what we have to talk about, and you're complaining about special judges' pensions. We need to eliminate all special pensions for both judges and prosecutors, and for deputies, and for officials, and for the President, and for the Prime Minister, and for ministers who are sitting here in the government. Everyone has to be the same, under the same law, to receive pensions. And the pension has to be paid according to the conditions in which a person worked and his job, not as it is today: he worked, he didn't work, you get the same pension. Our authority does not solve this problem; today’s defect robs millions of Ukrainian citizens of pensions because of the loss of benefits. And when, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich, I warned you yesterday at this rostrum that you would not bring the people in because they would come out of the villas, you all reacted sceptically. Twenty minutes later, the people were here in the hall and, thank God, they had not reached this session hall. 'Cause if you did. And another time, if you take the last one from them, they'll come and get you out of here. And those who are yelling, laughing today, looking at the citizens, ignoring their interests, I mean representatives of the authorities, running like anchor goats, on underground alleys, and they'll find you there. Because you think you're going to be saved on planes yes on helicopters, you're not going to get away from people, you're not going anywhere from the Ukrainian people. So cancel all the special pensions, raise people's pensions, and take out the officials. This has to be a program of action.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u147	Vladimir Yavorowski, "BUT" faction, "The Fatherland." The following will be the national deputy, Korge.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u148	My colleagues, I really like the phrase of the brilliant German writer and thinker Bertold Brecht, who said, "The one who fights can lose, the one who doesn't fight has already lost." I said that before, it would seem, in Parliament, that the entire best intelligence of the Ukrainian nation, the Ukrainian people, would be gathered in a political and ethnic sense. There should be a concentration of morals, consciences, orderliness. And if that were true, we would all literally be forced to do so today. Perhaps there would be no person here who would not report what is happening today in Ukraine with respect to the laws, the judicial system, the prosecutorial system. But today, if you'll excuse me, every midwife in the village knows perfectly well that the Attorney General's Office is headed by the President's godfather, who has long known one another, today the trial of Yulia Timoshenko has exposed the futility of our judicial system, where it is absolutely clear to everyone that there is no independent court. He's sitting there, winking at me, winking at him, but he can't see me, and I can't see him because he's looking at a monitor that someone from the President's Administration will write to him. After all, in the morning when he came to the trial, Kiriev himself did not know that he would have to let Yula Timoshenko go for two weeks. How Can I Let Go? Not to bring her to trial, but to keep her in a cell. The trial of Yuri Lucenk also proved to be of no value, all the immorality of the Ukrainian courts of Pechersky, first of all, which, you know, was so exonerated by the authorities, that they long searched for Kiriev somewhere in Berezan, which I know very well to bring him here to be humble, normal. Today we are discussing how to secure a pension and so on by our judges and prosecutors. But, society, we understand very well that today the judge should have paid for his work as a judge, not his salary, for he will have everything brought to him. And we know that. And he's going to make that decision that he's more comfortable with in a bag or something. Because of this, the world today sees Ukraine as a denial, in fact, today we have become a reservation in everything: and in the way the prosecutor, as Nechvolod worked, this prosecutor. This miserable community of writers, who have nothing, is literally jerking off every week, and they can't find anything, nothing, for years 3-4. That's why we're going to vote in favour of this bill to the BJTs, knowing you have the guts to vote for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u149	National Deputy Corge. The right to speak to Andrew Pavlovski, right? Yes, please, Andrew Pavlovski, the "BUT" faction. Vladimir Karpuk will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u150	Andrey Pavlovski, "The House of Yulia Timoshenko" is "The Fatherland". Respectable compatriots! A very important bill is needed. Because you and I are witnesses of how, as a result of unqualified intentional or useful actions by prosecutors, judges, investigators, thousands of people have been affected when they are abused by an extreme measure of precaution, such as arrest, and thousands of people who are subjected to the same economic crimes, otherwise could be protected, imprisoned. And it's often because they've been ordered by either business competitors or someone wants to own their property. So the investigator takes part or the prosecutor in this criminal business, closing people down, then demanding their release. So in the middle of it, I'm sure most honest prosecutors and judges don't find scum that break people's fate, they have to have some kind of fuses, including getting them out of high-end special pensions. And for the sake of justice, it has to be said that the Fatherland faction has introduced the Single Principles of Retirement Insurance Act as an alternative to the Government's Retirement Genocide Act. One must be a pension law for all. Pensions should be calculated in one formula, in one principle. And if you have any special merit before the state, please receive the corresponding allowances from the state budget. And that could be decided if the authorities had the will and desire to do so, but unfortunately that is not the case. I would also like to point out that we are witnesses of what is going on in the caveyard and over Julius Timoshenko, and over Yuri Lucenko, and over other political prisoners. Is it possible to call the judges of these puppets of Kiriev, Vuka, who are doing the will of the President's administration and cannot decide for themselves? Is that justice? Is that a judge? Some of them resemble selling creatures, terrified of being unable to make a judicial decision because they fear for their pursuits and careers. But I hope that honest judges, prosecutors and investigators are still more. And that's why this law is for them, to support them, so that there is no possibility of decent judges and prosecutors being punished in any way, if they have broken the fate of the people, they must also be responsible.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u151	Vladimir Karpuk, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Microphone, please turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u152	Vladimir Karpuk, "Our Ukraine". We support the legislative initiative of Yuri Volodymyrovich to supplement a number of laws with provisions to extend the scope of cases in which judges, prosecutors and investigators are deprived of a special pension over the years. International institutions, which have been investigating human and civil rights for many years, have noted that in Ukraine the situation has deteriorated in many ways in recent years. And we know a lot of ratings for how many points Ukraine has lost that position in international co-operation. Unfortunately, we have also heard from the mouth of the majority of the parliamentary representatives that the legislative initiatives on those positions introduced by the People's Deputy Prokopchuk are neither justified nor adequate. But at a time when those who have to abide by the laws that are on the watch for the law, prosecutors, investigators, judges, and laws break their oaths and, in many cases, deliberately commit these crimes, cannot be considered to be inappropriate initiatives. Our faction and our MPs support this bill, and we propose to adopt it as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u153	Andrew Pavlovsky now. Who are you giving it to? Yuri Prokopchuk, please, the "BOUT" faction, "The Fatherland." With whom? Ah, Chewchenko. We can't, four minutes, please get together, four minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u154	Honorable Ukrainians, honourable chairman, respected colleagues! I wish I could. Ukrainian citizens. I'd like you all to understand what this legislative initiative is really about, by the way, given by a group of authors, because there's a group of deputies that you see in this law besides me. It is designed to help honest judges, honest prosecutors, honest investigators, and others who take both in criminal proceedings and in investigations, as this large part of the people are concerned with not violating the law that they are bound to violate. Or they are doing this on their own, at the expense of their promises of office, because they are offered perspectives or stupid money. And I am convinced that most in Ukraine, both judges and investigators and prosecutors are honest. So that the state of Ukraine does not suffer political losses for the decisions that are being made today in the "coffee court", which have been mentioned when this unprecedented court over Yulia Timoshenko, over Lucenko, over other political prisoners, is being evaluated by the whole world, as well as by economics, because it is already 130 billion, I remind you, that the state of Ukraine has to pay for the decisions of such judges, prosecutors and investigators. Where are they taking them? They don't have any responsibility, they're on pensions and they get these elevated pensions. Thus, the proposed law deals with all these issues. And let us, fellow workers, think about the eternal and the future. "Everything flows and everything changes." You know that expression. And the power is changing, and eventually it's going to change. The opposition with power is changing, and then we're going to hear about what's going on on the other side. I am firmly opposed, personally, as a Ukrainian citizen, as a deputy against always continuing the war with each other, to order criminal cases, to have political prisoners in Ukraine and to have trials other than political prisoners who say that 580 cases today are in the International European Court of Justice and are decided in favour of Ukrainian citizens against the Ukrainian State. This means that those investigators, judges, prosecutors made an illegal decision. That's the point. So let us be consolidated, thinking about the future, and in order to avoid such cases, let us adopt this law as a basis. And for the second reading, we'll all work together and come up with a constructive solution. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u155	Thank you, too. You're the only one who's overly optimistic about the number of cases before the European Court of Justice. We're in third place, the European Court of Justice accounts for thousands. Dear colleagues, the committee is proposing to adopt the bill as a basis. The main scientific and expert office considers it appropriate to recommend rejecting the bill. I therefore put to the vote a regulatory proposal on the adoption of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts on the legal consequences of violations by judges, prosecutors and investigators of human rights and freedoms and citizens established by the Constitution of Ukraine. [[Registration number 8615]] [[13:03:34]] For-66 The decision is not taken. I am voting on the proposal to return the bill to the subject of the right of legislative initiative for further work. [[13:03:58]] For-65 The decision is not taken either. The bill was rejected. Dear colleagues, the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. [[on improving the social protection of military personnel and their families]] [[Project registration number 8523]] Rapporteur – Ukrainian National Deputy Roman Omelanovic Zabzaluk, co-rapporteur – first Deputy Head of the National Security and Defence Committee Sergey Rafailovich Greenewecki. Roman Omelyanovich, as we consider.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u156	Short cut.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u157	Yes, the proposal from the author, from the committee, by a reduced procedure. Please record this for the protocol and I'm putting this motion to a vote. Please vote. [[13:04:59]] For 218. Decision taken. Please have a report.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u158	Ladies and gentlemen of the national council, honourable citizens! The purpose of Ukraine’s draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine is to improve the system of State support for military personnel and their families, as well as to strengthen the protection of their social rights. [[on improving the social protection of military personnel and their families]] [[Registration number 8523]] Unlike the Ministry of Defence initiative, which in the second year in a row comes with only unfounded proposals for the reduction of the Ukrainian Armed Forces and the introduction of the so - called pension reform, which, in a mild sense, has narrowed down the objective preferences of the military’s pension. My colleague, Andrey Kožemjakin, and I invite Parliament to return to the problems of the military, their families, and to take care of them. Because the military service has a special character and is directly linked to the most responsible chain of activity, protecting the homeland. With the bill, we propose to establish a 75 - percent military salary and salary component of the entire financial security that will allow for a more objective assessment of the activities of military personnel and those compared to them, while minimizing the corruption component of the payroll. In addition, it is proposed that the size of the salaries indicated, especially the salary, be recognized as basic in the calculation of the total financial security, as well as in the establishment of monthly additional types of financial security. The initiatives proposed will ensure a substantial increase in the overall financial provision of military and law enforcement personnel. The bill also proposes to renew the provision of supplies and food rations to the military and compensation for which the extradition has been suspended, unfortunately contrary to the Constitution of Ukraine. Based on government declarations that the crisis has been overcome and that each year the GDP will increase by at least 5 percent, there is good reason to resume.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u159	Turn on the Microphone, allowing you to finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u160	There is every reason to renew the constitutional rights of military and law enforcement officials, including goods and food rations. The necessary expenditure can be covered by increasing privatisation revenues and optimizing the efficiency of budget use. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the Committee on National Security and Defence believe that this bill can be adopted as a basis. Taking into account the difficulties they and their families have experienced in their personnel service in the Ukrainian Armed Forces and law enforcement agencies, please support the proposals and vote in favour of the draft law in the first reading. [[Registration number 8523]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u161	Yes, thank you, too. Sergey Rafailovich Greenewecki is the first deputy head of the National Security and Defence Committee to report on the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u162	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished colleagues, in accordance with the mandate of the Supreme Council of the National Security and Defence Committee, discussed draft law No. 8523 at the September 7th meeting of the Ukrainian People’s Deputies. The bill is designed to improve the legislative regulation of guarantees of State support for military personnel and their families and to improve their social protection. In particular, it is proposed to introduce a new rule into the Ukrainian Act on Social and Legal Protection of Military Servants and Members of Their Families, according to which the salary and salary for military personnel from 1 January 2012 should be at least 75 per cent of the total amount of money. In addition, it is proposed that the provision of food rations be renewed and that families of military personnel be given the right to travel free of charge with military personnel on vacations within Ukraine, and that changes be made to the Law on certain measures for the economy of budgetary resources. The proposed changes to these laws, according to the drafters, require additional spending from the state budget of nearly 500 million dollars a year. However, according to the Minfin and the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on budgetary matters, additional expenditure from the State budget on the implementation of the bill will amount to at least 860 million dollars a year starting in 2012. The necessary expenditure is proposed to cover the increase in revenue from privatization and optimization and increased efficiency in the use of budgetary resources. As has already been reported, the Chief Scientific and Expert Office believes that the first reading of the bill can be adopted on the basis of the comments and suggestions made to it. National MPs, members of the National Security Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u163	Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u164	In agreement with the expert opinion, the Supreme Council of Ukraine is recommended to accept the project as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u165	Yes, thank you. Dear colleagues, please sign up to exchange your thoughts on this bill. Yes, Vladimir Karpuk, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u166	Vladimir Karpuk, "Our Ukraine". Please give the floor to General Petruk Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u167	National MP Petruk, please microphone or stand by.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u168	Dear colleagues! I appeal to all the national MPs to really support this bill, it is, for the time being, relevant and we have, today, to support our military personnel and their families. For no one is it a mystery that our military personnel and their families, well, for the time being, are living at a very low level and are in a pitiful form. That's why I think that consciousness here is going to show up in everyone's hands and everyone is supporting this thoughtful, good bill for our military personnel and for our families of military personnel. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u169	Andrey Pavlovski, "BUT" faction. Then Jaroslav Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u170	Andrey Pavlovski, faction of "The House of Yulia Timoshenko" is "The Fatherland". Respectable compatriots! Dear colleagues! Your attention has been given to a bill that is more up-to-date than ever before on support at the legislative level of military personnel and strengthening the issues related to it — money, social protection of the military personnel themselves, their families. Because you and I know what the real state of things is now, our army, the military warehouse, when people don't get what's right for years, what's legal for them, they're waiting for tens of years for an apartment that I don't get, and so on. What's more, the army needs to be supported first, it protects our borders. Unfortunately, for some reason, the authorities are now giving priority to more police structures, more penal structures. And we know there's been an increase in the funds provided by the officers of Berkutu, other special forces that should launch peaceful demonstrations and protests against our citizens. I think, on the contrary, the authorities should spend more money to support the army, because the army has planes, a fleet, a special complex equipment. In the militia, except for the rubber stakes and the stomach gas, it's not there. Then why does the militia get 13.5 billion and the army? Is that okay? The army should receive three, four times as much funding as in normal states, and military personnel should receive four times more money. Lieutenant's salary in the army should be no less than a thousand dollars. Then we'll have a real army.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u171	Jaroslav Suhi, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u172	Dear colleagues should certainly thank the drafters of the bill for, at least, allowing the public's attention to the state of social protection of our members of the military to be drawn to the attention of the public. But I want to make a note of the young man who was here, and because of the flatfoot in the army, he didn't serve. You stop eating military and law enforcement because when you get pecked in one place, you're the first to shout "caroul" and "militar." As a former army officer, I remember my salary. And to the officers of today’s officers, remember 213, Lieutenant, 260, Senior Lieutenant. So the way you've gone is not exactly what we want to achieve. And this observation, you had to think about the proposed position, about limiting the additional payments of only 25 percent to the military's financial security, actually, Roman, would lead to a deterioration in the material situation of the military and their families, and to a lack of motivation. And one more thing. Dear colleagues, remember, the social status of an officer of the Soviet army was at the top of the line: housing, first of all; work provided by the family, first of all; after the service was completed, he was provided with a place of residence or a place of choice. That's why we have to accept, and I'm going to vote with two hands and prepare at all intersections, a comprehensive bill that would help improve the social status of our military personnel. And to conclude, once again, it is extremely difficult, dangerous work in our law enforcement. Stop eating them, there are provocateurs out there without you. We should think of all the people in the heathen because they are all on the watch for our lives and our material position.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u173	Yes, Vladimir Kaplienko, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u174	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. The MP Group on Reforms for the Future thanks the drafters for taking such a legislative initiative. I would like to remind you that there is a commitment of the state to those who today carry the horses and serve in the Armed Forces of Ukraine. And this commitment needs to be maintained not only in words, but also in government budget accounts and intensification of their material parts, to which we today, unfortunately, do not pay much attention. I'll remind you that in any well-developed country in the world, counting on the maintenance of the army is 1.2 to 1.5 of GDP, and in Ukraine it doesn't go to 0.6, that's a shame. I would like to remind you that military personnel who don't have housing, who don't have a decent, decent salary, who don't have a free pass, who don't have any social security for their lives, are not going to protect this country. And then in a few years, we will influence or support those who will replace them, perhaps not Ukrainians.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u175	Dear colleagues, the bill is closed. The committee proposes to adopt a bill as a basis. The main scientific and expert office also believes that the bill can be adopted as a basis. Let us support this proposal, especially since it states that the actual costs are regulated by the decision of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, with the exception of one leave position when all family members are away, it is absolutely free of charge. I think we're going to have to have another discussion on this. I'm voting on a proposal for adoption based on the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[on improving the social protection of military personnel and their families]] [[Registration number 8523]] Please vote. [[13:18:33]] For 133 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Region Party 6, "BUT – Fatherland" – 57, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 21, Communists – 25, "Reforms for the Future" – 18, National Party – 1, non-fractional – 5. I am voting on the proposal to return the bill to the subject of the right of legislative initiative for further work. Please vote. [[13:19:18]] For-141 The decision is not supported, unfortunately, and the bill is rejected. Dear National Deputies! I'm announcing a draft law amending the Ukrainian Advertising Act. [[on the prevention of prostitution]] We have two bills here: 2049 and 2049-1. National MP Hennady Hennadyovich Moskal suggests not to consider his bill, not to consider it, since it was introduced in 2008 and he thinks it needs substantial work now. So we have one bill from the author of Uklov Viktor Aleksandrovitch, so let's look at it. How about a reduced procedure? Yeah? Then you tell me. And we'll vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u176	Dear colleagues, the fact is that this bill was also drafted in 2008 and the scientific and expert office has sent its conclusion negative, there are problems with legal technology. The committee has also given a negative conclusion, because the drafter of the bill I claim that the agreed position is to give this bill to us for further work. We don't have any questions about what's relevant, but this bill has to be written in a very different way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u177	Dear colleagues. Is that what this is about? Please, Andrew Shevchenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u178	I just wanted to briefly inform you that the position of the committee is also to get the drafters back to work. We share their desire to solve the problem that we have with prostitution. We agree that we don't have many authorities working in this direction, and the police, and the prosecutor's office, don't use the laws in force until the end. And we think that it's just that the authors might need to look for more effective methods of fighting. If you read the text of the bill, it is suggested, for example, not to use words like "jacuzzi", "massage" in advertising and advertisements. Well, we need to understand that jacuzzi is not necessarily what we can think of, which may be just a simple bathroom for housing, or an unusual plumber. In short, I'm taking the position of committee. The committee's offering to return. To reject the bill, to return it to its authors for processing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u179	But they certainly think, don't they? When it comes to jacuzzi, they definitely think, don't they? Ladies and gentlemen, there is such a proposal that Bill 2049 should vote on the right of the subject of the legislative initiative to recast, and Bill 2049-1 should vote on its removal. Is there no objection? So I put to the vote the first sentence: return to the subject of the legislative initiative of draft law registration number 2049. Author group: Bondarenko Volodymir, Ivan Vernidubov, Vladimir Stretovic, Viktor Ukolov. Please vote on the return of the subject of the right to legal aid. [[13:22:59]] For-79 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, then. I'll put it to the vote on the motions, we don't have another one. I'm voting on the drafts of Law 2049, 2049-1. Please vote. [[13:23:37]] For 223 The decision is not taken. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, I'll put it to a different vote: acceptance as the basis for these projects. If you don't take it as a base, then they're going to be rejected. I'm voting on adoption as the basis of the draft law. [[Registration number 2049]] About acceptance as a basis. [[13:24:11]] For-78 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. I'm betting on a motion for adoption on the basis of the draft law. [[Registration number 2049-1]] [[13:24:36]] For-40 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. So there's not gonna be a jacuzzi, is there? [[B in m in s a l in]] Ladies and gentlemen, I am announcing the draft Law on State-Legal Guarantees for the Protection of Professional Activities of Journalists. Rapporteur – Ukrainian National Deputy Anton Volodymyrovich Yacenko, co-rapporteur – head of the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information, Victor Alexanderovich Ukolov. Anton Volodymyrovich, why don't we take a brief look? Yeah? A motion is put to the vote by the author of the bill to consider the issue of reduced procedure. Please vote. [[13:25:28]] For a hundred and Decision taken. The reporter is Anton Volodymyrovich Yacenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u180	Dear colleagues, well, you have a bill on State-law guarantees for the protection of journalists'professional activities. What moved me to pass this law? To date, as we all know, in Ukraine, power is divided into legislative, judicial and executive powers, and, as it were, fourth power is the power of the press. That is, when a developed State, when it is civilized, with democratic traditions, is stronger there, as it were. The interaction of the press with the authorities, with the people, with other public institutions. Unfortunately, no system document has been adopted in our country in 20 years of independence to guarantee the rights of journalists. And unfortunately, today, we are in a negative position to prosecute journalists, to prevent them in certain areas, and here, in this room, very much refers to the fight against corruption, that is, when journalists are guaranteed professional rights, it is one of the guarantees, one of the tools to combat corruption. In this connection, it is proposed, on the one hand, that certain legislation on journalism be harmonized, on the other hand, to introduce clear legal safeguards for their activities, in particular those related to them. Doing business, accreditation and so on, and so on and so on. Up to criminal responsibility for the prosecution of journalists and, how would you put it? In Ukrainian, they're hampering their activities. So, irrespective of political affiliation, I have a proposal to support this paper in its first reading and, to establish a fairly broad working group in the committee with a profile, to finalize it for second reading. I think it will bring Ukraine closer to the European Union and in general to the developed civilized methods of working in our country and so on and so forth. I beg your pardon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u181	Thank you, sit down, please. The committee will be chaired by Victor Alexanderovich Ukolov, Head of the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u182	Dear colleagues, the bill was discussed by the Committee on Media and Freedom of Speech, and the committee listened to the findings of the scientific and expert management, which indicated that the text and legal terms of the bill were inconsistent with the terms of the laws in force on information and on printed media. Thus, the committee’s conclusion was negative. However, I personally urge you to vote in favour of this bill. Because in my opinion, the increase in fines for obstructing journalistic activity and other positive aspects of the bill outweigh the shortcomings that can be corrected in the second reading process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u183	Dear colleagues, please sign up for the discussion. Vladimir Yavorowski, "BUT" faction, "The Fatherland." Andrew Shevchenko will perform. Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u184	Colleagues, the Faction "BUT" – "Fatherland" will support this bill. He foresees a greater responsibility for violators of article 171 of the Criminal Code. I'll remind you, it's an obstacle to journalists in their activities. We know that this article is still, unfortunately, not working. And we all know our former colleague Kalashnikov, who is supposed to be in the front row, is now even successfully engaged in social and political activities near the famous Pechersky or the sadly famous Cave Court. We think that this bill is a symbolic gesture to support journalists in the difficult situation that is now. I'll give you a fresh example. In Kharkiv on the eighth day, three television companies do not air. Now it's an all-U.S. scandal. These are ATN, A/TVC, and Fora. These are companies that have teams, they have equipment, they have active licenses, but the authorities are finding new and new reasons that these three companies, who know the city of Kharkiv and the area, can't work on air. Everyone who lives in Kharkiv knows exactly why this is happening. Because these three TV channels were very critical about what's going on in the city and what's going on in the country. I'm taking this opportunity to say that this is a fire, not a regional one, but an all-Ukrainian one. Our committee will be discussing this issue today, and all interested colleagues, I also ask for attention. In fact, I think we're in this, and in other cases we need to think about how we can strengthen journalists in the not simple situation that is now in Ukraine, in the context of the collapse of civil rights and freedoms, and how to give to all those who are trying to prevent journalists from working and suppressing freedom of speech. "BUT" will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u185	Olena Bondarenko, faction of the Party of the Regions. Vladimir Landik, please, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u186	Thank you. You know, you might as well support the words that Chevchenko said from the rostrum right now, if we didn't have any examples of what's being done on the air, on the Internet, in print media, when we have "orders," the personal opinion of any journalist is being raised in the truth at the end when the ginsa is pouring out of everyone in the world. And when we were told yesterday that we should have subtitles, I think we might have to regret at least the deaf so that they don't hear the crap that's pouring out of all the screens, without judging the courts, we have all the criminals, without any conclusions, and so on and so forth. And this bill highlights and gives full rights to journalists for nothing to be held accountable. So it's feudalism, call for a tournament, kill, justify everything. He's not responsible for anything, he's even getting rid of the fact that they've made a commercial secret public. If we had morals in journalism, maybe we shouldn't have to have this bill, and if we don't have morals, and we want to make it legal to light up the ginsom for which they have money and pour all that dirt first and the politicians can last. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u187	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. One minute, there's a speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u188	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! There is one problem. The problem is, if you read the text of the bill, it doesn't really fit in with the nice words about the state of journalism that it is right now. Because if you don't read the text of the bill, just look at the daily title of the Law on State-law Guarantees for the Protection of Professional Activities of Journalists, who's against it. And what's more, you can say all the time that such a cool bill has been introduced, and, you see, the national MPs don't want to give journalists the opportunity to work. But the problem is, I read the text of this bill. And who hasn't read, I want to say what's here. For example, the bill provides for the possibility of asking and receiving from public authorities, businesses, institutions, organizations, regardless of the forms of property and citizens, and I also stress citizens, quote "any information." What kind of bills could that possibly be? What do you mean, "any information"? So if any information that a citizen really doesn't want to submit or not to be given is already considered a violation in accordance with this bill. One second. That's an interesting position when we talk about journalists' rights -- that's great. But you understand very well that there can be no journalism without being responsible for what you write, you speak, and so on. I quote from the text of the bill: "professional duties and responsibilities" remain totally undefined, there is no mention of this in the bill. What does this include? What are the responsibilities of a journalist? For providing unreliable information, for providing deliberately distorted information, for openly ordering information, for publishing information that is not publicized. [[It's very rare for us to have this in Ukraine -- openly ordered information.]] And that's the main point, already mentioned, in the list, in article 5 of the bill, is a list of cases where a journalist is relieved of responsibility. Among these are "disclosure of a commercial secret."
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u189	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u190	I'm talking about it. I'm sorry, so journalists cook closets that are kept in one structure, pissing and destroying other structures. Let's make bills. I don't say who's involved anymore, who has the right to be called journalists? Anyone, any citizen who calls himself a journalist and has a license.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u191	Thank you. Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Let's let Yuri Anatoliovich Karmazin go after the speech, he's having a holiday today.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u192	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen, I understand the Zarubinsky People's Deputy, who now lacks time to express himself fully under the law. I'd like to say such a thing. After reading the whole bill, I also have feelings for it, and you know, I caught myself thinking for the first time that I had a lead member of the Ghanaian Party. She wrote on December 15, 2008, that this bill could not be adopted, that it should be rejected as a result of a committee review. I'll tell you. I'm looking at the changes to the Criminal Code. What is proposed? What Is Today? There is a deliberate obstacle to the legitimate professional activity of journalists – it is. There is a persecution of journalists for their professional duties. This is all in article 171 of the Criminal Code. Who prevents us from applying today? Today, it prevents the lack of political will and professionalism in the actions of officials: militias, prosecutors, the Security Service. That's what gets in the way, nothing gets in the way. There is a legislative basis. The Act on State Protection of State Authorities and Officials. Well, that's what we're gonna do. We're gonna give a presidential order to protect someone. There is another law that says that if a member of the judiciary is required, the investigator makes a decision and there is protection. So these two laws don't have to be changed anymore, because this is where they predicted "that will intentionally cause slight bodily harm." And if slight bodily harm is caused to other categories of persons, what are they, some others? I am in solidarity with my colleague Shevchenk's statement on that.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u193	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u194	I'm done. Thank you. . Because in Kharkiv's television company, which talked about "harkish fascism," they're closed and it's extremely tragic. Because of this particular law, which is here now, where the "sneezed" standards are from different fields, it has not yet justified itself, it's not meaningfully filled and it doesn't match the name. It's called "The State-Legal Guarantees for the Protection of Professional Activities of Journalists." First of all, I told you about the criminal, I told you about protection, and there's no point in this law either. And I also think it's extremely raw, and it should be sent to the author for processing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u195	Thank you. Valerius Kamchatny? Taras Chernobyl, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u196	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues of the Ukrainian National Deputies! Once again, we have to repeat this quote from the Literature Gazette: "Ladies lead, one of the names." It's a nice name, but we're not voting for a name, we're voting for a law. There is no law as such in this text. There is a set of rules that usually either duplicate existing standards or raise open doubts about their relevance. In my view, we do not accept those written down. Therefore, under these circumstances, our parliamentary group will not vote in favour of this bill. To those who spoke and talked about the needs of journalists, I would say, yes, there are needs. Yes, there are problems, we need protection, but we just have to do what we do. As for the "premeditated" Kalashnikov, then the laws in force today, allowing it to be planted, were simply not political will. Then a criminal case was opened and closed because there was a tip on the top. We need to enforce existing laws and enforce them, correct them, but this law, the beautiful name and nothing else, we don't support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u197	Yes, dear colleagues have completed their consideration of the matter. Andrew Schewchenk's replica, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u198	Colleagues, I'm not taking this legislative initiative for the faction of the Party of the Regions. And for the sake of the economy of time, Vladimir Mikhailovich, I refuse to reply, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u199	Thank you, too. Dear colleagues, the committee suggests that you have already been led to the knowledge, to reject the bill. The main scientific and expert office also has a reference to the bill. However, the first vote is based on a regulatory proposal on the adoption of the draft Law on State-law Guarantees for the Protection of Professional Activities of Journalists. [[Registration number 2508]] [[13:41:08]] For-27 The decision is not taken. I am voting on the proposal to return the bill to the subject of the right of legislative initiative for further work. [[13:41:31]] For-19 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. Dear colleagues, we continue our morning session in 14 hours for 15 minutes. A draft Act amending article 17 of the Ukrainian Law on State and Communion Rental is now under consideration. [[on the increase in the duration of the lease agreement with a view to minimizing the impact of the financial crisis on small and medium-sized business entities]] [[Project registration number 3454]] The rapporteur is Ukrainian National Deputy Kseniya Mikhailovna Ljapina, co-rapporteur, head of the Economic Policy Committee Committee, Alexander Mikolayovich Bondar. Kseniya Mikhailn, would you like to take a brief look at it?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u200	Thank you. The thing is, I'll save our time, I'll take it off, I'll just say a few words. Xenia Lapina, Party for Ukraine! Dear colleagues, this bill was passed in 2008. Unfortunately, the pace of our legislative work with you is such that these relationships are actually managed by many other laws. At the moment, article 17 of the Law Governing State and Communal Rental in the same way as a group of authors suggested that it should be adjusted in 2008, subject to comprehensive anti-crisis law in 2009. So right now, this rule is implemented and it doesn't need to be reviewed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u201	Dear colleagues, the proposal is to remove the draft law from consideration is the appropriate draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, given that it has lost its relevance and regulated standards by other legislative acts. No objections? I put to the vote a draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the withdrawal of the draft Act amending article 17 of the Ukrainian Act on Rent of State and Municipal Property. [[on the increase in the duration of the lease agreement with a view to minimizing the impact of the financial crisis on small and medium-sized business entities]] [[Registration number 3454/P]] Please vote. [[13:44:07]] For 279 Decision taken. I am announcing a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the Social Protection of War Children. [[on the provision of social security]] The rapporteur is the national deputy of Ukraine, Sánchenko Andri Vilenović. The committee responsible for the committee is Head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons, Mikola Georgievich Kulczynski. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out to you that this bill has not been considered by the committee. But at the same time, he was registered on June 17, 2011. So we have every reason to consider it. Andrey Vilenovich, why don't we go ahead with the procedure?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u202	Nope. In my view, colleagues, such a bill cannot be considered in a simplified manner.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u203	We're just not going to be able to finish it. Well, please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u204	Andrey Sanchenko, Yulia Timoshenko Block, Fatherland Party. Dear colleagues, one of the members of the Party of the Regions in May this year on the air called children of war “crowds who have not been on the front for days”. Therefore, when addressing the people's deputies of the ruling majority, it must be recalled that the "Social Protection of Children of War Act" at the State level recognized a significant contribution to the reconstruction of the country after the war, its further socio-economic development of Ukrainian citizens, whose childhood coincided with the years of the Second World War. It is 4 million, 300,000 very elderly people, who have not only had a hungry military childhood. These people have restored a war - torn country. These people have created what is commonly called Ukraine's economic potential. In the difficult post-war years, most of them had not been able to obtain education, and most of them are now receiving a minimum pension. The Children of War Act has been in place for seven years, and millions of people's treasuries have not ceased. Article 6 of the Act, which was in force on 1 January 2008, provides that children in the war of retirement or monthly maintenance or government assistance increase by 30 per cent of the minimum age pension. The changes that have been made in this part have been declared unconstitutional, but no changes have been made to the law since the decision of the Constitutional Court. Therefore, each of the millions of children of war must defend their right in court. It should also be emphasized that there have been serious shortcomings in the law. In particular, only those living in multi-housing buildings with central heating and gas supplies or millions of people living in the private sector in rural areas had benefits or reductions. Now basically the bill. In order to address the gaps in the legislation, we propose to amend the Law on the Social Protection of War Children and to establish a monthly pension allowance of 30 per cent of the subsistence minimum, as recommended by the Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council. In doing so, war veterans who have the right to receive the corresponding allowances are given the opportunity to choose under which of the Laws, whether “On the status of war veterans and the guarantees of their social protection”, or whether under the Law on the Social Protection of War Children, it would be possible to choose under which law to receive an allowance. It is also proposed that children of war be established and that the following benefits be granted. 25 per cent reduction in the cost of utilities: gas, electricity, other services, liquefied gas for domestic use, within average consumption standards. The right to a 25 per cent reduction in the cost of housing, within the limits of the rules established by law, and the right to a 25 per cent reduction in the cost of fuel, including liquid, within the limits laid down by law for non-central heating households. Ladies and gentlemen from the ruling majority, the best businesses of the countries created by millions of people in the post-war countries today own Ukrainian oligarchs, sometimes present in the hall or having representatives with parliamentary mandates, I call on you to support this bill. Forced to say, gentlemen, have a conscience, millions of children of war are people worthy of respect for society and a just pension. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u205	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up for the questions and let's work this out. We're not going to read each other's morals, and we're going to be fine, and we're going to be able to demonstrate how many MPs are sitting, and how many are voting. Please sign up for a question to the reporter. Yuri Anatolyovich Karmazin
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u206	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear Mr. Andrew, you have certainly introduced and raised a very serious subject and good law. I have a question for you. Please tell me, do you know the situation that has arisen with the execution of court decisions on children of war, that more than 1 million U.S. dollars are not being implemented today? You and I here have heard the Minister of Finance of Jaroshenko, we've heard that "Levila" is the decision of the court that has been handed down right now. And those decisions of the courts that aren't being executed, and those thousands that are now in the courts, that's how you would repay these debts. And what do you think as a member of the Justice Committee on this issue? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u207	Yuri Anatolievich, Ukrainian authority at each corner declares the rule of law and the inviolability of the execution of judgements. But you were right to say that there is a double morality. And Livela, who grows from the Ukrainian authorities of today, is above the law, and millions of ordinary people suffer multiple humiliations. First, it is when, as a result of this conflict and the failure of the country's parliament to make decisions, millions of people have to stand in court for millions, first of all, for the second time in court to obtain judgements, then for years to follow the executive service. And I'm going to remind you that this whole car is a judicial car and the executive is living off a taxpayer's pocket. So maybe there's something to save or eliminate the Livellah without waiting, so to speak, if you'll excuse me, people will go to Parliament and to the government building, and the President's Administration, and these means will be directed to the millions of people who have created the potential of our country? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u208	Sergey Gordienko, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u209	Sergei Gordijenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company, Poltavščina. Dear Andrew Vilenovich, it is indeed necessary to have a conscience. And that's what I'm telling you because I've been talking to the past government, led by Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko, about the unconditional implementation of all the provisions of the law concerning children of war, but every time I've come up with a definite answer that there are no such funds. Yesterday you were in power and did not implement this bill, today you have taken courage and from the rostrum of the Supreme Council you appeal to conscience and to the implementation of this bill, at least that is unfair. Yes, indeed, we are being beaten today without law enforcement, we are being beaten, sent and marinated in the courts of children of war, and today, even if the courts have made a decision, we are not paying. But we will support, the communists have always supported and supported this bill. So let us all think together about how to do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u210	Dear colleague, thank you for your support for the bill. On the other hand, you are misleading public opinion, since this law was passed in 2004, entered into force in 2006, and the only government that has paid the funds, even to a limited extent, is the Government of Yulia Timoshenko. Neither before nor after any government has implemented this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u211	Oleg Easy, non-faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u212	Thank you. The legislative initiative is essential. Millions of Ukrainian citizens, children of war, are waiting for Parliament to finally mention them and protect them. Not ritualistic duties, as the Communists do. For 20 years in power, millions of people have been led to their graves, their wealth has been used and cherished by the children of war. The money you spend on Lenin’s monuments, the children of war, would be better off. So I propose to support this bill. And those who have promised before the elections -- the present authority -- who will hear all of them, hear those children of war, because they are the next to come after the Afghans, and they will deal with you here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u213	It was a wish. Schmellow Svetlana, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u214	Gordien will.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u215	Sergey Gordijenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u216	Dear citizens of Ukraine! I see in this room today what you're also listening to and seeing. It's just that one very large fighter from a radical party that stands for the happiness of the common people who led the Committee of Budgets in the past, has introduced all the bills that have been directed against pensioners, against the benefits categories, and only because Adam Ivanovich has consistently and our entire faction read these bills and not let them pass, so if you listen to this, don't believe it, just recognize their mask today. Yesterday, when in power, they failed, but today they are lying about what happened and calling for it to be done. The Communists will support this bill. These are the kind of IDs they should receive today from the people of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u217	Dear colleagues! Please! But you exchanged kindness, and there were no surnames. Please. Andrey Vilenovich, so your time is spent in these discussions. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues! Since the committee had not considered the matter, there was clearly no point in the report to be made by the committee. So please sign up for the faction. Who will act? Let's talk about it over here, let's just take 10 minutes to do it. Names of the national MPs, please. [[That's not possible, we're running out of time!]] Please, Yuri Prokopchuk. Then there's Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u218	Yuri Prokopchuk, "BUT is the Fatherland", Ravenshkina. The Honourable Chairman, the Honorable Colleagues, the Honorable Citizens and above all all those categories, 16 to 16, most of whom today have left behind any benefits for the government of Yanukovic! So why do all of us have this -- I say "we," by the way -- kind of a double interpretation of everything? Just recently, when the Party of Regions was in opposition, they criticized the government of Yulia Timoshenko for failing to comply with the Children of War Act! Although it has been said that the first government to begin was the government of Yulia Timoshenko, but it was the government of Yulia Timoshenko, to pay these social guarantees. Today, you're going to completely confiscate all the social guarantees from the military, from the Afghans, from the Chernobyls, from the pensioners, from the teachers, from the medics. Instead of putting an end to political repression against politicians in the country, you started political repression against the entire Ukrainian people, which could be called the genocide of the Ukrainian people. So let's be consistent. I remember the slogan "because it's consistent." And let's support this bill. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u219	Thank you. Yuri Carmazin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u220	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the current Criminal Code is responsible for failing to execute a court order. And that is to say, if it brings out even as much ignorance as this boy in his robe, who is now looking into the Timoshenko case, who has done damage to a judicial system that no one has done in ten years, has dropped it below the plentus with his ignorance, illiteracy, and so on. But if the Constitutional Court's decision is not being implemented, then we think it's normal. The supreme court of constitutional jurisdiction has taken a decision in the name of Ukraine, and it is not being implemented. From this rostrum, I had to report to you a draft law that I was drafting so that we could set up such a responsibility, not wanted at the time, not political will. I think that this political will should be because it was the decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine of 25 May 2008 under 10p that was declared unconstitutional by the changes made to the Law on Social Protection of Children of War, which annulled the increase in the minimum pension age of those people who were sometimes called children of war. These are the children of Ukraine, who then carried on their shoulders all that war had done in Ukraine, but then they gave off the stupid offer of the faction that came out of here, they called it "the children of war." We're standing right now. The question is, and I thank the author, Andrew Sanchenko, Sergey Velizanski, for making this proposal, just to comply with the decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, nothing more. So what questions? Do it, show us that we have the rule of law. And what we are not doing today, Ukraine and this government, you see, there is no government. By the way, Vladimir Mikhailovich, come on, we've got Vice Prime Minister, they're getting there, I don't know, they're opening children's playgrounds. Because the money from Euro is so much! Then put one Vice Prime Minister here, I'm going to the majority. There's no one to listen to us, you know? Therefore, let this government restore those payments, and let us show that we have the rule of law. This project will have to be adopted both in the first reading and in general, and the decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine will have to be implemented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u221	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. But. Don't plant the Deputy Prime Minister. Chechtev, one minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u222	Dear colleagues, the author is absolutely right when he said that children of war are holy people, because some of them were in guerrillas, they were under red flags, they were defending the freedom of their homeland. Today, someone spits in the soul morally. When they scattered the signs of the Victory. It's a moral trait in the soul of the children of war. Further, the author rightly said that children of war had built a powerful, prosperous Ukraine. Someone spits in the past. Once again, it's a weed in the soul to these kids and girls who were 13 years old, 12 years old, and they were fighting, and they were rebuilding the country. Therefore, we will not let the children of war be subject to moral humiliation, we will not allow the flags of victory to be scattered, we will not allow them to be watered in the past, because we are still working in those businesses that they have created today. And we will support them in a material way.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u223	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u224	And we'll support it. The economy has grown, and social benefits will come, but true, real, not lies and lies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u225	Thank you. Question completed. I'm voting on a proposal for adoption on the basis of the Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the Social Protection of War Children. [[on the provision of social security]] [[Registration number 8619]] Please vote. [[2:02:59]] For-84 The law is not adopted. The factions. Region Party 2, BUT 46, Our Ukraine 11, Communists 22, Reforms 2, People's Party, did not vote, non-fractional, 2. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the Social Protection of War Children is under consideration. [[on pension payments]] Registration number 8524. The author of the Suhi bill. There's a proposal for a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[14:03:50]] For 177 Offer accepted. Please, Jaroslav Mikhailovich Suhi. Report, Jaroslav Mikhailovich. From the committee, Kulczynski.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u226	Dear colleagues, you all must have heard a judge arrested in one of Ukraine's cities yesterday. This judge, along with his lawyer, divided the profits from those for whom he had made a positive decision. On the return of the debt on social benefits. The fact is, in Ukraine today, there is a whole industry like this when a lawyer and a judge come out of the budget, and that's how money comes out. But that's not what I'm saying. In my district, like you do, most people complain about what? The law is not being enforced, and judicial decisions are rightful and do not understand how this can be done. This procedure applies to 6 million citizens. 4 million 600,000 of them are people, children of war, who are directly involved in this law. Which, in fact, happened after the adoption of this law, and I want to remind you, twice over the veto. Today, wartime participants, the people who worked in the back, have 10 percent of the pension allowance, the minimum pension. Those who are awarded medals for winning the evacuation job — 15 percent. Fighters, our frontists have 25 percent of the minimum pension allowance and 30 percent of the children of war. So between them, there is a whole series of misunderstandings and misunderstandings between them. That's why my bill is short. I will ask everyone today: If you don’t support the foundation, please support the work, and I will join two laws with my colleague, Sinchenk. The idea is to compare the status of children of war to those of war. They're talking about the amount, and I'll remind you, it's 49 bracelets that have started paying off so stupidly by now, and they're going. Twice the payout for children in war will be increased, and they will receive benefits: free prescription drugs, free dental care, free sanatorium treatment, discount on phone bill. Please support the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u227	Please, Kulczynski Mikola Georgievicz of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u228	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! I'll read the committee's decision. The Committee on Pensioners, Veterans, and Disabled Persons considered the bill at its meeting on June 8, 2011. It has been said that the bill proposes to children of war, except for those to which the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans and Guarantees Their Social Protection applies, to pensions or to the monthly life-long financial benefit or to state social assistance paid instead of pension, to pay an increase in the amount of the allowance established for participants in the war. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine provides a general conclusion that, as a result of the first reading, the bill can be adopted as a basis. About the purpose of avoiding legal collegiates in legislation, the relevance of its editorial refinement in the part concerning the size of this increase. The Committee agrees that the issue that has been raised today is extremely relevant, since the legislative gap that has arisen due to the uncertainty of the minimum pension rate at the age of percent, from which the increase to the retirement rate of war children is expected to result in social tensions for both the population and the additional costs of the Ukrainian Pension Fund for the execution of court decisions. However, the committee decided on the results of the first reading of the bill to re-establish the subject of the right of legislative initiative to work. This decision was based on the fact that, according to current legislation, war participants receive several allowances ranging from 10 to 100 percent of the living minimum for those who have lost their jobs. That is, the adoption of the law in such an order not only will not solve the problems that have been solved, but it can lead to an even greater rise in social tension. Finally, the author of the bill himself asks that the law be put to work, and then all these legal rules will be corrected positively. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u229	Shall we discuss it? Please sign up. Please, Sanchenko, prepare for Gordjenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u230	I give the word to Paul.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u231	Please, Pavlovsky. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u232	Andrey Pavlovsky's "Fatherland" faction. Dear compatriots, a very important question, painful, because, as the reporter said in the courts now, most of the cases and according to the court administration, 64 percent of the cases in the courts are so-called social issues. And most of them refer to the children of war, where they try to protect their interests by means of a court of law. Because he's already running out of time for the second year under Janukovich's authority, and he's starting to pay 49 bucks 80 bucks and he's still going on, although by law the children of war have to get three times the amount. And by the way, when this law began to work, then the Yanukovich government ignored the rules of this law, and only Julia Tymoshenko had a little bit of compliance with these rules, and paid the children the benefit of the war they owned by law. On the other hand, I'd like to draw your attention to the fact that the government has little to do with the law, it's also trying to undo the benefits of children of war, as the law has shown and what the people under the Supreme Council have protested yesterday, and you see, you've even tried to storm it, and some here have mostly fled through underground passages. [[9127]] You don't have to be afraid of the people, you have to follow the rules of the Social Protection Act, including the children of war. And I would also like to point out that we should grant the author's request to send this law for further processing. On the profile committee, they're working on it, and I think they're going to pass the law that they need, and they're going to really protect the children of war. And the Law on Distinguishing Aids.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u233	Please, please, the Communist faction, followed by Pauline.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u234	Sergey Gordienko, faction of the Ukrainian Company. In fact, we're fighting war children today, because the law is not being enforced. Children of war are forced to go to the courts. The courts are completely beating this category of people. For years they have been unable to determine where and in which court, appeal, or local court, the case is pending. The courts cannot overtake such a number of cases and deal with them. There is still an intransigence to delay dealing with these very cases so that some of them will fail, wave their hand, and no longer go to court. And part of it may not have lived to be paid for by the miserable amount of money needed to be paid by law. I'd like to emphasize again, let's not say who did it, let's not say who did it, let's say who doesn't. No one carried it out in the amount needed. And I would like to remind you that in due course, the drafters of the Simonenko and Martinyuk bill were just initiating and forcing the government of Julius Volodymyrovna Timoshenko to implement this bill. Today I would like to draw attention to what has been said. And yesterday, here in this area, and on all the areas and areas of Ukraine that are looking for a source of budget replenishment, it's not about eliminating the benefits, it's about putting in a tax on luxury and wealth today. Today, a progressive scale of taxation needs to be introduced. Today we need to get rid of the drama and make our Ukrainian nadra work for the state. And then there's going to be costs, and there's going to be social laws, not narrowing them down. That's why the faction of the Company of Ukraine supports it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u235	Pavlenko Sergei. None. Stoyan.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u236	Honorable colleagues, certainly war veterans, and those who fought, or were more specifically in the rear, and those who were children of war, have come a very difficult way of war and postwar. And especially those young people, then 17-18 years of work and hard living during the war, deserve support. But what happened when we adopted this law? No one's going to think about it. We passed this law in 2006, when virtually everyone, all the children of war, were already retired and they were already retired. And given the fact that they were really more, let's say in difficult circumstances of life, they made this allowance. But there was something else to do, not in such a way that there was a percentage of the extras, but something else to be said. It is those categories of children who have been identified, or pensioners who have been identified as children of war, who are given a pension allowance, that are included in the structure of the pension. And then there would be no such problems as there is today. As it turns out, a child of war retired, and a year later, no child of war retired. And a child of war is going to get 20-30 percent and not a penny. I'm not talking about what my colleague Suhi said when only 10 percent of the participants in the fighting, 25 percent of the participants, 25 percent of the participants in the fighting, and so on. And that's sad, and it hurts when today thousands of people, millions of people even think that I'm going to go to court and win and then I'm going to pay. This should not be the case, since we have already passed this law, and this is the law, everything must be done in order to provide it financially. And so, of course, what Suhi's colleague is offering, I want to support. There are some colleges in law, we need to send this law to refine, the Dry Law, make proposals and think in principle to somehow stimulate by some other method, rather than by such supplies that it can't really include in the structure of the pension to children of war.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u237	Thank you. Bullying is one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u238	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Parliamentary Group Reforms for the Future, People's Authority, Gennady Zadirko, Mikolayevščina. In fact, today we are considering such an important bill. I personally voted in favour of my colleague's bill. And by the way, our parliamentary group will also vote in favour of the bill of Jaroslav Suhogo. In one position alone, the state owed this category of citizens. And frankly, well, I'm a young enough MP in this House, but I'm, well, embarrassed to hear when different MP factions argue about what faction she voted for. In fact, this is the position of the weak. Let us, honourable deputies, make it possible for any government to carry out this law. Because in fact, if you think about what category of citizens is behind this category -- those are the people who are 65 and older -- those are the people who are, excuse me, the ones who are ending today. And we're spending the day.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-09-21-m0.u239	Yes, the discussion is over. I'll bet. Please, who is your faction manager? There are no faction leaders, and there are two willing speakers. That's why no one's going to make a move. Therefore no one will speak, for there is none of you to delegate. All of it. I'm voting on a proposal to adopt a bill to amend the Ukrainian Act on Social Protection of War. [[on pension payments]] [[Registration number 8524]] Please vote. Yeah. Vote. [[14:17:27]] For-33 Not supported. Proposal for a profile committee: To direct the subject of a legislative initiative for further development Please vote. [[14:17:52]] For 236 Decision taken. The bill is aimed at further development. Dear colleagues, the morning meeting is coming to an end. At 3 p.m., we will have parliamentary hearings on "The Family Institute in Ukraine: the situation, problems and ways of solving them." Start work tomorrow at 10 o'clock. Today, too, the request to hold meetings of the committees that you have outlined. At this morning’s meeting of the Supreme Council, I declare closed.
