ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[11:12:15]] They registered in the 380 National Deputies Sessional Hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will be open. Ladies and gentlemen, let me inform you about the meetings of the Conciliation Council on the issues discussed at the Conciliation Council. The first question is the bill on decriminalization, the humanization of crimes on economic soil. Dear colleagues, the Conciliation Council proposes such a decision. In view of the fact that it was only Monday that proposals for the draft law had been completed and that the committee was constantly working on the bill, and tomorrow the final decision had to be taken at the committee meeting, we agreed to recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine consider the matter on Friday after the "hour of questions to the Government". Before that, when the text of the draft law on second reading is finalized, it should be made available to the faction and consulted with faction leaders on how to treat one or the other, especially positions that have a sensitive nature of political and other coloring. The second issue that we discussed was the question of our colleague, Eugene Soslov. We agreed that on Friday we would have an "hour of questions to the government," the main issue, social issues, including events and demands that are presented to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. At the same time, there will be an opportunity to ask any member of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, including the Minister of Internal Affairs for our colleague Eugene Suslov. With regard to draft Law 9127 on guarantees of enforcement of court decisions, this is the recommendation. After the Cabinet of Ministers, together with the public organizations, first of all those who actively object to this bill will come to a consensus and make a concerted decision and make appropriate decisions with their signatures and agree to all the proposals, we will consider this issue. I mean, as ready as possible, depending on the outcome of the negotiations between the Cabinet of Ministers and representatives of public organizations. The next question is about the 103 people's deputies' initiative on the subject. Whether it is the suspension of the Supreme Council’s terms of office or the election, since this issue is not regulated by the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s decrees, it is proposed that this work be referred to the Committee on Rules, MPs and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council, to the Legal Authority. Let them reach a legal conclusion in this regard. In principle. Oh, and one more question. It's about visiting. It's possible for people's deputies to visit Yulia Timoshenko. We agreed that I would study this issue, look to the experts, to the courts, how this issue is regulated, what can I do to help the people's deputies to realize their aspirations here. That's basically all we agreed on. In principle, we agreed to work, trying to compromise and make decisions that would allow us to maintain a working Supreme Council, and the main thing is to make the results of our work. Thank you, Your Honor, for listening to my information. Dear National Deputies! Today is the birthday of the National Deputy of Ukraine Sanchenka Andrija Vilenović. Let us welcome our colleague and wish him success. [[Applause]] Dear National Deputies! I'm giving you an overview of the plenary work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine from October 18 to 21, 2011. There were six plenary meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. 63 questions of the agenda were considered. As a result of their consideration, 15 laws and 34 regulations were passed, 10 bills were adopted on a basis, 21 bills and 3 draft regulations were rejected. 114 parliamentary inquiries have been announced. Ladies and gentlemen, on October 31st, 2011, the Central Election Commission registered the National Deputy of Ukraine, who was elected on September 30, 2007, in a multi-mandatory national constituency, Black Vasil Vasil Vasilovic, who was included in the election list “Livina Block”. In accordance with article 79 of the Constitution, Ukraine’s national deputies take an oath before the Supreme Council of Ukraine before taking office. In order to make an oath to the rostrum, the National Deputy of Ukraine, Czernoj Vasil Vasil Vassilovitch, is invited. Please, Vasil Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m0.u2	I swear allegiance to Ukraine. I commit myself to upholding Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence by all my actions, caring for the welfare and welfare of the Ukrainian people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m0.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to introduce you to your well-known announcement. In accordance with article 59 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, according to a personal application, I am reporting the entry of the Ukrainian National Deputy to the National Party’s National Party in the Supreme Council of the Sixth Call of Montenegro Vasil Vasilovich. [[Applause]] Honorable National Deputies, in accordance with article 25 of the Rules, are giving talks by factions on Tuesday. Members of the MP's factions, please sign up for the speech. And groups, of course. It's a recording, please. Vladimir Romanovich Moysik. Mikola Martinenko, head of the "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" faction. Next is Valérie Kamchatny. Chaplain, isn't it? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m0.u4	Dear fellow countrymen, dear colleagues! The economic crisis, as always, slipped unnoticed. At least for the authorities, who continue to report encouragingly on the rise of all the mental and unimaginable percentages, from GDP to cabbage crops and milk. Although economic forecasts are extremely alarming. The nation’s gold reserves fell sharply by several billion dollars. Only for September for $3 billion, 250 million. According to some, our gold reserves have dropped from 38 billion to nearly 32. And this fall takes turns. It's a terrible sign. Experts explain that a group of citizens of the currency is totally untrustworthy of authority. During the eight months of 2011, the negative external trade balance amounted to $8 billion, and the balance is deteriorating. Let's call things our names. Ukraine has a preconceived situation. Are we going to hit the same rakes again? The rubble of bracelets hangs over Ukraine today. Another bad thing is clearing the accounts of the State Department. On October 1, there were more than 6 billion dollars, and by the beginning of August, there were 11 billion. The decrease is almost double. The authority controls the payment in manual mode. But soon there will be nothing to distribute. In fact, all regions complain that the Treasury is detaining the budget. Why are the areas undressed? To accumulate costs for astronomical external debt due to nonpayments. Not surprisingly, the amount of cash in circulation has decreased. And a money-free economy is like a dehydrated organism. We've decided to restrict the population's access to the currency by passporting the exchange. It's like pulling the blast, pouring it into a barrel of dust. It seems that Natzbank and the government are deliberately preparing for the collapse of the bracelets. Has anyone ever thought about warming their hands on ordinary citizens again, on new inflation, on rising prices, on the unemployment splatter? Then it is true economic robbery, and the guilt of stealing the people will be criminalized sooner or later. In a normal country, when crises are approaching, normal authorities think first of how to protect the poor. In Ukraine, the authorities are even more enriching the rich, and they are not ashamed to spend more and more money on their maintenance, on their power structures. Free foreign policy directly harms our nation. We appeal to the authorities to publicly explain who, and why did Ukraine’s economic interests in negotiations with Russia? Why did Ukraine refuse any demands to Russia in connection with its accession to the World Trade Organization? Ukraine did not join a working group of countries that had requirements. As a result, we have lost the opportunity to demand an incentive to lower the price of gas and to fully access our goods to the Russian market. Who, personally from the leadership of the State, decided on behalf of Ukraine to give a multibillion dollars to another state? There's a critical mass of discontent in the people, and a chain reaction with a further social explosion can begin at any moment. The opposition calls on the authorities to stop the destruction of the country, the so-called "professional command" in the paws should finally be counted against the basic economic laws.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m0.u5	Thank you, too. Vladimir Caplienko, MP for the Future. Peter Simonenko will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m0.u6	Honorable colleagues, distinguished national MPs, respected citizens! More and more recently, the issue of the need to change electoral legislation has been raised, particularly with regard to the election of Ukrainian national deputies. The parliamentary group Reforms for the Future, taking an active parliamentary position, cannot be left out. And if there is a common political will for Parliament to make such changes, it is ready to make its proposals. Yes, indeed, the electoral system, in our view, is unable to secure the influx of new regional politicians into the higher legislative body. In fact, in recent times, Ukrainian citizens, together with the distinction between the right to elect majority deputies, have lost the ability to actually choose their politicians and lose the prospect of representing the territorial community in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Instead of real ideas and regional development programs with further personal responsibility for their election, only political brands, loud names, and a party of leadership are monopolized, not ideological ones. Unfortunately, most of these political brands do not bring any new ideas to society, and in this we see another element of the electoral crisis. Moreover, Ukrainian politics has remained almost unchanged even in person over the past few years. However, representatives of the same political circle switch places, lose or gain influence, win and lose elections, gain power, or return to opposition. In fact, it's drawing cards in the same log. That is why the country’s political life, unfortunately, does not change in principle. Because we know that it is futile to expect an inadequacy by continuing to do the same as before. Similarly, it is futile to expect changes by continuing to choose the same politicians, simply under other selective brands. Obviously, if we change the electoral system, one of the most optimal options for such a system is for our faction’s deputies to see the introduction of the Ukrainian citizens’ right to self-determination. That's why the head of the MP's Reform for the Future put his signature under the bill on election of MPs, which will be considered on Thursday in the Parliamentary Hall. We are convinced that a changed system with self-determination will lead to the arrival of new politicians with qualitatively new ideas that have already grown up in months. So the chances of candidates running in a one-man district depend on their effective work with the electorate. I mean, in large numbers, it's up to itself. Ukrainian citizens should finally realize that each individual’s personal choice depends directly on who comes into this session hall one year from now. And will the people's chosen politicians really be able to defend their rights and freedoms. And the only real representative of the nation can be a politician who can look his constituents in the eye, take responsibility for each given election word, for each promise, and, above all, put these promises into practice. The MP's "Reforms for the Future" stand ready to support the electoral bill only if the minimum procedure for self-registration of candidates to the MPs and other proposals made by members of our faction aimed at the right of Ukrainian citizens to choose their most worthy representatives and to implement these directions. [[9265-1]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m0.u7	Thank you, too. Simonenko Peter Mikolaiovich, faction of the Ukrainian Company. Please, your performance. Next is Mikhailo Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m0.u8	Dear comrades, dear colleagues, obviously the financial and economic crisis is on the rise, and social tension in society is on the rise and on the rise of catastrophic signs. Ukraine's company on the other hand suggests that the Cabinet of Ministers immediately consider and support the fundamental program we have developed that aims at overcoming crises both in the economy and in the social sphere. We hope that tomorrow at the government meeting there will be a discussion of how to change the direction of reforms today and how to improve the lives of the people of Ukraine. Our anti-crisis programme is aimed at technologically resupplying enterprises and supporting a domestic producer and ensuring the stability of the financial system, energy, food and social security, enhancing the efficiency of government administration and reviewing the priorities of external economic cooperation. The cornerstone of our program is the development of the real economy. It is the real sector of the economy that must be the focus of all power today. The policy of total dissipation and privatization has clearly demonstrated its incompetence and powerlessness. That is why one of the necessary conditions is that we consider the return of the State to control the strategic industries. In the near future, we will bring to the attention of the Supreme Council a series of anti-crisis laws. We insist on the need for the adoption of the Nationalization Act and on its basis to consolidate state ownership, to create powerful state-owned companies, large-scale state-owned and collective-owned enterprises, to provide financial support for technological and innovative upgrades, both on the part of the budgets of all levels, and on the basis of the delaying of large corporations and taxes on the income of oligarchs. To this end, it is proposed, firstly, to remove the business from power and provide for the strict responsibility of public officials, institutions and organisations for the use of budgetary resources and for the execution of government programmes and orders. Secondly, to impose a higher tax on luxury cars, airplanes, screwdrivers and so forth, to impose taxes on luxury, jewelry, precious metals, antiques and so forth. Thirdly, at the level of the law, establish minimum costs for scientific development and the creation of new jobs in the public sector of the economy at not less than 10 percent of GDP. Fourthly, in order to protect the domestic producer, and to return to the internal market of Ukraine, to review the conditions for Ukraine's entry into the WTO and to return face to the Customs Union of the European Union. Set a credit rate for the real manufacturing sector, including agricultural enterprises at 3.5 percent per year, and in particular zero percent. Establish tax conditions for businesses and organizations that do trade in domestic goods and so forth. Without raising the domestic economy, we will not solve any painful social issues. This does not mean, however, that the State, in reference to crisis and financial hardship, must throw away our people at their own free hand. We are confident that many of these problems can be solved in the near future, including pension reform, pension reform, housing prices and tariffs, medicines, necessities and food. This is also a repeal of the reformist pension law and a review of the very ideology of pension legislation. This is also due to high inflation rates, the introduction of a quarterly index of subsistence minimums, pensions, wages, and social pay. It's also the maintenance of the operating system, the aid. So it's free of charge to provide services to defenseless groups of people and so forth. I'm addressing you again, dear colleagues. The company has developed this program and is ready to transfer it to the government to make a real change in the situation in Ukraine for the better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m0.u9	Thank you, too, Peter Mikolaiovich. Chechtov Mikhailo Vasilovich, faction of the Party of the Regions. Sergey Greenewecki will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m0.u10	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! The past days have been filled with important developments that have given new impetus to Ukraine's development. And it is not the courts of law that are being tried in political kitchens. Femida said her word. And we have no right to interfere with her authority. That is the principle of the rule of law. Parliament is not an appeal. Not the choir around the courts, but the concrete steps to improve our lives are expected from us. That is the work of the authorities. The dialogue initiated by our Head of State with Russian partners on gas price continues. The new opportunities to advance Ukraine's interests worldwide have opened up a public visit by President Viktor Yanuković to Cuba and Brazil. Economic and political contacts have been renewed with such a strong partner as Brazil, the eighth world economy. Particular attention is paid to a joint project in the space field that enhances Ukraine's capacity as countries with modern technologies. We expect considerable effect from the signing of an updated treaty establishing a free trade zone within the CIS. With the beginning of its work, new opportunities will be opened for the export of Ukrainian products to traditional markets. At the same time, the existing internal and foreign policies of Ukraine, multiplied by the pragmatism of power, do not allow for a single closure. Therefore, the next logical step towards opening up external markets for Ukraine was to move the negotiations on the establishment of a free trade zone with the European Union. Barrier trade with Europe will facilitate access to investment and technology for Ukrainian enterprises to modernize production. It is important that the parallel work of both free trade zones does not conflict with each other at all. At the site of unnecessary economic barriers, we propose to build bridges. In large accounts, Ukraine is given an excellent opportunity to become such a strategically important bridge between the east and the west. We are open to dialogue, principally not to place the cross on the results of the multi-year process and the European integration of Ukraine into the personal interests of the individual. We will never agree with the necessity imposed on us to violate the principle of the independence of the courts. And it is very good that political emotions begin to give way to common sense. The adoption of the European Parliament Resolution on Ukraine was encouraging. We welcomed the decision of European colleagues to continue negotiations with Ukraine and to conclude their signing of the Association Agreement. As a recognition of our European perspective, reference is made in the resolution to article 49 of the Treaty in the European Union, which reaffirms the openness of the EU to Ukraine. For our part, as representatives of the largest faction of the Supreme Council, we want to assure the Ukrainian authorities that they will maintain their commitment to democratic values and will not give up the legislative strategic objective of membership in the European Union. To achieve this goal, we have a very large number of work to do, including the reform of the legislative field. Large-scale tasks are here before the Supreme Council. The first reading adopted the country's 2012 budget, which continues to be prepared for second reading. The fundamental demands of the Party of the Regions on the draft budget are known as the provision of substantial funds to address the accumulated issues in the regions, the steady growth of human income and further economic growth. In order to build a legal society, it is important to adopt the Law on the Election of People's Deputies of Ukraine, which must establish a democratic and transparent mechanism for their election. The level of our tasks is in line with the high status of Parliament. It is very selfish to replace the future of the country with populism and demagogism. A prerequisite for the effective work of the Supreme Council in consolidating political forces. The faction of the Party of the Regions has repeatedly called upon its colleagues to do so. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m0.u11	Sergey Greenewecki, faction of the People's Party. The next one will be a representative. Who's "BOTH"? Ivan Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m0.u12	Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! We are in the active phase of the 2012 State Budget project. The analysis shows that he has some positive qualities, and we must not overlook the dangerous trends that exist in the home financial system today. One key is the increase in external debt. We all know how difficult it is to negotiate with the International Monetary Fund on another tranche of credit. To fulfill their obligations, the government is forced to pursue unpopular social reforms. There's a chance there's a debt pyramid when some loans are received to pay off the previous ones. At the same time, much less attention is paid to the search for internal reserves. The first such reserve is to control the efficient use of funds. 2012 is the year of the European Football Championship, which will be a testimonial for the Ukrainian authorities and for the state as a whole. Tens of billions of dollars of government funds have been set aside for the preparation of the Euro - 2012 Euro. Perhaps if it had not been for the championship, most of these objects would not have received the attention of the State. Obviously, this is the first experience of similar large-scale projects, the country's prestige is on the map, so it probably doesn't pay much attention to both the amount of allocated funds and the control over their use. However, there is no progress on this background in innovation. We have to think about life after the Euro. Well, let's say the government's spending on education in Ukraine is not more than 6 per cent of GDP versus 10 per cent of GDP provided for by law; science is not more than 0.45 per cent of GDP versus 1.7 per cent of the law. The funding of one scientist in Ukraine is three times less than in Russia, 18 times less than in Brazil, than in the United States. So why don't we take the example of a football championship to bring about a European breakthrough in education and science, a European breakthrough in housing and utilities, in an agro-industrial complex, in the field of road construction, but at the same time bet on new technologies? It's different. Today, there is a process of implementing the Regulations of the Law on the Promotion of Regional Development, particularly the conclusion of agreements between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the District Councils. I would like to remind you that according to the law, contracts that have been made provide for the responsibility of the parties for failing or improperly carrying out the measures envisaged by it, and it should be equally appropriate. It is also worth remembering that the responsibility and profession of the local authorities are being brought up because they are empowered to do so. Thirdly, we need to think about a substantial improvement in the business environment. This is about solving the strategic issue of modernizing the country set by the President. Modern - day domestic big business has a small innovation component that can ensure the country’s further development. In addition, the sectors where large capital is concentrated are virtually out of business in the internal market. The neglect of a domestic investor is reversed by losses. A growing fight against the shadow sector, the state must at the same time propose transparent rules for entrepreneurs, which requires further reforms: budget, financial, fiscal, and, most importantly, monetary and credit systems. Small and medium-sized business development can significantly revive the internal market and increase the tax base. I'm sure there are reserves. So I urge you, let's take the first step towards the future Euro now. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m0.u13	Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich, "BUT" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m0.u14	Respectable compatriots! Nearly three months have passed since Julia Timoshenko was unjustifiably thrown away for playing with a premeditated charge. Then it was thought that everything would pass away, and it would come down from the hands, and the press would shake up a little bit, and the opposition would stir up, and Europe would build up, and so quietly everything would quiet down. But it wasn't what it was supposed to be. Julia Timoshenko in prison became more dangerous to you than she was when she was on the loose. On whose side is popular compassion now? You wanted to have a burning desert around Julia, and you got a minefield where you didn't step on it. Did the world community explode by mass indignation? Did the European Parliament make a clear statement? Have they not made their stand clear to the United States? So far, it's all by the ear, and it's all in vain. It's a long way to go, but then it's going to be really hard to turn back. Yes, your business today mostly trades with the East. But he lives, learns, and keeps huge capitals in the West. You don't mind? And at home in Ukraine, the situation is not simple either. The people have already come to understand what stability is in the social cemetery, especially after losing the chief defender of their interests, and the half-defendants, forgive, do not believe. You've forgotten that for six months you blocked the rostrum, demanding double wages, pensions, scholarships. Well, where are they? And people didn't forget. First thing we're going to do. Stop showing weakness and helplessness. The new, old criminal cases against Timoshenko, which are good for naphthalene, are an obvious weakness, not necessary. Show strength, power, and wisdom. Release immediately from the prison of all political prisoners, and let the people in the elections give an assessment to all. What's more, people are already asking themselves, "Why did they put Julia in jail?"and no one responds to the fact that the wildflowers bloom again racquets, raids, robberies, passions, masks-shows and so forth. The other one. Call off your feudal draft of the Electoral Law immediately. It's to think, to write medieval standards, not just to preserve, but to monopolize the power of one political structure. Surprisingly, don't make it out of the Ukraine of Somalia! Today, the law in force, which Europe has approved in its own time, is the most acceptable to our reality. Yes, it requires improvement. We need as many lists as possible for voters at the local level, and we support such approaches. This is much better and more transparent than the openly bought majority mandates. Are you ready for this? By the way, I would like to remind you that Ukraine is expected by the Elections Act, which has been done together with the opposition. Otherwise, elections can be declared illegal, resulting in isolation. What this can lead to is that we do not need to go far. And the third. Don't exasperate people. The final adoption of the 2012 budget will soon take place. It will either have real social protection for Chernobyl, for Afghans, for war children, for disabled people, for other vulnerable categories, or it will not. We firmly support the first and firmly oppose the second. The question is, where do you get the money so you don't get caught up in the excess population? We remind you, cancel the disgraceful deal with Cyprus, close this offshore corruption bench, and leave nearly 250 billion dollars in your home country. And if you don't want to leave, if you're afraid of something, at least pay your taxes. 40 billion is also enough money to close the gaps in the Pension Fund to meet the minimum needs of all socially vulnerable groups. Do this for the people, you can go to elections with no fear of a proportional law, even with open lists. Glory to Ukraine! July is free!
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m0.u15	Dear National Deputies! Factions finished speaking. With regard to suggestions, recommendations, and requirements made in the presentation of the national deputies, the secretariat is asked to prepare appropriate addresses and assignments. Dear National Deputies! Let us turn to the issues scheduled for Tuesday, November 1. I suggest you, your honor, support the idea that at 12 o'clock we don't announce a break, but work, because we did consultations from 10 o'clock to 11 o'clock. My dear colleagues, I propose that we consider the proposals of the people's deputies, the committees and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine for the inclusion in the agenda of a daily series of bills. I am voting on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act amending certain legislative acts to simplify the process of disposing of state and municipal property. [[Registration number 9104]] Please vote. [[11:46:31]] For 226 Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal to include the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. [[on the patronage service]] [[9224]] Please vote. [[11:47:02]] For 257 Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the draft Act amending articles 166 to 10 of the Code of Administrative Offences on the Strengthening of Responsibility of Officials of State Authorities and Local Self-Government Authorities for Violations of Law on the Issue of Permitted Documents. [[9182]] Please vote. [[11:47:43]] For 262 Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the Draft Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislative acts on the establishment of the principle of the conduct of business by private law entities without the application of seals. [[9172]] Please vote. [[11:48:19]] For 230 Decision taken. On the inclusion in the agenda of the Development Act and State support for small and medium-sized enterprises in Ukraine. [[9202, 9202-1]] Please vote. [[11:48:52]] For 264 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we must now consider the draft Act amending article 201 of the Ukrainian Tax Code. [[on tax overheads]] [[Registration number 9173]] At the same time, there is a letter from the Committee on Finance and Banking, Tax and Customs Policy. "A day-long meeting of the Supreme Council is scheduled for 1 November 2011 to consider the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Law. [[Registration number 9173]] The provisions of the bill are included in the Ukrainian Supreme Council Act of 20.10.2011 amending the Tax Code for some. and some other Ukrainian legislation on a simplified reporting and accounting system. In view of the above, please remove it from consideration. ” Therefore, my honourable colleagues, I will put to the vote a motion for a committee to withdraw from the draft Act amending article 201 of the Code of Taxation of Ukraine. [[on tax overheads]] Registration number 9173. Please vote. [[11:50:29]] For 262 Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2011. [[on the judiciary and other matters]] [[9296]] Please vote. [[11:51:01]] For 261 Decision taken. I would like to vote on the proposal to include in the agenda of the Draft Law on Amendments to the Final and Transitional Provisions of the Code of Budgets for Ukraine to ensure the proper social protection of employees of ombudsmen and institutions. Registration number 9108. Please vote. [[11:51:39]] Z-85 The decision is not taken. I would like to vote on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the Draft Act on Amendments to the Criminal and Procedural Codes of Ukraine, 9190. [[on the right of consumers to product safety]] Please vote. [[11:52:12]] For-27 The decision is not taken. Draft Law on Amendments to Certain Legislations of Ukraine on Strengthening Responsibility for the Management of Drunken Vehicles, Registration No. 9204. [[11:52:43]] For 263 Decision taken. Draft Law on State Customs. [[9288]] Please vote. [[11:53:08]] For 213 The decision is not taken. We'll be right back. Dear colleagues, please consider the matter. I would like to vote on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Order amending the Supreme Council of Ukraine Ordinance on Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations "Contemporary state and current tasks to overcome the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster." [[9271]] [[11:53:53]] For 262 Decision taken. Draft Decision on accounting in the preparation of the draft Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine 2012 is the amount of money required to make compensatory payments to the heirs of the deceased investors in accordance with the Ukrainian Act on State Guarantees for Restoration of Ukrainian Citizens' Savings. [[9118]] [[11:54:35]] For-52 The decision is not taken. Draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine. [[on the execution of energy-potential work]] [[Registration number 9326]] Please vote. [[11:55:03]] For 212 The decision is not taken. Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code to stimulate investment in the domestic economy. [[9341]] Please vote. [[11:55:31]] For 227 Decision taken. Draft Law amending the Code of Nadra. [[on the use of total property rentals and concessionaires]] [[Registration number 9292]] Please vote. [[11:56:03]] For 225 The decision is not taken. Draft Act amending article 306 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine. [[on the alignment of the clauses]] [[9351]] [[11:56:32]] For 255 Decision taken. The draft Law on Measures aimed at ensuring the continued operation of the defence and industrial complex. [[9346]] Please vote. [[11:57:00]] For 252 Decision taken. Draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on declaration of conformity. [[9355]] Please vote. [[11:57:30.]] For 232 Decision taken. I'll be right there. What are you talking about? Draft Law on Amendments to the Tax Code of Ukraine on the Review of Fees of Certain Taxes and Congregations. [[9356]] Please vote. [[11:58:01]] For 226 Decision taken. Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Contracts for Distribution of Produce. [[on the improvement of the mechanism for the conclusion of distribution agreements]] [[9357]] Please vote. [[11:58:32]] For 230 Decision taken. And the draft Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Tax Code. [[on certain matters relating to the payment of taxes under the terms of the distribution agreement]] [[Registration number 9358]] [[11:59:03]] For 228 Decision taken. And the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[on improving the mechanism for making use of noodles]] [[Registration number 9360]] Please vote. [[11:59:34]] For 210 The decision is not taken. Thus, honourable colleagues, part of the bill, we have included in the agenda of the day session. Now, one minute. I ask the committees to look again at these bills so that we can bring them up to speed at this plenary week. Please, one at a time. Mikola Kravchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m0.u16	Cowchenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, Bill 9355, which had just been voted on as a friend, had already been considered in the Chamber on 18 October. He was voted "yes" to 0. This is the removal of the manufacturer's declaration of conformity. We were with you when we made that decision, that's all. Why? Because you understand that our manufacturer is under attack and that Ukraine as a whole is under attack. We voted right then. To date, the bill was only registered on 28 October and is now on the agenda. Although I submitted a bill two months ago requiring consideration of the question of how to join the WTO, it is still not on the agenda. Vladimir Mikhailovich, this one.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m0.u17	Microphone, please. Finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m0.u18	You have to understand, Vladimir Mihajlovich, that if we go this way to get these big financial bills out of the way, this is a big financial document for which big people are getting money.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m0.u19	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m0.u20	We must therefore stop this practice.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m0.u21	Thank you. Please, Mikhailo Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m0.u22	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! I ask you to return to Law 9326. There has been some voter failure, and please return to 9326. This is a bill by Kozuba, a draft law amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts. [[on the execution of energy-potential work]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m0.u23	Dear colleagues! Regarding the speech of our colleague, the national MP Mikoli Kravchenka. I submit to the Supreme Council those bills that were agreed upon on the Conciliation Council. But as for your bill, I'm asking you to pass on a number that's been registered for two months, and I'm asking the Secretariat to find out why he hasn't been proposed yet? In particular, which committee is taking care of this bill? Now, one minute. Dear colleagues! 9326. 9360. Just a minute. I'm voting a proposal, one minute, to return to the draft law. [[Registration number 9326]] I'm talking about a return to the proposal for inclusion in the agenda. Please vote. [[12:03:32]] For 223 The decision is not taken. I now put to the vote the proposal to return to the consideration of the inclusion in the agenda of draft law 9360. Please vote. [[12:04:02]] For 210 The decision is not taken. Thank you. Dear National Deputies! [[The voice from the hall. (]] [[Unheard]] )
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m0.u24	I asked the Secretariat to make all the suggestions on this matter. I bet. Dear colleagues, the draft Law amending some Ukrainian legislation on standardization and compulsory certification is being considered. I'm betting on your motion to consider the issue of a reduced procedure, especially that it's a re-reading of the first reading. Natalia Yuriovno! [[12:04:52]] For 217 Decision taken. The rapporteur is Head of the Committee on Industrial Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship, Natalia Kraljevska, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m0.u25	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! I propose to your attention a draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on standardization and compulsory certification. The purpose of the bill is to remove barriers to economic activity and bring the technical regulation system of Ukraine into line with international practice. [[No. 7064]] Barriers that today create unjustified obstacles to business and business development and make Ukrainian goods uncompetitive. The fact is that our technical regulation system requires the certification of a large number of goods: 34 product groups and over 400 product names. In addition, the system requires that almost all goods comply with regulations, standards or technical conditions. How difficult it is for us to market a new product and how difficult it is to introduce new technologies, use of modern materials and innovation. This has become difficult, expensive, and almost impossible. But that's not all. A complex cost-effective Ukrainian technical regulation system is imposed on a rigid public oversight system. And such a cute couple kills the competition of goods today, reduces the range of products and leads to unjustifiably high prices. And today we see Ukraine swallowing up imports. Today, more imports are being sold on the domestic market, and it is already agricultural products, food products, that are being produced in Ukraine. Therefore, our task today is to remove the barriers that are set for the national manufacturer and to make the product equal, competitive. Because it is unacceptable that we are 152nd in the business ratings and 89th in the global competitiveness rating.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m0.u26	Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m0.u27	The Committee on Industrial, Regulatory Policy and Enterprise proposes that the bill be adopted as a basis and supported on first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m0.u28	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, let's do it this way. Dear colleagues, the committee is proposing to adopt the bill as a basis. Let's maybe, if there's no objection, let's vote, let's take it as a basis, let's keep the committee working seriously. [[B in m in s a l in]] Wait. In this regard, I would like to express my thoughts, and before that, I would like to sign up for the talk. Please sign in. Names of the national deputies. Katerina Vaszczuk faction of the People's Party. Then Vladimir Moses. What's the matter with
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m0.u29	Dear colleagues, the bill that is being proposed seems to have been working. When you read it carefully, nothing has changed, and in fact no revision of the bill has been passed. I want everyone to pay attention, under the protection of domestic producers, we want to cancel any standardization. For example, I care what our children eat. Standardization will be reversed not only for food products, but also for children’s milk. That we now have the kind of product from which we have 20 billion of the people's money for medicine. We already have a population cost for medicine and food: it's ecology, it's food, it's water. We want to break any standards. We have a water institute in Ukraine -- the only one in the territory of the former CIS. We do not have the water standards that our population drinks. Today, we want to vote in favour of the standards that protect the health of our people. I understand that you don't have to certify a Mercedes-type car or you don't need some incredibly good phone stamps, something else, but food, baby food, clothes, toys.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m0.u30	Complete your opinion, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m0.u31	..can't be certified. I turn to everyone’s conscience.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m0.u32	Thank you. Roman Tchac. The right to speak is given by a colleague of Moses. Then there'll be Taras Cranville.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m0.u33	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! I am very sorry, but again, for the third time, the Supreme Council, the highest legislative body in Ukraine, want to cheat. I want to remind you that the same bill under number 1363 and 7064 has already been tabled twice in Parliament, and we have failed it twice. I guess who's doing it. Because last week, remember, there was a government bill on this very subject. Thank God that was when the Supreme Council found power, political courage and zeroed in. Today they want to turn Ukraine into a world mess. We don't have any standards that match, really, international standards. And today, Ukraine seems to have already joined the WTO, it is envisaged that the requirements of State standards be abolished as normative documents. Today, even those technical, regulatory standards that are somewhere else are not developed, but this is still a requirement for manufacturers to use at least some requirements. Today, this bill, where God gives, as we will even accept it in the first reading, is being annulled altogether. I mean, whatever you want and anywhere you can make not only quality products, but products that lead to the threat of human life in general. So I call on you all, regardless of political preferences, we have again the same as last time to give zero votes for this bill. So once again, I urge you not to vote in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m0.u34	Taras Blackwall, group "Reforms for the Future!"..
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m0.u35	Dear fellow national MPs! Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Our MPs at a faction meeting yesterday carefully considered the bill, and we came to a clear conclusion that it is totally unacceptable and unacceptable to vote in favour of the bill. We have already rejected twice, as others have said, the same standards. The so - called preprocessing process has been carried out. In the work we looked at and believed: nothing changed except that a few more points had been added, a few bills that had the same certification taken away. I want to remind you that we have a constitutional duty of the State to ensure the safety of Ukrainian citizens with regard to the products they consume. As far as the protection of our manufacturers is concerned, in particular, I would like to point out that this law, among other things, exempts food from certification, which imports into Ukraine from abroad. So the motives here are completely different: they predict that Ukraine will eventually be transformed into a dump of inconceivable, questionable products. We've already talked about this once before, which is a certain requirement of the WTO, but in this case this bill goes beyond those requirements. The technical parameters are to be defined, and according to these parameters and regulations products are to fit them. Prior to the entry into force of those standards, certification must be in force, which is marked, in particular, in the Final Positions of the Certification Act. So our parliamentary group has decided not to vote in favour of this bill and calls upon all members of the Supreme Council to demonstrate once again that our position is in line with the Constitution: the protection of Ukrainian citizens' right to safe production and the proper exercise of these functions by the State. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m0.u36	Thank you, too. Sergei Gordienko, faction of the Company. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m0.u37	Sergei Gordijenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company, Poltavščina. It is quite obvious that the Lobby Bill is turning Ukraine into a wastebasket. But I ask you to pass on the word to Mikola Kravchenk, who will explain this position in detail.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m0.u38	Mikola Kravchenko, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m0.u39	I won't discuss the bill. I'll say one thing, where the legs grow. A European business association is addressed to Deputy Prime Minister Tigypto, who writes: “The need to cancel the mandatory certification of food products by the authorities of the State consumer is provided by the obligations of Ukraine when entering the World Trade Organization.” I will tell you further that the District Administrative Court has opposed this for the appointment of the Deputy Attorney-General, who should have declared the above-mentioned orders unlawful by the Cabinet of Ministers. In this regard, I would like to say that we, after all, in Europe, have declared that we are a country and need to speak to us in a parity. So what are we doing on the products, on the food of the population, why are we losing our face?Oh, my God! Tihypco, respectively, instructs the State Party to develop new conditions, legislation and thus attempts to revoke certification by cancelling it. Dear colleagues, in the end, if we don't realize that we need to talk to us in this way, if we don't understand that we can't in any way turn the country of Ukraine and its population into wastes, we will eventually lose it. This is the most serious question, which is the question. by which we are judged in the world.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m0.u40	Yes, please, one minute, Carmazin, Dry. And you'll all get an answer from Natalia Royal.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m0.u41	Yuri Carmazin. Dear people's deputies, I will be without emotion. Although there is much to be said under this law. The development of the project is only an increase in the number of laws that have repealed the status of standardization, product certification. That was, unfortunately, a work in progress. What's more, we've already come to the point where we're canceling it and making changes even to the Ukrainian Pesticides and Agrochemicals Act. Think, please, about the security of every citizen of Ukraine, the general existence of this state, of this land. Think about it. We're planning to run Euro-2012, and in the Tourism Act, we're removing everything that's going on in the field of tourism. The introduction of such a law, if God forbid, would happen without the prior development of technical regulations, and they were designed to be zero, because nothing was funded, it was a disaster. I agree with both Vaszczuk and Kravchenko and Cravchenko, and with Crnowol, and with all the deputies who spoke out of this.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m0.u42	Discuss all? Sorry, sorry, sorry. There is no closing word. A faction that didn't act. The faction that didn't act, who insists? There aren't any? The dry one spoke. Oh, no? Oh, excuse me, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m0.u43	Give me a second. Take Carmazin's picture, come on. Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you that in this session room very recently, with the help of Yuri Carmazin, we have tried to adopt the Compulsory Law – think! – certification of the production of aircraft and rocket engines. So it happened that sewing machines -- you have to have a license and have a certificate, and there are no aircraft engines. And that's why the Ukrainian Security Service recently submitted an interesting document to us: in Crimea, the agricultural company has a certified production of goats, sheep, the production and repair of aviation and rocket engines. [[so-called "Agricultural Company", registered in Sevastopol]] Well, we're getting ridiculous! I understand that you have to record some things that hinder the development of entrepreneurship that put us in unequal conditions, but I want to remind you that the World Trade Organization has nothing to do with this bill. And I propose not to vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m0.u44	Yes, thank you. Yaroslave, well, maybe Motor City is growing goats and so on and so forth. So here. Just cows, huh? Yes, please, Queen, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m0.u45	There has been a lot of talk about Ukraine being a garbage disposal under this law. Thus, who is not yet aware, this is what Ukraine has done today, when 80 per cent of the products that are sold are counterfeits, it is smuggling, it is totally inconsistent with no standards and no guests. But today, there is a division of "on both their own and their own": import products today do not require either certificates or guest or standards. The import product closed down the entire Ukrainian market. But at the same time, the Ukrainian manufacturer is destroyed by checks, checks, checks and everything that can be imagined. So I propose that we create a level playing field at least a little bit of preference for our national producer, who has been destroyed for two years now, seek and want nothing to be done in Ukraine at all. And our constitutional duty, first of all, is to create conditions under which people will be satisfied in the country, not at which prices will be subject to your control and corruption.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m0.u46	Question completed. I am voting on the proposal to adopt as a basis in the first reading of the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on standardization and mandatory certification. [[Registration number 7064]] I'd like to make a statement. [[12:21:48]] For 168 Honorable fellow believers, perhaps again, should be sent back to the first reading? I'm voting on a motion to re-read. Identify yourself. [[12:22:20]] For-170. Not supported. The bill was rejected. Carmazine, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m0.u47	Thank you. Yuri Carmazin, my last name has been removed here. This included aircraft or rocket engines. Indeed, everything must be in harmony with standards, international standards. And that's probably why our planes are successful, and our Sicily Motor. I would just like to draw the attention of those who deny the name of Karmazin to one statement made just three days ago by the Deputy Prime Minister of the current government. This is about Deputy Prime Minister Kolesnikov, who said that there are 100 illegal fuel factories in Ukraine that produce non-standard fuels, implement and thus do not pay excise duties and so on. I wanted the majority before waving their hands, and now this is what the majority representative showed us by upholding anti-national laws, to answer that question as well.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m0.u48	Yes, dear colleagues, we are listening to a question -- the draft Act amending some Ukrainian laws on privatization. [[Registration number 8723]] Reported by Paulenko Vladimir Petrovich, Deputy Minister for Economic Development and Trade. Please. Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m0.u49	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! You are considering a draft Ukrainian law amending some Ukrainian laws on privatization. The bill provides for a review of the current privatisation legislation, which should ensure a reduction in the number of property rights that are not subject to privatization. The bill proposes a review of the criteria for the incorporation of property rights into those that are of national importance and are not subject to privatization. In particular, making changes to part two of article 5 of the Privatization Act in part of the removal of restrictions on the privatization of aviation industries, the State Space Agency, and the property complexes of railway enterprises, some of the port infrastructures. The proposed measures will allow the public sector to be optimized, to contribute to investment in the real economy, to the introduction of new technologies, to the creation of additional jobs, to the restoration of the business of the liquor industry, which will significantly improve the socio-economic situation and reduce social tensions in the companies' collectives. State-owned enterprises are constantly confronted with the problems of borrowing credit resources, by tendering procedures that place them in unequal conditions with private-sector enterprises. These changes will enable enterprises that are excluded from the list to improve their financial and economic situation significantly. On the basis of updated criteria, it is proposed that the list of property rights that are not subject to privatization be confirmed. To date, the Ukrainian Act on the List of Property Rights that Are Not Privatized has approved a list of objects that are not subject to privatization and a list of public property objects that may be corporateized, including 1,538 objects. [[Appendix 2]] The project is intended to exclude 676 objects from the listed list, such as those reorganized by joining enterprises that are proposed to be included in the census, as well as those transferred to the management of national and sectoral academics, from the public domain. The bill introduces a new census structure, namely state-owned enterprises and the sole assets of state-owned enterprises, which were included in Appendix No. 1 and Appendix No. 2 to the current law and have preserved the general public, proposes to include 1515 sites in the list of property rights that are not subject to privatization. [[List No.1]] Shareholders who have been included in additions to the law, as well as retained national importance, are proposed to include in the list of shareholders whose state shares are not subject to privatization, Appendix No 2 is 43 objects. In addition, 700 new enterprises are included in the list, whose activities fall under the criteria of article 5 of the Ukrainian Act on Privatisation of State Property. Among them are Ukrainian State Forest Resources Agency, 336; Ukrainian State Water Agency, 158. Thus, the entire draft Ukrainian law amending certain Ukrainian laws on privatization is proposed to be included in the list of objects of law by state. Property that is not subject to privatization of 1,557 objects Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m0.u50	Thank you, Volodymyr Petrovich. Sign up for questions. Yes, please, five minutes. Glacier Vladimir, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m0.u51	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Honorable Volodymyr Petrovich must first say that she has privatized the elderly. Privatization is a big affair that has robbed people of the national good. Now you are saying that even now they will be included in the list of privatizations for forestry, water agriculture. You're talking about what's profitable. Is there a country in the world in principle that profitable utilities or state enterprises view privatization? Liquorics and even strategically important? What do you want the government to do with this privatization? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m0.u52	Dear National Deputies! I would like to tell you that forest and water - management objects are included in the list of objects that are not subject to privatization. And also with regard to the list of liqueur - combustibles, these are some of the objects that have been bankrupted in the bankruptcy phase. And unfortunately, their financial and economic situation needs a substantial improvement. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m0.u53	Asshole, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m0.u54	Thank you. Deputy Gennady Zadirko, Mikolayevščina, People's Authority Party. In fact, it seems to me that it would be very good if it were in government and in the foundation of a sustainable understanding, why do we need privatization in general? Honestly, like Santa, I don't understand why we privatized the Mikolai Agricultural Plant in our time. In a year, the owner, the new owner, was privatized. Prices in international markets soared that there was no point in this privatization. And the same logic is preserved in the same bill that you're giving us today. Because there's no public interest at all, no public interest in this bill at all. To be honest, for example, I am not prepared to vote for state property to be distributed among the oligarchs. Moreover, I am concerned about the situation of future privatization.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m0.u55	Please, Vladimir Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m0.u56	Dear National Deputies! I would like to inform you that privatization in Ukraine is being done according to legislation, according to the lists you accept in this session room. And the government, for example, when it comes to aviation companies, today they face a fundamental problem. For example, if you engage, if you get a loan, you have to first have a tender to get the banks involved, then you have to take part in the tender procedures. In fact, the procedure for participation and competition with private sector enterprises is quite burdensome with regard to the private and public sectors, and the procedure for tendering procedures is constantly changing. You have recently adopted amendments to the Act on Conducting Tender Procedures.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m0.u57	Gordine, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m0.u58	Sergei Gordijenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company, Poltavščina. Dear reporter! I understand how difficult it is for you to answer the direct questions of the national MPs who know because they meet with people that this so-called privatization is the biggest crime in the eyes of the Ukrainian people. Give the right answer today: Were they bankrupt, or were they forced to go bankrupt? I give you an example of the fate of Poltavanaftogasgeology, one of the largest oil and gas companies in Ukraine and the former Soviet Union. The government's actions are aligned to zero. State-owned and seized licences for oil and gas companies. The state, it turns out, can be inefficiently owned and privately effective. Who are you hanging this noodle from your ears? What do you say about bankruptcy and forced bankruptcy?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m0.u59	Dear National Deputies! Bankruptcy is decided by a court of law. Not the government's decision, but in fact the administration of all things agrees with the court's sanction plan. All of this is done according to current legislation.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m0.u60	Thank you. The questions were answered. Please look at the chart: 0.0.0.0. Reported by the head of the Economic Policy Committee, Bondar Alexander Mikolayovich. Please, five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m0.u61	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! The Committee on Economic Policy at its meeting on 5 July 2011 considered a draft of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Privatisation Laws by the Cabinet of Ministers and decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine an approved bill on the basis. [[Registration number 8723]] I would like to highlight first the positive aspects of the bill tabled by the government. In general, the project is aimed at substantially reducing the number of property rights objects that are not privatized by making changes to article 5 of the Ukrainian Law on Privatisation of State Property, which sets out the sectors of the national economy that cannot be privatized, and clarifying the list of property rights that are not subject to privatization as set out in the new edition. What's the matter? For many years there have been contradictions between existing lists of objects banned from privatization, so-called Article 5 of the Ukrainian Privatisation Act, which defined the field. The government is making a positive attempt to unify these prohibitions so that there is no contradiction between the Ukrainian Privatisation Act and the list of objects banned from privatization. From an object. 676 objects are removed – these are enterprises that have been reorganized, transferred to the Academy of Sciences or to municipal property – 257, enterprises that have lost signs of state-of-the-art value – 309, destroyed enterprises – 110, only 676 objects. At the same time, 695 objects are banned from privatization, and the government's representative stressed this — mostly water companies, forestry. Now, with regard to another positive feature of the two new listings, it is proposed that the list of objects that are completely banned from privatization, consisting of a thousand 514 objects, and the listed shareholders, be included in the list of shareholders whose government shares are not subject to privatization, only 43 objects. Now that's a warning in this list. The project provides for exceptions to the list of 309 enterprises that have lost their national significance and can be considered potential privatization sites in the future. In particular, I pay attention to these objects: the company, the construction office "Arsenal", the Kharkiv Electromechanical Plant, the Aviation Science and Technology complex Antonova, the production company "Commonar", the Open Association "Bilshick", the "Ukrainian Danube steam plant", the "Hymtekstilmash", the Cerkas Industrial Plant; the companies of the liquor industry, the Odessa horse factory, the Odessa wine factory, the Ishmaiel wine factory; the coal industry, including the state-owned enterprises "Sverdlovscantracit", the "Zitomirtorf", the Korstishev plant "Remashtorf". [[In particular Vinicki, Melitopolski, Odessa liquor plant]] The project reduces restrictions on the privatization of aviation, space, seafaring, metallurgical, transport complexes, certain port infrastructures, property complexes, solar industry enterprises, except for the state-owned Artem-sil company, individual wine production complexes, liquor-fired products, and public certification facilities. That is, no government has ever taken such radical steps in the history of independence. And it's surprising that this is not done in a very economical period of time. You know that the world crisis is going on, in fact, foreign investment in Ukraine is not expected, and they're unlikely to be, and all the last competitions that have taken place, privatization has been with one buyer, that is, no competition is currently anticipated theoretically and practically. That is why this is a very responsible step for Parliament to approve this list. But at the same time, Parliament will be able to make changes, change to second reading, and thus influence this list. He'll get it theoretically. So I want to say that the committee's decision is to support it, but I would suggest that every deputy look very carefully at this list and think before making their decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m0.u62	Thank you. Let's sign up for questions. Until the recording, Alexander Mikolaiovich, that is, this list is final. Anything else that's not listed is privatized.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m0.u63	Yeah. This list is confirmed and everything that is not included in this list is entitled to be privatized by the government at any time. The only thing I want to say is that before the second reading, MPs have the opportunity to make changes.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m0.u64	Right. They do. Hare Ivan, please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m0.u65	Mr. Alexander, I am most interested, for example, in the production of vodka products there, although I am very interested because it is possible to build this production, that by the end of the day, the Ukrainian nation will be destroyed by these semi-substantial vodkas. I'm interested in high-tech companies like aviation. In particular, Anton's merger. Now, you think this is really some kind of design for the final destruction of that complex of high-tech enterprises that are actually still holding the scientific opinion that other competitive high-tech industries are still holding. So what did you estimate in the committee from that position? We have very few such high - tech productions left today, and they want to be destroyed today.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m0.u66	I want to support the government's opinion that these companies urgently need investment. And then you have to bring it in. enter private equity. But the question arises how these objects will be sold. The tradition of the last two years does not foresee any competition or involvement of foreign investment, even Russian investment. And that's where the investment will come from if all the competitions are held with the same buyer? And I made that point in my speech. But in general, these industries certainly need investment, but to do that, you have to do exactly the wrong way that the government is now doing in terms of investing.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m0.u67	Gordien Sergey.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m0.u68	Sergei Gordijenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company, Poltavščina. Dear Alexander Mikolaiovich, well, of course, that large-scale privatization broke the back of Ukraine's economy, and the economy of Ukraine from the formerly developed, wealthy, and as the Soviet government went and collapsed, they said that the Soviet Ukraine was numbered — in the ten, twenty-best developed world and European countries themselves. Today I know that the decision of the NPBO, and this was in the President's letter of the past, which we have less already, or 20 or less percent of enterprises in state property that are already below the national security and defence of Ukraine. Do you support this thesis or not? And is it true that this is a threat to Ukraine’s national security and defence?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m0.u69	Well, I'm not backing the thesis, I'm definitely arguing about the number of objects that are privatized. If you count the number, it corresponds to your number, but no one has ever counted it like that, including the holding fund. We've always counted the core funds. So at the cost of the core funds, our privatisation has not yet crossed the 50 percent barrier. And we have that to privatize yet. And I can't see any catastrophe. Therefore, it is necessary to privatize, sell, and privatize. All I'm talking about is how to do it and how to sell it. That's the main problem with real power. If the authorities fail to achieve that the objects are sold in competition, if there are several buyers, all investment directions will be corrected. That's what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m0.u70	Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m0.u71	Thank you, Yuri Carmazin. Dear Alexander Mikolaiovich, I have reviewed all the lists. To be honest, I'm far away from you and I don't share with you the optimism that you're going to make any suggestions, they're going to be taken into account. Maybe you'll make suggestions, only they won't be counted. I have a question for you as to the head of the committee a little differently. We are now considering, including the draft State Budget Act of Ukraine, well, it is now under consideration in Parliament. At the same time, article 4 of the Law on Privatization of State Property stipulates that the State Privatization Programme is developed by the Fund and approved by Parliament once every three years. There is no such program. We're with you now, well, it's been almost over for 10 years now, and you and I are now making a serious decision, which is probably going to go into the execution of that program, including the filling of the budget. I share your opinion that you're saying that in a crisis situation right now, you probably shouldn't, you shouldn't do that.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m0.u72	The privatization programme situation is as follows. The Holding Foundation prepared its version of the government’s program, submitted it to the government. Regrettably, the government has not yet confirmed it, that is, there are some contradictions that prevent it from being brought into the hall. Personally, as a national deputy, the head of the Committee on Privatization of Economic Policy prepared its version of the State Privatization Programme. As soon as the government gives it to me, I'll give it as an alternative. The program is needed because the version of the program currently being privatized was approved in 2000 when I was the head of the holding fund. So the whole question here depends on.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m0.u73	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m0.u74	Well, they're connected. It is best that both the Maintenance Fund and the Program Act and this list be passed together. But the government can see how to do this, it's his prerogative.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m0.u75	Yes, thank you. Have a seat, please. A statement from the Committee on Industrial Policy, chairman of the committee, three minutes. Please, Queen.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m0.u76	Dear colleagues! I would like to inform you of the opinion of the Committee on Industrial Policy, Regulatory Policy and Enterprise on a bill amending some Ukrainian Privatization Act submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers. In short, the drafters of the bill suggest that we draw up a list of public enterprises that are subject to privatization and are not subject to privatization. I mean, they want to put the cart in front of the horse again today. How can such a list be drawn up if the State has not yet developed a holistic strategy for the development of economic sectors, when a state privatization programme has not been developed, which should be approved once every three years under the Act on Privatization of State Property, when the State Property Fund Act has not yet been passed? Take this correctly: our committee for the creation of investment conditions, but in this law that we are considering, we are not talking about any investment conditions. We remember everything when, after the first phase of privatization, the country split into poor and rich, when we have 22 billion people and 45 million poor people in the country. And what is proposed in this law? There's a lot of people here talking about certification, we need certification or we don't need certification. Thus, in this law certification is offered to privatize, comrades! And then after that, we're going to have the Pupkin Pupkin Pupkin Pupkin Pupkin Pupkin Pupkin Pupkin Pupkin. And after that, we're talking about some kind of economic strategy when the metropolises are asked to privatize? That's wonderful! Let's get people to make tickets at such a cost that they walk on foot, and they don't fit on the subway. This bill does not propose an economic policy programme, not an incentive for the economy, but a project that sells our economy. And then you have to sell the gas pipe, sell the land and all the gold stocks, and then you can name Ukraine and put the cross in all our perspectives. We are therefore categorically opposed to such a bill, we are categorically opposed to privatization under these conditions of the aviation industry because, according to the budget, 600 million bracelets are allocated to the airline industry, tax benefits are granted under the Tax Code and the airline industry is willing to privatize under the bill. This is interesting: in one pocket of 600 million, all tax advantages and seven other airlines. Let us think and really develop a strategy for the development of Ukraine's economy, and then sell and waste our economy. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m0.u77	Yes, thank you. Let's log in from factions. Sit down, Natalia Yuriovno. Yes, please sign in with the deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m0.u78	Dear colleagues! I want to prove my position.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m0.u79	Mikolo Volodymyrovich, take your time, take your time. Yes, they did, so 15 plus 9 - 25 minutes for discussion. Please, Kirilenko passes the word to Mikola Volodymyrovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m0.u80	Dear colleagues, I'd like to prove the position of the "BOUT" faction, "The Fatherland." We're concerned that we don't know what happened before the preliminary consideration of the bill and the present one. Remember, our faction required a clear explanation from the government of the project’s version and privatization programs involving airline companies, liquor companies, railway companies, and polygraph companies. We were told that the government would consult with experts, with experts, and explain the change in position. Instead, we are receiving a privatization programme today where, according to the comments made by experts and representatives of the opposition, there is no change. There may have been some kind of venture or venture, but we do not see any strategic changes. I've already talked about rail transport. Today, go on how the railway works, and find out that one of my friends says that you doubted that the party of regions is not chasing, so go and check that the train assembly is going with respect. You come in here and you say we want some kind of bathroom tickets. They say you can't buy, you can't buy, you can't buy, you can't buy, you can't buy, because we're putting a wagon after a car, and then we're selling tickets that you don't want, but a car after a car. So already the Crucifixion is already, if it's still privatizing the company, I can imagine that soon it's going to be a bonus, only the wimps on trains will be driving in privatized railways at such prices. Indeed, the monopoly on spirit factories and wine factories has been lifted. Everyone's privatized here, those left behind with winemaking, champagne wines, alcohol factories all go into private hands. It's about polygraphs. I've been paying attention to this, and I'm paying attention again. We don't understand what Kyiv Truth is and all printing companies will be privatized? I have a question: does the local self-government of the areas agree that it will be privatized to privatization without agreement with the local community, without agreement with the city council? Because the Ministry of Education and the State Department thinks that their people need to take away the best polygraph companies. Well, we don't have enough local self-government and governors at all to say, "Dude, you don't have to privatize in Kirovograd, you don't have to privatize in Lugansk, you don't have to privatize in Zakarpatta." These were the best publishing complexes of all time. Now the question is, who are they privatizing to? At what price are they privatized? In the district council, someone's going to ask how they're going to privatize? We have an impression, colleagues, and this is reinforced by this brochure, which I have shown today with the National Deputy Vasil Kravchuk, "The Earth Reform in Ukraine," with a speech by the President, the APC Minister, that the land should be sold since 1 January 2012, because the law has not yet been reviewed, at a cost of $300. They promised a thousand and a half, then 800, now they're going to sell $300. It seems like the 2012 mission is to sell Ukraine. I want to say on behalf of BUT, we're going to do everything we can to prevent Ukraine from being sold in 2012. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m0.u81	Yes, please, Bondar Alexander Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m0.u82	Ladies and gentlemen, before that, I tried to express objectively the position of the committee that had made a positive decision. Now I'm bringing to your well-known decision of the faction that made a hard decision not to vote in favour of this bill and explain why. The better times of the Ukrainian economy are privatization, I've said this before, the government didn't take such drastic steps. I have reported the relevant laws of the government on more than one occasion, and there has never been support for deputies, such as the alcohol industry, which is guilty of privatization, has always been a serious objection. About the aviation, space government at all, it couldn't even dare go to Parliament because it would be a violent opposition and a scandal. A very radical change is now being made to the list of objects banned from privatization. I'd be happy to support a person who's engaged in privatization and liberalism. Once again, if there was another economic situation and privatization mechanisms that were being introduced in the country. With the privatization that's going on today, it's very dangerous. Well, first of all, we'll give this property away for nothing. That's clear. Because there is no competition at present, the desire of investors to participate in our privatization is not present and will not be in the near future in the face of a very difficult situation both in European countries and in America. Our investors have already acquired so much wealth that God let them deal with it, because our property needs a lot of investment. When we are told that our oligarchs are very beautiful and are dealing with the property they have already acquired, I want to say that even their billions are not enough to invest and bring it into order. The brothers still need their possessions on their shoulders, which will lead to very difficult situations. Well, the most important problem that now exists with privatization is the complete monopolization of individual markets by individuals. This will soon lead to a very difficult state of economic, social, and political even. If we have a chemical sector that is concentrated by one person, electricity by another, coal by another, and all of this will be concentrated in one hand, which market and which competition can we talk about? Unfortunately, the real government understands that the market is privatization. In other countries, the market is called competition. And both state property and private property must compete, but conditions for competition must be created. The monopolization of markets by individuals will never lead to economic, social, and political benefits. So I want to report to your general that our faction will not support this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m0.u83	Marina Perestenko, Communist faction. Get ready for school.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m0.u84	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. I give my word to the competent person on this matter, Marmazov Evgenia Vasilevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m0.u85	Please, Marmazov.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m0.u86	Respectable comrades! Of course, that law had long been expected and needed in principle. Because we have a lot of contentious moments. In this law, well, if you speak objectively, there are positive moments, of course. But there are negative and contentious moments. Positive. First of all, positive in the draft law is trying to link the requirements of article 5 of the Privatization Act to the list of non-privatizations. Because to this day we have a complete misunderstanding. If the enterprise even falls under the fifth article, under the requirement of the fifth article that the enterprise cannot be privatized but is not included in the list, the enterprise is subject to privatization. Like we used to have Luganskteplords, the Nicolaus Pipeworks. By the way, on Luhansktepolk, the commission went to Minust and said, however, it was clearly stated in the fifth article that the railway undertakings that produce railway wagons there should not be privatized. The answer is yes, businesses can't, and here's the deal. So we have, as it is said, the mess was the biggest. This is where they are trying to resolve the issue. The second moment is positive. It should be noted that they are indeed trying to streamline businesses that are available. We have many enterprises that are numbered, and they are no longer in our lives. They're united, they're reduced, they're reorganized, they're not there. And they count. Well, these two are, you could say, positive. Next thing you know, the moment that's causing, I'd say, anxiety. You know, I think this is our President's decision to complete privatization by 2014, complete privatization by 2014, and get 100 billion grivens from this privatization, I think, at any cost, he is trying to comply with this directive. Well, you know, it's controversial that when the State Certification System is being privatized. You've heard we're good with the quality of our products. What happens when this certification is private? It is alarming that the TEC, the TEC, is being privatized and requirements are already being removed to privatize the TEC enterprises, require a special law. Well, I'm also joining, well, here's how to delete from the list of non-privatizations the Arsenal, Antonov factory, Kharkiv aviation plant HEMZ, Kiev Instrument. Well, in general, I think it's just an approach that's unimaginable, unthinkable when it comes to privatizing the property of shipping inspection complexes, space agency enterprises, aviation industry, metropolises. Well, what we want is, right now, we're putting on privatization, we're letting you privatize, so, "Ukrmorretz."
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m0.u87	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m0.u88	What it means to privatize is that for miners, it is equivalent to privatizing Gosgortechnadzor. What will be our security?Oh, my God! That's why there are other issues, you know. Some businesses think they're exhibiting, others don't. Here we go. Here we go. Here we go. This is how one enterprise is being privatized, and that is why Massandra is not being exhibited, Magarac is being exhibited. Or, let's say, all the liqueurs are exhibited, the Zitomir Liquor Plant, which is in the control system.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m0.u89	Eugene Vasilovich, wait.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m0.u90	I'm done. No, it's not.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m0.u91	Wait, please. Demyanchuk, are you giving him your speech? Yes, please continue, Demyanchuk will give you two more minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m0.u92	So it's surprising that this is, I think, an approach. Well, and I believe that if we are to finalize the draft so that we are already said to have clarity and clarity on this serious issue, then it is imperative that the requirements of article 5 on enterprises that are not subject to privatization be linked to the list in this draft law. If the enterprise fell under article 5, they could in no way be privatized. That's the first one. Second. It is necessary to supplement the second reading bill that the reorganization, liquidation of listed enterprises not to be privatized is possible only after they have been removed from the list. What's going on? The enterprise is not to be privatized, the Ministry has reorganized, transferred, joined and the enterprise has disappeared. Well, as a result, I'll say that, of course, the bill is raw, thoughtless. I think he's already under presidential orders. I therefore do not believe that this bill has been prepared for adoption. Our faction will vote against this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m0.u93	Andrew Schlell. Get ready, Gordy.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m0.u94	Of course, this bill can be discussed as being raw, as being incomplete, or incomplete. And for me, it's done very well, very well. Just a question to whom, and what should this bill symbolize? It should symbolize not only the enormity of the tasks assigned by the President of the Supreme Council to all the people of Ukraine. I've heard so recently that the President of Ukraine is already tasking the European Union, the United States, Russia, is afraid of the truth so far, but I think there is a lot of strength to put everyone here in place. So what's the problem? Well, what's the problem with the privatization of the space industry? What's the matter? Of course, it must be privatized. I don't understand at all. Ukraine is often compared to the Titanic ship, and the captain is today's president. "Titanic" sank, and all were lost, many people were killed, and there was no process of pillaging "Titanic" before the sink. It's just that our Titanic hasn't sailed to sea yet, it's standing on the dock, and now the process of looting everything that's left is about to begin. No one dared even to think that it could be stolen, stolen and put in their pocket, placed in their own home. Privatizing the space sector, privatizing the Danube seafaring is allowed, privatizing surveillance inspections. I'm proposing what far to go, and I'm proposing to the drafters that we allow and go straight ahead: privatize the DAI, privatize the police, privatize the prosecutor's office, privatize the tax inspection and all. As a minimum, officially no, you need to officially include in the list, put in a competition with one performer, and all will be clear. It is desirable that this performer be of proper origin. There's the main criterion: where do you come from, how often did you hold a baseball bat in your hands and stuff? Therefore, I believe that the bill is not something to vote on and cannot be seriously discussed. He's not raw, he's anti-State. And whoever's going to try not to protect him right now, but to bring him into life somehow, he's, well, at least he's going to be unfair to himself, because everyone who reads by throwing their eyes at those removals, at what's allowed to privatize, well, it's easy. Next step, let's privatize schools, there, I don't know, everything in the world. As far as railway privatisation is concerned, even in Britain there is no private railway in a sufficiently liberal country. From whom do we take the lead? This right here, believe me, this is not a "worov community" right now, it's a state. Gentlemen, let's go! I urge you to finally understand that you are now running the state, not an area, not a small area, and the whole country, you have to take responsibility for it. If you are robbing, at least rob it with quality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m0.u95	Sergey Gordienko, the Communist faction. After him is Alexandrovska.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m0.u96	Honorable Chairman, Honorable Colleagues, Honorable Citizens of Ukraine! The people say in a nutshell, "Pravatization is equal to thieving." All the privatization processes that have taken place in Ukraine have brought the greatest hardships to our people. People don't believe those words anymore, and they realize that privatization won't bring any funds into the state budget, and no further investment in the economy, and the funds will just be stolen. And this is a vivid example of this, let's at least take the famous epoch of an enterprise called the Creebrisstal. The bill today is called "On Making Changes to Some." The laws. Let's be honest and honest with people that it's a program, a new privatization program. And this is one of the most anti-national documents that the Supreme Council of Ukraine can consider, because in this list there are 700 enterprises that we have to sell for an unknown purpose. These are periodically said to be that the state cannot be an effective owner. Private business is an effective owner. But I've been giving you an example of the fate of Poltavanaftegasgeology, and I can still tell you dozens of companies in Poltavanaftegasgeology that fell under this knife, and that, first of all, was the economy of Ukraine and the fate of those people who worked in these same businesses. Who today will give an honest and true answer to the people of Ukraine: How many drills in Poltavska? Who do they belong to? How much are they extracting? At what price do these costs come, and where do they come from? Let's listen to the voice of the Communists today, and yet let's take decisive steps to support state-owned enterprises! Let's at least make state loans through state banks and at the rate of the National Bank of Ukraine and not waste these businesses! But let's ask ourselves the most important question -- and if we sell everything, what are we going to sell? And let's be honest, let's say privatization is a robbery, and it's a med race that pours honey out of revenue, just the rich merchants who, contrary to the people's will, are using the results of the so-called privatization, to be precise.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m0.u97	Alla Alexandrovska, Communist faction. Get ready, Lechchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m0.u98	It is unfortunate that the regulation does not allow this document to be read so that all Ukrainian citizens know what is happening and what is being done. Privatization took place, started under the good slogans: "We need an effective owner." Where were two thirds of sugar factories privatized? They're cut on metal. And there were millionaires who sold this scrap metal, who earned what they call their first million. Where are these effective owners? I saw that list with horror today, why? In this list, I have seen that it is excluded at the proposal of the Ministry of Industrial Policy of the National Science Centre “Harkovo Physico-technical Institute”. It's a world-famous organization where our best Ukrainian personnel are working today. And it is obtained that it is excluded from the list of sites which are not subject to privatization. There is a very simple explanation that this enterprise now belongs to the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine, and all these enterprises of the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine are of general State importance, a subtext that will not be privatized. But from the privatization programme, from the list of objects that are not allowed, it is excluded, and a loophole is created for privatization. In the same document, I saw another Kharkiv plant, the Research Institute of Instrumentation. Excluded at the proposal of the National Space Agency. It's a very simple word: "lost the sign of state importance." And what can this enterprise do? It's an enterprise, this institute, I read, is a basic institution for the creation of photoelectric converter technology: solar batteries, silicon microelectronic sensors, sensors for the orientation of spacecraft. And so on and so forth. That is, an enterprise that has technology, that has experts working there, that is excluded from the list, can be privatized. I'm looking further. The Communar Production Association is also excluded on the recommendation of the National Space Agency, as well as the “Wast a sign of state importance”. What did this enterprise do? I read: "The Union develops and manufactures systems for the management of rockets and missile complexes." I don't understand something. Only we cry out that Ukraine is a space state, only this is where we support the Cyclone programme, only we offer budget funding, only we are boasting of the whole world, that we are a space Power here, and yet this enterprise has lost the mark of state importance. That's ridiculous. If we have a policy of finding an effective owner and the State recognizes that it is ineffective, there is one single point: the lower one is the State.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m0.u99	Vladimir Leschenko, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m0.u100	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national MPs, honourable voters, today Parliament is considering an extremely important bill, virtually a privatization program. Privatization in Ukrainian is a huge affair. For many, decades, the Soviet people have created the power of the Ukrainian state, taken the best and sold for no price, including profit. Who in the world does that? Nobody does that. The money was wasted, or divided. The government does not answer the question: What has privatization given to Ukraine, to its economy, to the people, to the common people? We can't wait for the answer. Where the economy is being adopted or carried out by those privatized. Privatizers, do they carry out privatisation obligations? Absolutely not, a fresh example, is VAT "The Shrimp" or does it work? It only raises tariffs. The Communists have consistently opposed it. People with us, he's against us. That's because the Communist Party is a party of the working people. Suggestions. Stop the privatization completely, do the analysis: what it gave and tell the truth to the people. Strategic sectors and enterprises to regain ownership of the state, may they fill the budget. The liquor and the tobacco industry are just a state monopoly. If this is not done, the economic security of the state will be lost, production will continue to decline, unemployment will increase. Moneyless people, the extinction of our people. Shame on the privatizers! Stop bullying Ukraine, its people! The bill is to reject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m0.u101	Thank you. Yeah, two minutes left. Danilenko's handing over to Zybenko. Please, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m0.u102	Thank you. Communist faction, Peter Cibenko, head of the Ukrainian Veterans Council Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! I'd like to go to my colleagues at the Supreme Council of Ukraine meeting hall, especially those who are going to vote in favour of this bill, and I want to remind my colleagues of one of the first and most beautiful post-Radians helmets: "Pravatization will solve all the problems: it will fill the market with the goods necessary, it will fill the budgets, it will fill. She'll pay her salary, she'll fill up the funds. I mean, somewhere, it'll solve all the problems. You know, at the dawn of privatization, especially among people who didn't know much about the nature of the problem, it was. There was this thought: "Pravatization. Actually, it's not bad, but if it were fair, honest, and even better national, then it would be a great good thing." Dear colleagues, I would like to say that the 20-year experience of privatization, at least Ukrainian, shows that privatization as a theft cannot be fair or fair, no, more, national. Returning to the bill, esteemed colleagues, under privatisation, and this is already another wave of privatization, have more than 700 enterprises. Well, any government, any government that's going to run something, has to have instruments in its hands that matter. In this case, after this privatisation, the state is devoid of any influence on the processes that are taking place. So the faction of the Company of Ukraine will not vote for this document. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m0.u103	Yes, please, if you have a closing word, Pavelanko Vladimir Petrovich, you have three minutes to prepare.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m0.u104	Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! I wanted to inform you that the State Privatization Program was discussed at a government meeting yesterday, is being worked out at the Secretary of the Cabinet of Ministers and will be presented in an orderly manner to the Supreme Council. As far as the State Property Fund Act is concerned. Then the bill was submitted to the Supreme Council yesterday after a proper government meeting. I've got everything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m0.u105	Yes, Bondar, please, Alexander Mikolaiovich, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m0.u106	I want to remind the MPs that a few months ago I had to report this law to Parliament. And for the initiatives of the Party of the Regions, the issue has been brought forward, motivated by the fact that there are differences within the government, and a new bill will be introduced. Unfortunately, we did not get any new drafts. They passed the same one. Counting on the likely elimination of these differences in the second reading process. I don't know what the differences in the Party of Regions over this list are, but all the things that we've heard in the House of Deputies, it's very disturbing to know that they're actually taking to the privatization of the field that no government has dared to do, and that in other countries that are considered liberal, market-oriented, remain state property. It's said here that it's an impression that the authorities themselves are drinking the bitch they're sitting on because they're depriving themselves of any influence on economic processes. Whether this refers to the weakness of this authority, or whether it is written down in its own irresponsibility. Because there are areas that should be under the influence of the state during a period of economic crisis that is going on, that is going nowhere. And it is very dangerous during this period to have such objects, which constitute the State’s really national security, brought out for privatization. I wanted as a person in charge of the committee for the second reading of this bill, in fact, that the MPs should make the most of the amendments and that they should be supported by the session hall. But there is very little chance that this will happen as a result of previous considerations. So I think this list is going to be approved on the second reading almost in the same way that it's going to be approved by most people right now. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m0.u107	Question completed. I am voting on the proposal of a profile committee to adopt the Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on privatization. [[Registration number 8723]] [[13:19:21]] For 212 The factions. The party of regions – 182, "BUT" – did not vote, "Our Ukraine" – 2, Communists, reforms – did not vote, the People's Party – 20, non-fractional – 8. There's an offer to re-send the first reading. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:20:00]] For 217 The offer is not supported. The bill was rejected. The question is: the draft Law on Change in the Land and Water Codes of Ukraine on Water Fund Land. [[Registration number 8693]] There is a proposal for a reduced procedure to be considered. Please vote. [[13:20:36]] For 223 Offer supported. First Deputy Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources Romanov Mikola Ivanovich will report. Get Beazenka ready from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m0.u108	Good day, distinguished national deputies, distinguished presiding officer. Ukraine's draft Law amending Ukraine's Lands Code and Water Codes for Water Fund was developed on behalf of the President of Ukraine on the basis of his work trip to the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and related tasks of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The President of Ukraine was tasked with solving the problems of establishing land boundaries of the water fund along the coasts of the Azov and Black Seas without the development of suitable land projects. Article 88 of the Ukrainian Water Code and article 60 of the Ukrainian Land Code regulates the need to establish the boundaries of the coastal protection lines of all without excluding water objects under separate land projects, which are developed in accordance with the prescribed law. In doing so, the law that determines how such projects are to be developed by land administration is not yet in place. Thus, the development of land - management projects to establish coastal protection lines is not actually carried out, resulting in abuse and deterioration of coastal areas, not only in the Azov and Black Seas but also in other water objects. The draft Act proposes to amend the above articles to introduce the possibility of establishing boundaries for coastal protection lines of water objects without the development of separate projects by the land administration other than the seas, sea coves, and lemons. In order to do so, coastal protection strips of water objects are provided with urban documentation without the development of individual land projects. Rivers, streams, streams, lakes, reservoirs, and ponds outside the populated areas are bordered by land - based documentation. This will ensure that a limited business regime is maintained in the relevant areas without the development of separate land projects with regard to the establishment of coastal protection lines and the saving of significant ones.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m0.u109	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m0.u110	If you don't mind, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m0.u111	What?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m0.u112	One minute, if you'll excuse me.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m0.u113	Complete the last sentence.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m0.u114	There's a lot of resources to save the state. Costs. The bill is recommended for adoption by the First Committee of the Supreme Council on agrarian policy and land relations. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m0.u115	Thank you. Deputy Head of the Committee on Agrarian Policy and Land Relations, Valérie Bevanko
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m0.u116	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! You will find a draft of the Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Land and Water Codes, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, from 16.06. [[Registration number 8693]] 2011. What Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations considered at its meeting on September 15, this year. Ukraine’s draft law aims to improve the legislative regulation of relations resulting from the establishment of coastal protection lanes. In particular, the provisions of article 88 of the Ukrainian Water Code and article 60 of the Ukrainian Land Code define the general conditions and requirements for the establishment of coastal protection lanes along rivers, seas, and lakes, reservoirs, and other waters. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, as a result of the first reading, proposes a bill to be adopted as a basis. [[Registration number 8693]] Taking into account what has been said, the Agrarian Policy and Land Relations Committee proposes a draft of the Ukrainian Water and Land Code Amendment Act, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers, to be adopted as a basis. [[Registration number 8693]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m0.u117	Thank you. Shall we vote? No questions asked. Please sign up for the performance. Mikola Sherschun, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m0.u118	Thank you. Mikola Shershun, faction of the People's Party. Dear Head! Dear colleagues! A solution to the problem of coastal protection is simply necessary because, as has been said, this process is in place today. The reason for this was the conflict in existing legislation. Yes, article 88 of the Water Code and article 60 of the earth’s Code states that coastal protection strips of all water objects should be set up according to individual land projects in accordance with the order prescribed by law. However, there is no such law and there is no point in drafting it today, because the problem can be solved by making just a few changes to actual legislation. I mean, it's just pointless to make the process more complicated. In this way, I think it is necessary to support the proposed bill so that the process of identifying coastal protection strips can finally become stable and clear and conditions are created to maintain the right ecological state of the water. However, it is important to take into account the comments of the Committee on Environmental Policy. In particular, part six and part eight of article 88 of the Water Code must remain unchanged, and this is vital. The two articles of the Codex also need to be supplemented by additional parts regarding the anchoring of coastal strips with border and information signs. These suggestions can be taken into account in the second reading, so I suggest that the project be accepted in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m0.u119	Kravczuk, please, Faction BUT.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m0.u120	Basil Krawczuk, Faction "BUT" – "Fathership", Hmelnickin. This bill could be adopted and correctly stated by the previous speaker, Mikola Haritonovich, that it is a long time to legalize, to set limits, and in the Water Code it is provided for in article 88, and in the Earth Code in article 60. And it's defined here that 100 meters, if it's in populated areas. But if it wasn't for one thing. Article 88 of the draft law also states that in 60 it is proposed to establish that within the boundaries of the populated areas, the protection strips are installed according to the city’s construction documents, taking into account the existing conditions of construction. I mean, if I translate this into a simple language, I think this law is lobbyistic for those who have already built their property on their own, as the reporter has already said, after a visit to Crimea, that is to say, it refers mainly to property on the coastline, near the seas, and to legalize it for those who have built their property and now do not want to carry out the decisions of the courts or any other clauses. That's why the BUT-Paternity faction won't vote for this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m0.u121	Gordien.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m0.u122	Sergei Gordijenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company, Poltavščina. Dear colleagues, the esteemed radio listeners, of course, are extremely thin pieces, they're coastal lanes, and there's a huge fight going on. By testifying to that, look at any area or at least near Kiev here. Even those born here and originally alive can no longer reach Dniper. Of course there is a question, but the problem needs to be settled, and as much as we can agree on it is to vote in favour of the project in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m0.u123	The factions that didn't make it, who insists? How can I separate you, who is your manager? One minute? Please, Rabbit, 30 seconds and Carmazin, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m0.u124	Ladies and gentlemen, I suggest you not vote in favour of this bill for any reason. That's the point. The fact is that the setting of coastal protection lines is regulated today by legislation and provides for a bill that determines how these boundaries are to be established. The Cabinet doesn't deliberately submit this bill, it says, "Let's set such a standard that we liberalize this process. If there is no position in urban activities, there is no section on protective boundaries.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m0.u125	Yes, please, Carmazin, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m0.u126	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! Well, where the hell is the devil? The Devil is hidden in a trifle. Please see the left column and the right compare table. Now it's going to be written, "In the event of uncertainty in the city's construction documentation, the boundaries of the coastal protection strips in the populated areas, these strips are set to be 100 meters wide from seawater cuts, sea coves, lemons and so on." So instead of 2 kilometers we're protecting, it's going to be very good, 100 meters. And another novel: "In the midst of the population, the coastal protection strips are installed behind the city's construction documentation.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m0.u127	Yes, thank you. Question completed. I am voting on the committee's proposal to adopt a bill amending Ukraine's Lands and Water Codes. [[Registration number 8693]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:31:56]] For 230 The law is adopted in the first reading. The factions. The Party of Regions – 179, "The Fatherland" did not vote, "Our Ukraine" – 2, the Communists did not vote, "Reforms" – 20, the People's Party – 20, non-fractional – 9. We hear the question: the draft Act amending article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on State Support for Agriculture of Ukraine. [[on the resolution of differences in subsidization of enterprises]] [[Registration number 9026]] There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. He's in charge. [[13:32:44]] For 215 Offer supported. Reported by Sergey Ivanovich Melnik, Deputy Minister of Agriculture and Food. Get ready, Perstenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m0.u128	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! Ukraine's draft Law on Amendments to Article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on State Support for Agriculture, designed to address specific issues of credit support for agri-industrial enterprises, to create more favourable conditions for lending to agri-industrial enterprises. The bill proposes to amend article 13 of the law, which provides for, inter alia, the deadline for granting credit for long - term loans from 36 to 84 calendar months. This will increase the deadline for lending credit subsidies related to the need to stimulate investment in the agrarian economy in the form of credit costs for extended production. Next. This is an opportunity for agricultural enterprises to get interest on short-term loans within 12 calendar months, not just in the current year. The changes that have been made will allow credit subsidies to be given to companies that engage in autumn-field jobs and receive crops only in July-August next year and are unable to repay loans earlier. The next thing you know, it's the elimination of technical errors and omissions. In particular, the new title of article 13 — Credit support for agribusiness enterprises, credit subsidies. The recipients of credit subsidies are APC companies, not agricultural producers. Next. This is a clarification that the grant is subject to a portion of the loan that is used for the purpose. Considering that the adoption of the proposed draft law will create more favourable conditions for the participation of agri-industrial enterprises and will improve the mechanism for granting a credit grant at the expense of the State Budget, please support the proposed draft law.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m0.u129	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Marina Perestenko, head of the Committee on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m0.u130	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! You will be mindful of the draft Ukrainian Law amending article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on State Support for Agriculture, introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. [[Registration number 9026]] The purpose of this legislative act is to resolve the differences arising from the granting of a credit subsidy to an agribusiness company in place, by bringing credit subsidies into line with Article 347 of the master code of Ukraine and by allowing agricultural enterprises to receive compensation for the interest rate on short-term loans involved to cover production costs not only in the current year, but also in the following year, at the expense incurred last year within 12 calendar months. Ukraine’s 2011 state budget provides for the general fund’s financial support to agribusiness enterprises through a $531.4 million loan-making mechanism. Thus, the implementation of the proposed draft law does not require any additional allocation of funds from the state budget. A credit subsidy will be granted within the allocation of loans, as noted in the Budget Committee’s opinion of September 21, this year. The main scientific and expert management, in its opinion, believes that the bill can be adopted on the basis of the comments made, namely: some positions are not fully consistent with the established practice of teaching legislative material. The Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations proposes to adopt the bill as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m0.u131	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I think it's understandable. Vote? I am voting on the adoption of the draft Act amending article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on State Support for Agriculture of Ukraine. [[Registration number 9026]] Please be supportive. [[13:37:53]] For 272 Long live the village. We are considering a draft Act amending some legislative acts to ensure that a mandatory copy of the documents is delivered. [[Registration number 8541]] Igor Sharov suggests that we consider a reduced procedure, please support. [[13:38:29]] For 224 The initiative is supported. Thank you, Igor Fedorovich. The Head of the State Committee on Television and Radio is reporting to Kurdinovich Alexander Viacheslavovich. Get ready, Buttercup.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m0.u132	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! For your consideration, it is proposed to amend some legislation to ensure that a mandatory copy of the documents is delivered. This bill is designed to address the problem of systematic violation of the requirements of the Compulsory Documentary Law. The failure to provide a mandatory copy to its recipients every year reaches up to 20 percent of the book’s produce and 44 percent of the periodicals. At the same time, according to UNESCO’s decisions, the absence of at least five percent of the required copy is treated as a loss of national cultural property. With a view to resolving the issue, the bill proposed to amend the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences in the Part of Establishing Responsibility for Failure to Deliver a Prescription, as well as violating the delivery deadline, a fine of 30 to 50 untaxed minimum citizens’ incomes, i.e. between 510 and 850 dollars. But to article 13 of the Ukrainian Act "On a mandatory copy of documents" in the definition of authorized authorities to ensure that it is controlled. The specified amount of the fine is based on the relative losses incurred by society due to the lack of documents from the State’s national funds. For example, if you take world experience and practice, there is a fine of at least $250,000 in a single missing copy in the United States, and it will amount to $2.5,000 in a repeated violation of that standard. In Canada this fine will amount to 25,000 Canadian dollars. The Russian Federation is currently also considering the establishment of appropriate fines, up to 30 minimum wage levels. In our opinion, the adoption of the law will allow for the operationalization of a mandatory copy to be made available to recipient institutions, the proper formation of library funds, and the prevention of violations of legislation in the relevant sphere. Thank you, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m0.u133	Thank you. Vladimir Leschchenko, secretary of the Committee on Law Enforcement.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m0.u134	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! The Committee on Law Enforcement has considered a draft of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts on the provision of a mandatory copy of documents, registration number 8541, which is proposed for first reading. The purpose of the bill is to establish responsibility for violating the procedure for delivering a mandatory copy of documents and to develop effective measures to prevent violations of the relevant legislation. The bill proposes to supplement the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences with a new article: 186 with a 7 badge, which provides for administrative responsibility for the failure or violation of the deadline for the delivery of a mandatory copy of documents, and to make appropriate amendments to article 255 of this Code, which defines the procedural powers of officials to draw up protocols for the commission of administrative offences provided for in article 186-7 of the Code on Administrative Offences. [[sending]] After reviewing the bill, the committee points to the absence of a mechanism for implementing its powers, since the subject of the law of the legislative initiative did not provide for the authority or officials who would have the right to deal with administrative matters concerning the commission of offences and to decide on the application of administrative responsibility. Of course, this failure could have been removed by the committee, but it is on the verge of article 116 of the Ukrainian Act on Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council that the draft law be returned to the subject of the legislative initiative for further work. It's a major science-expert management of the same mind. But if the Supreme Council of Ukraine authorizes the committee to finalize the bill for a second reading and to make the necessary change to the violation of article 116, it can be accepted as a basis in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m0.u135	Thank you. I think we're clear. Oh, no? Besides Carmazin, who else didn't understand? Sign up. Yavorowski Wolodymir. After him, asshole.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m0.u136	Good afternoon, Ukraine! To be honest, I do not understand the position of the committee and would like to express my opinion. Indeed, when this bill was adopted, it was that an independent Ukrainian state must, of course, have an information base, a book base, and so forth. To that end, it was decided that every printing work, the printing plant, would be required to deliver one copy. There is a question, and we will return to that law. The point is that maybe we should really talk about this in college, maybe we should reduce the number of these. Because there's a very expensive book, and to the publisher, let's say, there's 14 places to send it -- it's very expensive. But institutions such as the Library Chamber of Ukraine, which should have the entire book base that it is, should be provided with such copies. But this is our parliamentary assignment for tomorrow. And today, you yourself understand, since we have such a very divisive, I would say, legislatively, executively, even, more precisely, the basis for our laws, this law is very often not being implemented. And we're losing maybe some unique editions that I want to send, and I don't want to send, I don't want to send. And there's actually no responsibility for that, because there's no punishment. Because of this, I think it's wise to argue with the case there, let's say, sadness, maybe you can cut them a little bit, maybe you can increase them a little bit. This decision has our collective mind here in the Supreme Council, if it is, of course, this collegiate mind. But we just have to vote for it. 'Cause, well, we'll send you there for work. There are amendments to literally two articles to be made. Through Yulia Tymoshenko, he will vote for this and I urge you to do the same. It's very important. No politics, nothing. There is simply a wise decision to really have all the copies of everything that goes out in Ukraine that we have. It could be the library of Vernady, it could be the same library of the Library. This may be our parliamentary library with you. For this.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m0.u137	And it'll be the right thing to do. Gennady Bully, please. Behind him is Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m0.u138	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. MPs for Reforms for the Future, Zdirko, Mikolayevščina. What I'm saying is, we have these words in Parliament all the time: "Punishment, punishment, punishment." But we're not building a police state. And I think I need to understand that language is not just for books, but language is for periodicals. It may be necessary for Parliament to provide an article on public budget spending so that the state buys both copies of books and copies of magazines and newspapers. To be honest, I don’t understand why people, such as periodicals, didn’t send a copy of the newspaper at the same time, and that’s administrative responsibility. Sorry, we have a clear declaration of our priorities. Commercial, I'm sorry. Please buy and then make sure that people are interested in leaving their copies. I don't think our MPs are going to vote in favour of this bill. We're going to vote in favour of recasting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m0.u139	Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m0.u140	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I agree with the approach, the professional approach offered here by a colleague from the committee of profile. And I warn you from the emotional approach he has offered, I am very honored, Vladimir Yavorowski. Mr. Volodymyr, it is you I am addressing for not having to vote for this law. You don't have to for a few reasons. The first thought. The first is that the entire great government, signed by Prime Minister Azarov, is the genius of modern economic thinking, which is squeezing the Ukrainian bracelet, like the entire Ukrainian state, in relation to which the land must be sold for 300 US dollars, as they now write, and this genius has given birth to a tiny proposal, not least in its essence, which the committee has already mentioned, and a scientific and expert administration, which they have not mentioned, instead of giving this genius the whole range of activities and giving a new edition of the Code of Administrative Offences. I would like to stress this one more time. It's not the persecutors' fault, Mikola Janovich, it's your government. That's the first one. We need to work harder and study the material part. What do you suggest? A criminal code, article 53, states that there are criminal penalties in the form of fines ranging from 30 to thousands of untaxed minimums. And you start from 30 to 50, you set. You impose the punishments set forth in the Criminal Code. Well, read at least the material part. You can only set it up before that. You can't go beyond that. In view of this, this bill cannot be drafted, it must be thrown out of the government by the "bloodsuck." Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m0.u141	Please, Mikhail Vasilovich, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m0.u142	You know, there were two theses that were diametrically opposite, and I want to fully agree with what Vladimir Yavorivsky said. If we are building a nation, this law must be adopted. And if we want everyone in the State to move to commerce, there will be no Power. I propose to support this bill in its first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m0.u143	Question completed. Dear colleagues, let's support the first reading. We'll give the committee a second reading commission to make an appropriate bill. I am voting on the proposal to support the bill in the first reading on amendments to some legislative acts to ensure that a mandatory copy of the documents is delivered, please vote. [[Registration number 8541]] [[13:50:47]] For 245 Thank you. The Law is supported in the first reading. We're listening to the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on increasing accountability and improving public regulation in the area of urban activity, [[Registration number 8597]] There's a proposal for a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[13:51:27]] For 227 Offer supported. Reported by the Deputy Minister for Regional Development, Construction and Housing, Isenko Dmitry Valeriovich. Prepare Volodymyr Lechchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m0.u144	Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! Ukraine's "Regulatory of Urban Activities" Act has made a major reform of the construction sector. Yes, a builder today has the right to do construction work without permission to build, on a declaration basis. The principle of silent consent is introduced. The first and third categories of complexity are virtually eliminated. Construction projects do not agree, but the President of Ukraine commented that it was necessary to increase the responsibility of architectural entities in the construction process. So the Ministry has drafted a bill that we propose to support. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m0.u145	Thank you. Vladimir Leschchenko, secretary of the Committee on Law Enforcement.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m0.u146	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! The Committee on Law Enforcement has considered a bill submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to amend some Ukrainian legislation on increasing responsibility and improving public regulation in the area of urban activities. The purpose of its adoption is to improve public policy in the area of construction. In particular, it is envisaged to increase the amount of fines for construction offences, to differentiate the proposed fines according to the category of complexity of construction objects, to foresee the personal responsibility of individual perpetrators for construction offences, and so forth. It is proposed to amend the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences, the Criminal Code, the Master Code of Ukraine, the Ukrainian Laws on the Basics of Construction, on Pipeway Transport, on Electricity, on Architectural Activities, on Natural Monopolies, on the Welfare of Populations, on Construction Standards, on Urban Activity Regulations, and to propose a new edition of the Ukrainian Law on Responsibility for Civil Offences in Urban Activities. In principle, the committee supports the government’s desire to improve the legal basis for construction. However, a thorough analysis of the bill showed that he needed further work. Note by the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority on six sheets, the Ministry of Justice on three. The committee even received comments from the Minregonbud, who actually drafted the bill. In addition, the Rules Committees, the Fuel and Energy Complex, the Attorney General's Office, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Ukraine's Higher Specialized Court on Civil and Criminal Matters made their comments. The Committee on Construction, Urban and Housing and Regional Policy also proposes to return the bill to work. That's what the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration thinks. Therefore, after weighing everything, he is asked by the committee to send the bill for further work.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m0.u147	Thank you. Are there speakers? Except Carmazin? Please, Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m0.u148	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! Once again, I would like to point out that it is proposed that the same Code of Administrative Offences should be amended and signed by the same Prime Minister of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, why are you taking time in Parliament?Oh, my God! You make him work unproductively! Each of you may be charged with Article 365 of the Criminal Code, each of you. Because you're doing much more damage than Lucenko did to her than he's done or done to someone named Timoshenko and so on. On the other hand, I agree with the professional conclusion expressed by the national deputy Lechchenko. Separately for the protocol, I want it to be written that the sanctions proposed in article 79, between 50,000 and 50,000 non-taxable minimum citizens' incomes, it's just a frost. And please record that this is being treated! Treated with time, voters, doctors! Because even in 53 articles of the Criminal Code, you have a maximum fine for committing crimes ranging from 30 to 1,000 untaxed minimums, and you have 50,000 untaxed minimums, that is, 50 times more. Well, maybe we should study math after all! I understand that geology is good when it comes to giving up the nerve or the pipe. Maybe there's something else to study. As a result, Your Honor, I am firmly opposed to what is happening by non-professional committees to change the Criminal Code. This law has to be rejected without the right to return to the government by the "crovossia".
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m0.u149	Question completed. You can see the comments. First of all, there is work to be done on environmental issues and so forth. I think you can fix it for the second reading. I am voting on the proposal to adopt a draft law in the first reading amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts. [[on increasing accountability and improving public regulation in the area of urban activities]] [[Registration number 8597]] [[13:58:27]] For 238. The Law was adopted in the first reading. I would ask the committee to be careful about preparing it for the final edition, because, in fact, there are questions that don't raise the responsibility as much as they lead to there being nothing, no responsibility. The factions, please. The Party of Regions – 184, "BUT" did not vote, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 5, the Communists did not vote, "Reforms" – 20, the People's Party – 20, the non-fractional – 9. We should be looking at Bill 8684 right now, but unfortunately, all the heads of the Ministry of Emergency Situations are on a mission and no one is to report. That's why we're carrying it. There's a bill to amend the Ukrainian Act on Narcotic Drugs, Psychotropic Substances. I'm going to continue the session for 15 minutes. Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Narcotic Drugs, Psychotropic Substances and Precursors. [[on the provision of medical and veterinary facilities for the use of narcotic drugs in the workplace]] [[Registration number 9021]] There's a proposal for a reduced procedure, Tetjana Bachtieva suggests. Please be supportive. [[14:00:10]] For 226 Offer supported. Reported the head of the State Drug Control Service, Timoshenko Vladimir Andriyovich. Prepare Bachelor.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m0.u150	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! The draft Act amending the Act on Narcotic Drugs, Psychotropic Substances and Precursors submitted for your consideration has been prepared by the Ukrainian State Drug Control Service to carry out the Prime Minister's mandate since 22 February of this year. [[on the provision of medical and veterinary facilities for the use of narcotic drugs in the workplace]] The bill is aimed at addressing the issue of granting physical persons who practice medical and veterinary practices the possibility of using narcotic drugs, psychotropic substances after obtaining a licence for the relevant activity. With the adoption of the draft Law on Narcotic Drugs, Psychotropic Substances, and Precursors, this will be brought into line with the Ukrainian Code of Master. The adoption of this law will enable all subjects of all forms of property to be equalized in their rights, to increase healthy competition among health and veterinary practitioners who use drugs in their work, to ensure access to quality medical and veterinary care for all citizens, especially those living in rural areas today, to strengthen the control of people using narcotic drugs, psychotropic substances, and precursors in medical and veterinary practice. As a result, Ukraine’s legislation will be aligned with the conventions of 1961, 1971, 1988, respectively, ratified by Ukraine. The bill is supported by all interested authorities. Honourable National Deputies, Order of the Cabinet of Ministers of 05.10.2011 No. 1050.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m0.u151	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m0.u152	Some drugs have been suspended and will only work until March 1. Therefore, I ask you to support the draft bill, to adopt it as a basis and to adopt a decision to consider the bill for the second reading under a reduced procedure. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m0.u153	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Bachelor Tetjana Dmitrovna, head of the Health Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m0.u154	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Ladies and gentlemen of the people! The Health Committee considered the bill at its meeting on 14 September and decided to support the Cabinet of Ministers' initiative on the need for a legislative solution to the issue of the provision of medical veterinary care to individuals who are able to use psychotropic means in their work. Today, doctors and veterinarians who practice fair practices and are not legal persons do not have one. the use of narcotic substances in its practice. In the current law, the right to a licence for drug trafficking and therefore the right to use controlled substances are given only to legal persons. Such a rule was, of course, discrimination, since it prevented doctors from providing the types of assistance offered by the use of controlled substances. First of all, these are, of course, narcotics and powerful substances. This is particularly important in cases of emergency medical and veterinary care when the patient's life is at risk. This situation, as the colleague has already said, following the adoption of the Cabinet of Ministers'decree on 5 January 2011, in which the widely used ketamine was referred to as substances that were subject to the Act. To address this problem, the Cabinet of Ministers suspended the regulation until 1 October 2011. And these days are very critical. The Chief Research and Expert Office of the Supreme Council proposes to return the bill to the finalization. However, our committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m0.u155	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m0.u156	With all the comments of the Chief Scientific and Expert Office and ready to prepare a draft for second reading, taking into account all the comments. Please therefore support our first reading and prepare our Committee for second reading in a reduced time frame. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m0.u157	Thank you. Are there those who are willing to share in the discussion? Then I put a motion to vote: to adopt the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Narcotic Drugs, Psychotropic Substances and Precursors. [[on the provision of access to medical veterinary practices for the use of narcotic drugs in the workplace]] [[Registration number 9021]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[14:06:19]] For 289 Thank you. Copy that. But I would ask the profile committee to take it very seriously so that we don't cause any trouble. Because we're greatly expanding the possibilities of any private structure, one thing is working with people, and the other thing is working with animals. We mixed something up here, unfortunately, we mixed something up. Well, let's look closely at the second reading. And one more question: the draft Act amending the Ukrainian National Information Programme Act. [[Registration number 7505]] There's an offer under a reduced procedure. [[14:07:12]] For 222 Offer supported. Please report: Seminozhenko Vladimir Petrovich. None. Who's gonna be on the committee? Davemuk? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m0.u158	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues, distinguished ladies and gentlemen! The Committee on Science and Education, at its meeting on June 15, 2011, considered this issue and decided to propose, as a result of the first reading, that the bill should be returned to the subject of the right of legislative initiative for further development. On the one hand, the legislative basis of the national information programme needs undoubtedly to be updated and brought into line with other Ukrainian laws. Since 1998, when this basic law has been passed, legislative provisions for the modern mechanism of strategic government have in principle been updated. However, there are a number of observations of a conceptual nature regarding the alignment of proposed changes with valid laws, such as proposals for the repeal of the requirement for approval by the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the tasks of the National Information Programme for the next three years need to be harmonized with article 85, paragraph 5, of the Constitution of Ukraine, according to which the powers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine include the approval of state-wide programmes for economic and technical, social, national and cultural development of environmental protection, etc., as well as with the provisions of the Ukrainian Law on Public Objective Programmes. The weight of this issue is hundreds of millions of dollars, including in the 2011 State Budget, more than 330 million dollars are available for information tasks. In addition, the proposed changes need to be aligned with other legislative proposals for modernizing the information management system. In particular, a bill was adopted on May 12, 2011.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m0.u159	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m0.u160	to some Ukrainian legislative acts on national commissions that regulate natural monopolies in the field of communication and information, which propose the principle of changing the system of public regulation, particularly in the area of communication and information, which requires the implementation of a single state policy in the field of information. The main scientific and expert office believes that the first reading of the bill can be adopted on the basis of the comments and suggestions made. Please support the committee's proposal to return the bill to work. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m0.u161	Thank you. Yeah, who's there? Mr. Blackwall, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m0.u162	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues of the Ukrainian National Deputies! Our MP group, Reforms for the Future, having considered this bill, was simply openly surprised at how it might have appeared in principle. We suspect it's just some mistake to make, which sometimes happens to change, structural changes that take place in the government. This is in 2010, perhaps when some changes took place, this document was accidentally missed. It directly contradicts the Constitution of Ukraine. The relevant legislative act proposes to remove the rule that provides for the annual preparation and introduction of the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers' work programmes for the following financial year and for the annual approval of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Although this position is directly enshrined in article 85, paragraph 5, of the Constitution. At this point, enough for the bill to be withdrawn is not considered. Instead, all the other problems that arise in the information program, and they really are there, were prepared in a normal, constitutional, re-emphasized, comprehensive bill, and then adopted in agreement, accepted normally in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In this case, we ask that this bill be removed from the vote at all, because it is directly contrary to the Constitution. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m0.u163	Question completed. I am voting on the proposal to adopt the draft Act amending the Ukrainian National Information Programme (registration number 7505). I'd like to make a statement. [[14:12:41]] For 216 Not supported. It's up to the committee to put the bill back on the table. I'd like to make up my mind. [[14:13:03]] For 211 Not supported. The bill is off-limits. At this morning’s meeting of the Supreme Council, I declare closed. It's 4:00 p.m. at the beginning of the evening.
