ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[16:00:45]] Cards were registered in the 386 National Deputies Sessional Hall. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft Law on Legislative Measures for the Reform of the Pension System is under review. Registration numbers: 7455, 7455-1, 7455-2. Rapporteurs: Deputy Prime Minister of Social Policy Tihypko Sergey Leonidovich, Ukrainian National Deputies: Pavlovski Andrija Mihajlovich, Yacenouk Arsenij Petrovich. Correspondent is Head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons, Suškevich Valeriy Mihajlovich. Yes. [[B in m in s a l in]] Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to issues. I understand all your emotions, your humor. That's very good. It's helpful at work. The beginning is very important. Yes, reporter, please. If they insist, let's put it to a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m1.u2	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The current state of the pension system shows the urgent need for reform. The main objective of the reform is to ensure a decent standard of living for Ukrainian citizens who paid pensions during their working life and to increase social justice in society. Why is reforming the pension system necessary right now? First. Most people who have reached retirement age, and especially those who have retired 10-15 years ago, get a low pension. Over 60 percent of pensioners receive pensions of up to 1,000 dollars. We condemn our pensioners to a miserable existence. The other one. The pension system is socially unfair to most pensioners. To date, there is no maximum pension limit, and some highly paid categories of pensioners receive a salary without restriction, not one that is paid to social funds. Third. Ukraine refers to countries with ageing populations that have caused a steady deterioration in the ratio between working and working age. In Ukraine, 13 million 766 thousand pensioners and 14 million workers are paying contributions to the Pension Fund. That is, for 98 pensioners, there are 100 pensioners. And by 2014, one worker will be supporting one pensioner. Four. Pensions in 2009 amounted to 18.1 per cent of GDP, 17.6 per cent of GDP in 2010. In doing so, it should be remembered that the amount of pension contributions is 35 percent, one of the highest rates in Europe. And we don't have to pick it up, we have to think about how to shorten it. With such a difficult situation, we must urgently approach the reform of the pension system. Otherwise our pensioners will be poor. A solid pension system will fail to meet its obligation and will only worsen. What's more, if we give up some unpopular decisions, we'll just put them away for the next generation of politicians who will be responsible for what we haven't done right now. On what do we think we need to focus our efforts at this stage of pension reform? In order to interest individuals in a longer, more active life and incentives for early retirement, it is necessary to increase the minimum necessary insurance service to receive pensions from 5 to 15 years of age. The normal length of the insurance period for retirement at the minimum of 20 years for women and 20 years for men to increase by 30 and 35 years. Gradually, within 10 years, the retirement age of women and men will be balanced. The retirement age of women increases by 6 months each year for 10 years. It's unpopular, I understand, but it's absolutely necessary. Honourable national deputies, with a view to achieving a fair redistribution of pension funds, increasing the role of apprenticeships and earning pensions in order to achieve social justice, the bill is intended to limit the maximum pension rate to 10 per cent of the subsistence minimum for those who have lost their jobs to 7 thousand 640 dollars; to reduce from 90 per cent to 80 per cent of the salary for the calculation of the pensions of public officials, which is the basis for the appointment of these pensions; to increase the retirement age for national deputies, judges, prosecutors, military servants from the amount of their salaries, to which the only social contribution is due, as for other categories of pensioners; to increase the pension age for men, civil servants and categories, which are equivalent to those of age up to 62 years, starting each year in 2013. Assign early retirements to national deputies when their credentials are completed, not two years before the retirement age, but one and a half years after the other categories of pensioners. Ladies and gentlemen, as a result of the U.S. public discussion, the bill has been amended to alleviate the most pressing issues for citizens. These are just some of them. The possibility that by 1 January 2016, 60 months before 1 July 2000 will be counted for the appointment of pensions. I want to say that this standard is now mandatory. This bill foresees that this will be done on a person’s own account. An increase in the salary to calculate pensions for people who were unemployed because of their optimisation of 10 percent of their earnings by excluding periods of unemployment benefits. More progressive, over 10 years of service, for military pensioners and for seniority years of education in civilian schools for 6 months per year of education. A successful pension reform is not possible without a set of legalization and employment measures with pay in envelopes. Bills published by the Ministry in April aimed at the childization of wages in Ukraine through the creation of economic incentives for legalization. After discussion with trade unions and employers, the bill will be submitted to the Supreme Council. The question of optimizing the expenditure of all social insurance funds is being addressed separately, and the possibility of lowering the burden on the pay fund is being considered primarily for corporations. The introduction of pension reform will bring the introduction of a second level pension system that will increase the interest of each person in legal fees and reduce the level of economic Tinning. The accrual system of pension insurance will allow for the diversification of income sources in old age and additional investment in the economy of the state. The bill also provides for the improvement of the mechanism for the suspension of retirement, the voluntary suspension of retirement, and certain compensators. Yes, within the first five years of retirement, the projected increase of 0.5 per cent for each month's later retirement is over five years -- an increase of 0.75 per cent per month. When a person reaches retirement age, no written consent or statement will be required, as is being done now, and the calculation will be, not for the full calendar year, but for the full calendar month. Temporaryly, for 3 years, women are offered the option of voluntary retirement after reaching 55 years with a 0.5 - percent reduction in retirement each month. In doing so, it is envisaged that further employment will allow for the possibility of restoring the full amount of the pension. In each six months of retirement at the age of 55, women will receive an increase of 2.5 percent to their assigned pension. So in five years, pensions will be increased by 25 percent. This pension will be paid on a permanent basis, not on a temporary basis. Education, culture, health care, and social protection are provided for the payment of one - time financial assistance on retirement as government officials in the size of 10 monthly pensions. And the last. We are aware of the possibility of not signing a law when there is a rule on the limitation of already over-resourced pensions to the maximum size and application to the Constitutional Court. In this regard, we will not insist on abandoning this standard in the second reading of the bill. The government has taken a comprehensive approach to modernizing the pension system at this stage. We have maximized all possible standards for people by preserving the economic effect on the solidarity pension system. With this in mind, please accept the bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m1.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up for a question to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine. Please put the names of the national deputies on the information board. Stanislaw Arzhevtin, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m1.u4	Dear reporter.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m1.u5	And time is coming. Just like he's on his way to retirement.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m1.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, I have a question for you. Please tell us, in the Carpathian region, especially in the Zacarpathian region, there are a lot of employees. For hundreds of thousands of years, people have come out of the countryside. And what about the pension problem that arises because there are categories of people who are willing to give up their employment books, but they don't know how to do it, in what institutions? There is a category of people who are willing to pay part of the money they have earned in order to accumulate. How can they be, since they should not have jobs and have to earn so much in other parts of the world? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m1.u7	I want to remind you once again that we have a solid pension system. This means that all the people who work are holding up those who are retired today. For such people today, if they do not want to break ties with our solidarity pension system, they can make their own contributions, even once, to the Pension Fund. [[And now we're just simplifying this possibility.]] Thus, they will be assigned pensions accordingly. There's an appropriate mechanism. Now we've just worked on this mechanism and simplified it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m1.u8	Vladimir Landik, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m1.u9	Please pass the word to Stoyan.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m1.u10	Alexander Stoyan.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m1.u11	Dear reporter! One argument in favour of pension reform, you said, is that social justice will be done. Give me the answer to the question. You limit the 10 minimum pensions to the maximum pension. Why did such large pensions arise? Because of the different formulas for the assignment of pensions, 80-90 percent for government officials, 45-50 percent for all other citizens. You left this formula at 80 percent. I'm asking you a question. Would it not be better to include pensions in a single formula? And then you don't have to limit, trim, refine, or anything like that. If we say fair system, solidarity system, please enter a position like that. And one more question. Please give public confirmation as to whether women have the right to retire at the age of 55, which is the argument. It's just a painful question, sharp. You've been talking about it so you'll have a chance. On what grounds and when do women have the right to go out at 55 years of age? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m1.u12	With regard to the maximum pension, the bill that is foreseen today proposes to limit the maximum pension to 10 living minimums for non-working persons. Today this figure is 7 thousand 640 dollars. By the end of the year, it had already been decided that the subsistence minimum would be 800 dollars and the pension would be a maximum of 8,000 dollars. Today, 14,000,412 people receive such a pension in the country. One. Secondly, we think we need this constraint because we have the maximum amount of social contributions to the Pension Fund. As for the only formula, I think this is going to be the next step that we have to go through, which we have to prepare now. But it needs to be done when we reform wages for those categories that we are now assigning a pension under separate mechanisms. We need to take care of our civil servants, who will then be in a much worse situation. Because today, especially at a low level, they have a small wage, and they can't forge any more. We're just going to lose the potential of public service personnel. I think we'll get to that a little bit later. As far as women's rights are concerned, yes, we've set a standard by which a woman, if she's 30 years old, can retire herself, but she'll lose, and I think that's perfectly clear because the solidarity system works, she'll lose 0.5 percent to the assigned pension every month of the previous exit. For example, if a standard is voted and a retirement age of 55 years is six months, it will lose three percent, six months. In six months, she will lose three percent to allow the woman to return to work and resume her entire life.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m1.u13	Yes, Oleg Zarubinski, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m1.u14	Thank you. Please pass the word to Catherine Vaszczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m1.u15	Katerina Vaschuk, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m1.u16	Dear Sergio Leonidovich, I have such a question. Can't this law include the rights of farmers who work on their farms as disposables, a minimum pension benefit, and an internship, depending on how many products they produce, and they have the right, which all workers, to account for, not their age, but their internships? To spread certain rules of small businesses. And the second question is whether the birth of many children will be taken into account by many mothers who are long - aged and retired. Will age be reduced for such many mothers? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m1.u17	Catherine Timothy, first of all, you asked me about the pensions that had already been assigned, and I said, once again, I would like to emphasize to all the national MPs that if changes were made after the already-appointed maximum pensions, the government would not insist that such a rule be voted on during the second reading. That's the first one. The other one. It's about one person. Today there is an opportunity for such people to pay whatever kind of contribution they want to make, including from the minimum wage, and this will give them the opportunity and internship to have, and these contributions will be taken into account. They're going to go to the retirement rate that they're practically going to make on account of these contributions. We're just simplifying this possibility right now. As for many young women. It is their time to take care of their children and care for them when they are on vacation. Moreover, we went to meet these women in these positions. As a rule, this reduces wages, and this affects the level of their assigned pension. We're giving women the opportunity to get out of their employment so that they can get a fairer pension. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m1.u18	Thank you, too. Time's up. Have a seat, please. Andrew Pavlovsky, please, regarding Bill 7455-1.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m1.u19	Andrew Pavlovski, "BUT is the Fatherland." Respectable compatriots! Let us ask ourselves: Should the pension system of Ukraine be modernised and improved? The answer will probably be yes. And we all well remember the generous promises made by President Viktor Yanukovic regarding the minimum pension of 1,000, 200 dollars, that the average will be more than 2,000 dollars. But for the time being, poor pensioners never saw it coming. The so-called reform proposed by the Yanukovich government is difficult to call complex, systemic, is an unrelenting desire to solve the deficits of the Pension Fund's budget, saving first of all the costs at the expense of pensioners and ordinary citizens themselves. The correct name of this powerful law is about the pension genocide of Ukrainian citizens. And what's important is that he's trying to hide from us right now the authorities that the so-called government pension reform is going to bring down pensions primarily for every citizen, and everyone is going to get hurt. They plan to do so at the expense of unpopular, humanoid standards, such as a five - year increase in retirement age, starting with women. I would like to ask in the government of Azar: Why do you not love women so much, and why? An increase of 10 years for women and men will result in a reduction in pensions, because there will be a reduction in the base for the calculation of pensions. They will force soldiers and militias to serve more for five years, plan to limit payments to working pensions, but they have forgotten that there are two high - ranking pensioners in the country who receive huge salaries and pensions, and families whose families have long been millionaires or billionaires. I mean pensioners like Yanukovich and Azarov. In this way, let them show their own example of how to stretch their belts, and let them give up their huge pensions. I would like to point out that according to the polls conducted by the USID, by the way, 92 percent of the population does not support these cannibal measures, which you call reforms. What, you're gonna break people's knees? You don't get used to it. What is the cost of these cannibal measures? The price is only 2.5 billion dollars. And is it worth hurting millions of people? And that doesn't solve the pension deficit at all last year. And at the same time, the authorities are boldly and cynically telling us that there is no alternative to these man-eating measures. It's not true how it's not true and what the International Monetary Fund requires. There are other ways, and it's the Motherland Party that's offering them. I would like to point out that pension problems are not the main ones, they are secondary, derived from an inefficient, non-rational production structure, from the extremely unfair distribution of state incomes, when out of dozens of semi-criminal oligarchial clans control 90 percent of the economy. As a result, in Ukraine the lowest wage in Europe is less than 7 percent, while in neighboring European countries more than 30 percent in the final output of the Academy of Sciences. In the past year, the average wage in Ukraine was almost $290. For comparison: in Poland -- $1 thousand 300, in the Czech Republic -- a thousand 460, with food being twice as cheap as ours. With small wages, a decent pension is impossible. The government of oligarchs is hiding from us: without a substantial increase in wages twice or three times, it's impossible to carry out pension reform, it's going to be another campaign and a deterioration in the lives of millions of people. And the money is there, and all we have to do is have the will to get Yanukovich to force his master oligarchs to return them from Cyprus. Get the money back from the offshores, get it back from the shadows! By the way, as experts know, 50 percent of the economy is in the shade. This means that 120-130 billion dollars are paid for shadow wages, so the Pension Fund is under 40-50 billion dollars a year. With a fair distribution, the Ukrainian has to pay at least a thousand dollars. If only our authority were to steal less, that would be possible. In solving these problems, the main task of the government, the Januković government, not the cynical theft, is to remove the last rubah from ordinary citizens. And I'd like to say the rest. Today, in Ukraine, more than 30 laws determine pension insurance and 10 special laws that establish different methods of calculating it. Therefore, with a view to establishing the only principles of pension insurance for citizens – increasing the social status and pensions of education, medicine, culture, social sectors – an alternative bill is proposed to the government, which will allow for the creation of conditions for the unification of pension legislation – to produce the only approach to the calculation of pensions, the only formula if you want to calculate on the basis of the Law on General Compulsory State Pension Insurance. Citizens who perform the functions of a state - budgeting will receive additional State scholarships, apart from the general basis of the calculated pension. But not from the state budget, there will be no uncharacteristic payments, but from the Pension Fund. This will allow for the restoration of the basic justice of pensions in an active solidarity system. And today's oligarchic authorities of Yanukovitch need finally to understand that a decent pension is not a privilege or a benefit, and this is the sacred duty of the State to an older generation, which has created the social wealth from which you, the oligarchs of the Party of Regions, have earned your income. And I would also like to point out that it is Victor Janukovic and his regional oligarchs who are responsible for the deterioration of life in millions of people from the so-called pension reform, and they will be responsible for it. And I propose to vote by name. The list of people who will vote in favour of this "human" reform is published in the Voice of Ukraine. May the citizens of Ukraine know who to thank for their deterioration in life.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m1.u20	What about the question? Andrew, what about the question? Dear colleagues, please sign up for questions. Yes, Caplienne, please, the MP group "Reforms for the Future."
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m1.u21	Thank you for your word, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear reporter, here's the question. Please tell me you're proposing an alternative bill. Both the First and the Government Bill have its faults, but yours has its faults too. Worldwide, there is a pension reform that is based on three or two basic levels. Your bill only provides for reforming the solidarity system with the definition of additional state scholarships. So why is he one-sided? So why don't you, knowing you, Mr. Andrey, why don't you first come up with a comprehensive bill that is at least comparable to the German pension scheme. Please respond.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m1.u22	My dear colleague, I would like to point out that before we do this, we want to make an effort to reform in a comprehensive way, let's bring about an order and restore basic social justice, at least in a solidarity system. Not that we have 7 million citizens who get 800 dollars' pension, and 14,000 who have 10, and 20,000 dollars and more. And I'd like to point out that the accumulation system, the second level of pension insurance, it's not that simple a thing. There's a big, complex bill that's going to solve this issue. Because there's a big threat that our government wants to give money to private, private, funds. I'm afraid the story with the trusts doesn't happen again when people got their money ripped apart. And that's how a person spends his whole life on retirement, and then comes along and says, "Well, I'm sorry, they burned the funds, either stole the inflation or something."
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m1.u23	Yes, Stanislaw Arzhevtin, the faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m1.u24	Dear reporter, I have two questions for you. The first question is similar to that of the workers on the other side of Carpathian and that side of Carpathian. How does your draft law address the pension problems of our employees? That's the first question. And the second question. Please tell us what happens when a family loses a breadwinner who may have accumulated savings on a savings account. And when a family loses that breadwinner, how can you be such a family, and how do you see the solution?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m1.u25	Thank you for asking. It's a very serious question that concerns thousands of our citizens who are forced because, here in Ukraine, today's authorities can't create new jobs, go, do not do the most prestigious jobs abroad. At the same time, they work abroad for a foreign economy, deposit money in their funds. Ukraine usually gets nothing here except their translations. So I think we need to sign interstate agreements here, so that the contributions that they make abroad are accounted for here in retirement, because, really, when they get back here, they're only going to get minimum pensions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m1.u26	Yes, Saint Olive, non-factionable, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m1.u27	Dear Andrew, it is clear that any reform is not an easy thing to do, and even more of a pension reform. Of course, they will always be dissatisfied, and some of the population will be dissatisfied with any change in the situation. Tell me, do you think that you can make a retirement reform aimed at reducing retirement to an increase in retirement age, but in no way reduces the State's maintenance costs? Is such an approach correct and adequate? Does it really stimulate the relationship and trust between society and the state? That's the first question. And the second. Still, what do you have to offer to encourage those who are working today to share some of their income to fill the Pension Fund?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m1.u28	Thank you for asking. You know, I'm always wondering why our reformers have always understood that reformation is only about making people's lives worse? And I was so naive, I thought that reforms were being carried out to improve. And it turns out that it's not tax-free reform -- they're throwing people out on the street, small businesses. What's not a pension is a reduction in pensions. Should we change the philosophy of the reforms themselves? And that's why it's so happening that in power right now it's a big, shadowy oligarchy capital. Clearly, he is doing so only for his own good. The main mass of ordinary citizens, small-scale middle - capital entrepreneurs. I think we need to restore basic justice at least in the primary income distribution, not be afraid to introduce a progressive scale of taxation from large profits. Finally, you have the courage to impose taxes on wealth, on luxury items. As in the United States, as in Europe, Sweden, in other countries where we are equal and want to be as prosperous as we are. And that's what I think we should do.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m1.u29	Thank you. Time's up. Please sit down. Arsenius Petrovich Yacenuk, on Bill 7455-2.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m1.u30	Dear people of Ukraine! Today we are considering a draft law that applies to every Ukrainian, one who retired and one who retires. This is another woe-reform from the current government. What is the point of Ukrainian reform? And why is the government even proposing pension reform? Who in this room can answer one simple question: Why pension reform? I can tell you why. It's number one. In order to increase retirement by 5 years, and not only for women, but also for men, in the future. Item two. In order to increase insurance by 10 years. And paragraph three. To reduce the actual amount of pension after these introductions by 10 percent. It is said that the Pension Fund needs to be balanced. What is it? Why is the Pension Fund balanced, and why does the state and authority come into politics? In order to make a quality change of life, it was not the members of the Party of Regions, but the people who voted for you. You've reformed the court. It turns out that this judicial reform has been carried out for the President's Administration and for individual judges. You've undertaken a tax reform. It turns out that you've done the same tax reform only for the tax administration. You've carried out administrative reform -- and those that are closer to you, and those who are silent officials left at work, and those who have a click in the head, all of those who are unemployed today. Now you've reached retirement reform. It's true, there are problems in the Pension Fund in Ukraine. But do you know that the Pension Fund is nothing but a consequence of problems rather than a precondition? I ask the following question to the current authority: where are the jobs created, how are you going to solve the pension fund problem without giving people jobs and wages? Has anyone ever told you that the Pension Fund is being filled, first of all, by working citizens? Where is the growth of the Ukrainian economy? Where is the incentive to create employment? How can you raise your retirement age in a country where people die before you offer them retirement? You have introduced a so - called health reform. Tell the Ukrainians what will be done in the health system, how will the Ukrainian’s life improve, and how will the Ukrainian live longer? Do you think that just a pension won't have to be paid as they die before they retire? Now we're going to go through all the pieces of the bill and what needs to be done in the country. You're saying that there's no money in the country to provide adequate pensions. Indeed, they are not. And they will never appear when the government steals tens of billions from the government’s pocket and from taxpayers’ pockets. In 2011, you increased the cost of supporting the President, the government, the entire law enforcement machine that is currently in pursuit of the opposition by 5 billion dollars. In 2010, you founded a company called Livela, which stole 5 billion dollars from the state budget when oil was imported into Ukraine. Just about a month ago, you cheated on your owners and your members of the Party of the Regions for 24 billion debts of the Heatcommunergo and other companies in front of the state budget. I've already counted you 40 billion. Now let's move on. This year you've foreseen the financing of the Euro-2012 of 60 billion dollars, think of 60 billion. Do you do Euro-2012, do you do Euro-2012-2012-2012? You're going to build a world, or are you going to steal it anyway? [[Applause]] You want to do a pension reform, sort of for pensioners. Let's go outside and ask a pensioner what he's going to do in his life from this pension reform, or a young person who doesn't know if he wants to live in Ukraine or not because of you, because you're nothing but criminal power in this country. [[Applause]] And now we're going to move on to what you want to get. You want to get another loan from the International Monetary Fund. I'll tell you how many you've got. You took 57 billion dollars of credit today. Remember! In principle, these are loans that are equal to the sums of the sums that the oligarches of the Party of Regions own. Are you taking loans and transferring them to your private companies right now? This loan is another $2 billion, I have no doubt it will be stolen just as you stole the previous loan. The language that the IMF requires is that you should do what you promised and lied! This is your program. Every word in the President's program isn't executed. Now essentially the bill I'm proposing. First. My bill does not raise the retirement age, and I clearly point to the resources that are sufficient to pay everyone's pension. The other one. My bill foresees the so-called modernization of pensions. Tell us how to live on 764 bracelets. This is from the Bar Association of Regions today paying to Ukrainian pensioners. If I adopt my law, the pension will rise by 334 bracelets for 10 million Ukrainian pensioners. Third. I'm already hearing reports that you don't have to cancel big pensions. It turns out to be unconstitutional. How about constitutionally paying 764 bracelets and paying 100,000 dollars a pension to other citizens?Oh, my God! So my bill provides for the introduction of taxation of all over-retired pensions. And those three decisions of the Constitutional Court that preceded this law would clearly go against this bill. In that case, if we're introducing a system of over-retirement taxation, it's a direct constitutional norm. The Constitution states that all human beings are equal. It's not more or less equal, it's all equal. Four. My law provides for incentives to create jobs. This is the biggest problem in today’s Ukrainian state. 2 million Ukrainians, according to International Labour Organization statistics, have no place to work. How will you fill up the Pension Fund? How will you start production in the country? How are you going to change the country's economy if you're not creating jobs? Next. My bill foresees the introduction of a stockpiling system on January 1, 2013. I'm already thinking about those who are not yet 35 years old today, but these people need to know today that they have the right to a decent pension. The introduction of a cumulative system is a prerequisite for real reform of the pension system. My bill foresees that the sale of all state residences where the current and former authorities live; the cancellation of all parliamentary benefits; the third is the sale of half the car park of all state institutions. We have more cars in the district government than we have in the office of the German chancellor. Four. My bill foresees a real fight against corruption and childishness. You're saying you're missing 30 billion more for pension reform? Three hundred billion dollars is the annual cost of government purchases, half of which you steal, half of which you steal. Therefore, pension reform in the country is a reform that must be for the benefit of the people. You've forgotten why you came into power, you've forgotten your responsibility to millions of Ukrainians who were expecting, who don't believe today. I can only assure them of one thing: we'll do it exactly. We will ensure justice, equality, and a decent life for Ukraine and the Ukrainians! You'll never do that again. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m1.u31	Yes, dear colleagues, please. Please sign up for the question. Please have the names of the national MPs who signed up for the questions. Bullying, please, the reform group for the future.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m1.u32	Please tell Arsenija Petrovich, doesn't it seem to you that the content of each pension reform must also bear the responsibility of what is called Ukrainian oligarchs in order to complete the Pension Fund? Because there is such a strange situation that in our country the poor are poor and the rich are rich. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m1.u33	Thank you for asking. Only a year later, I understood the main slogan of the People's Party. It turns out there's just a few names for these people. And all of these names usually appeared in Forbes magazine. A paradoxical situation. The country collects billions of debts, the country goes into default, but there are three dozen people in the country who have acquired all the national property. The poorer the Ukrainian state, the richer the individual representatives of the Party of Regions. What kind of morality do you have, and what moral right do you have to take away 4 billion pensioners, and at the same time tens of billions of dollars a year to demonstrate your increase in wealth? [[It's in two years.]] A real war against corruption in the country. This is a guarantee of genuine reform.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m1.u34	Vladimir Romanovich Moysik.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m1.u35	Vladimir Moses, Party "For Ukraine!".. Give the word to Arjevetin Stanislaw.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m1.u36	Stanislaw Arzeviteen.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m1.u37	Arsenius Petrovich, we can ask you a question of this kind of financial nature. You were talking about creating jobs today. I'm going back to the subject of workers who don't believe, and I'm talking about the region of our Carpathian, of Lviv, of Ivano-Francian. And people don't believe that the state will create jobs for them. People don't believe in pension reform because they know it won't bring them anything. People themselves care to earn money for their old age. And you know that significant amounts are being made from abroad by wage earners, in general in Ukraine, it's a few billion dollars. And they're afraid to legalize them. They're afraid to show them. Because, you know, financial monitoring, on the one hand, is a tax inspection that estimates that taxes should be paid. Please tell me, how can these people make sure that they can legally import money and secure their old age?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m1.u38	People don't just don't believe it. I've looked at the latest surveys. It's a catastrophic survey. 35 percent of Ukrainian youths want to leave the country. This is the result of these so - called reforms. 35 percent of the people who have to create our country. They have no confidence in their own state. Why is this trust undermined? They look at a corrupt government, they look at a lie, they look at this so-called political elite, which is more like a criminal elite. And they certainly don't. Any reform requires trust, and to earn trust, we need to start with ourselves. If the President, the Prime Minister, the entire Cabinet of Ministers said, "We know about the problems in the country, and we start with ourselves, we reduce the cost of ourselves, we really fight corruption, we start thinking about you. Because we don't think about you just when we have to steal the vote before the election. And we're thinking about doing everything you've been promised," then people have confidence, then you can do both pension reform and judicial reform and tax reform.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m1.u39	Microphone. Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m1.u40	Then people believe in their future. Disappointment is the biggest disaster, I can only say it again, they won't believe it anymore.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m1.u41	Thank you. Cosub passes the right to the question to Jaroslav Sukh, right? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m1.u42	Arseny Petrovich! For me, there was an interesting phrase in your speech. You promised and lied, you must have said it ten times. If you could do that, without a false pathetic, you signed a Memorandum to the International Monetary Fund, and you personally drove this letter to headquarters, where you promised to increase the pension raise, and the growth in housing and utility tariffs? And, Arseny Petrovich, do you feel the difference? You're criticizing us for any action you take. For two years we have criticized you for your inaction. The Pension Fund, Arsenij Petrovich, is not balanced, the budget of the Pension Fund is balanced. We can't cut spending -- we're poor people, income growth can't increase, because new taxes. You know, you get it. You get it. You get it. You get it. You get it. You get it. A total of 6.7 billion dollars for all programs of the Ministry of Health. You're like an economist that I've respected before, and here you've all stolen, robbed, and so on, you can offer something real without being false?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m1.u43	I only criticize you for one thing: you thieves. I have nothing more to add, you're stealing from the Ukrainian state, you're a corrupt party yourself, you promised every pensioner -- this is the President's program, a pension corresponding to his employment. Why didn't you write that you're increasing your employment by 10 years? You also wrote: "working-condition qualifications." What about the election, when you left, you didn't say you'd increase your retirement age by five years? I read: "Minimum pension 20 per cent higher than the subsistence minimum." I read in that language as you went along with your program. Let's move on. Retired workers -- both wages and pensions. And the last one is protection from inflation. As a result, all you've done is a figure of three fingers for 46 million Ukrainians.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m1.u44	Thank you, time's up. Head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons, Suškevich Valeriy Mihajlovich You'll be out of town, won't you, Valery Mikhailovich? Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m1.u45	Vladimir Mikhailovich, I'm the only technical question. The point is, I was given five minutes of the Rules, three bills, at least 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m1.u46	Five minutes and three minutes to answer questions, we follow the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m1.u47	Thank you. Honorary colleagues, the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons, have considered a draft of the Law on Legislative Measures to Reform the Pension System. I want to point out that the question that we're looking at right now is extremely resonant. Colleagues, nearly 14 million pensioners, are the fates of them and those who will certainly become pensioners in the future. I want to remind you that there were parliamentary hearings. This hall and many experts, experts, government members, other state and nonstate institutions have addressed all the issues related to pension reform. All of this was reflected in the Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations. Unfortunately, we have not seen the implementation of these measures, which are reflected in the recommendations, in a bill that has been drafted. And all the work that was done by the Supreme Council, institutions, international and national experts, it's out of the question. I want to ask you a question that came up on the committee today, and it sounded like a constant question: What does pension reform do in this form of a pensioner? I want to say at least three positions that were considered on the committee essentially on this issue. The position regarding the close link between the size of the internship and the salary, the size of the pensions, or today’s pension depends on the length of the job and the wages? Is she retired? Dear colleagues! I want to give you one example, I don't want to say a lot of numbers, but the figures that came out at the committee meeting -- 28 percent of pensioners get the minimum pension they call today, the scary minimum pension number of 764 bracelets. That's 4 million pensioners getting 764 bracelets and living on them. Dear colleagues! 60 percent of pensioners receive a pension of up to 1,000 dollars. Now, figure out, 28 percent and 60 percent -- think about how much pension insurance and pensioners we have today. Is there a pension today? Not just by paying off the state for what looks like a pension? Today’s bill noted this at a committee meeting, a missing mechanism for the modernisation of assigned pensions. Dear colleagues! Before our parliamentary session, there were many calls to the committee -- a woman who asked and asked us to ask, a few years ago, she retired, and she had a more or less acceptable pension, which she had earned over a long period of work. Bottom line: Today, this pension without a modernization, without a modernization mechanism, is nothing; it cannot live on it. And today we are doing a pension reform, realizing the size of the pension, the minimum pension, and the pension that 60 percent of the pensioners receive. I want you to realize that any pension that's being made today, in two, three, five years, you can't practically live on it. There is no mechanism for the modernization of pensions in today’s bill. We're practically leaving our pensioners, the fate of them never living on that pension. And another problem is that it's a question of standards for the promotion of the pension. They're all up, but, you know, I'd particularly like to say what's going on with the disabled. Dear colleagues, the pension requirement, the minimum requirement for retirement and disability pensions, has increased from 5 to 15 years. There is an increase in the legal length of the insurance period for the minimum age pension for persons with disabilities by 10 years, respected colleagues. And for 10 years, there's an increase in the minimum age of retirement for people with disabilities. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to say a few words about what's on the bill and the committee's decision. The committee decided to send the bill for further work and to work on the real factors that would make the Ukrainian pension really a pension, not a social pay. A few words about the law of the national deputy Yatzenuk. I mean, that's what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m1.u48	Valeriy Mihajlovich, please, the committee's decision by two others is invaluable, only the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m1.u49	According to the Yatsenuk bill and the bill of the Pavlovski People's Deputy, the same decision on both bills is to send these bills for further work. In addition to the fact that both bills contain substantial positive developments in pension and social justice in pensions, the assignment, including the elimination of special pensions. Thank you for your attention. And I would like, with responsibility, to vote in favour of sending out all three drafts for further work. And to determine the real ways of reforming the pension system so that the pension in Ukraine is a pension. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m1.u50	Thank you. Please sign up for questions. It was Stanislaw Arzewittin who made a deal, made a deal. Arjevitina's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m1.u51	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your opportunity to speak. This must be in honor of his Jubilee. Thank you. But I wanted to ask the next question. In the pension systems of many countries, it is the accumulation of pension funds that play a key role because people have hopes for the state, but they also accumulate to take advantage of time. I'd like to set up a report for our, our small, these pension stockpiling funds aren't protected from inflation today. They are not protected from how they are placed in other assets, and this shows that they are not trusted. Please tell me, did your committee consider how to strengthen this trust, how to protect exactly this kind of accumulation of our Ukrainians at their retirement age?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m1.u52	Thank you for asking. I would like two aspects to be highlighted on this issue. The first, unfortunately, is today that the government has not worked on any factors that provide, well, financial and economic grounds for a cumulative system. You know, honourable colleagues, when a date is set, from a month like this, from a year like this, there's going to be a accumulation system, and I'm with you, dear colleagues, I absolutely agree that today, children are going to be spending somewhere on a accumulation system like that. It's going to be tens of billions of dollars, and kids are going to put them somewhere, and they're going to be able to provide mechanisms for diversification of savings. Undeveloped financial market. Today the third level of the stockpiling system, the non-state pension system is cumulative, it's actually very underdeveloped today, it could be a pilot project today to provide and implement.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m1.u53	Yes, and Steshenko Alexander, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m1.u54	Dear Valery Mikhailovich, thank you very much for both the committee and your personal efforts to deal with the so-called pension reform. It is clear, then, that so many questions have been left out of frame, and then beyond the attention of the national MPs. This raises a perfectly natural question. Please describe how fruitfully the committee has been able to organize cooperation with government officials, including Sergio Leonidovich Tihypk, who today presented a bill that is clearly not a reflection of social expectations? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m1.u55	Thank you. I've already noted that the committee has been working on all the proposals that came during parliamentary hearings that have identified the main shortcomings of the current government bill, and has set priorities for the discussions at parliamentary hearings that concern, first, the balance of the Pension Fund, the resources that could have been worked to fill the Pension Fund; to address the question of the dependency of pensions on wages and internships, the modernisation of pensions. To make a real pension not only this year, if the pensioner retired, but also in the coming years, to be a pension, not a result of inflation. I mean, unfortunately, there's a feeling that, for example, something that touches the political will to get wages out of the shadows, so far there's no government or government. And we are today.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m1.u56	Dear colleagues! Now we need to move on to the discussion. I'm asking you, first of all, 30 minutes for our discussion, to sign up for the factions. Please sign up for the factions. Yeah, we've got six factions. And now I'm asking you to sign up for the National MPs. Yes, the names of the national deputies. 30 minutes, take a good look, dear fellows. Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Sergey Shevchuk will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m1.u57	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Respectful colleagues, considering the subject as none other, require that without indignation, populism, pre-election sleepers, and a banal pianist approach the situation in the retirement sphere. Although the theme for the pianist is really, really beautiful, and how not to mention Ilf and Petrov, "And here the Ostap carried.".. So let us seriously and honestly ask ourselves: Is the present - day pension system satisfying the Ukrainian society? No, it's not. Do the current pensions of millions of Ukrainian citizens provide basic living standards? No, it's not. Is it fair that a 40-year-old teacher goes on the same pension as a cleaning lady at the same school? No, it's not. So the key problems that pension reform has to solve, which has been missing for many years in different governments for various reasons, are the following. First. Pensions will remain scarce as long as the salaries of working citizens are underpaid. In this regard, we have had to remind ourselves that we have repeatedly passed bills to raise the share of wages in the value of a unit of production. Sadly, we were not supported or supported, including those who demonstrate righteous anger today. The other one. The solidarity model of the pension system or the build-up model of the pension system in isolation on the one hand will not only ensure that the pension fund is filled to pay off the pensionable pension, but will not eliminate, on the one hand, the pension balance, on the other hand, the cynical and invisible gap between the minimum and maximum pensions in Ukraine. Third. The situation of a worker who has one pensioner leads to a deterioration of the pension system. At the same time, pension reform should not provide as much administrative as material incentives, economic motivations for a citizen to be interested in longer and more efficient work, and more workers. And to hide, your esteemed colleagues, the problems of an active pension system, waiting for the manna of the heavenly turn elections, this position is not state, it's the position of the political bulwarks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m1.u58	Dear colleagues! I just think we're confused. We're going to have an election in October 2012, it's not a election campaign. The discussion turned this into a campaign. Well, let's talk calmly, please. Sergey Shevchuk tells whom? Mikola Tomenko will come out of the faction. The next one will be the Chaplain.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m1.u59	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that the entire country has conducted a nationwide discussion on pension reform. And there's something I haven't heard that's the result of this discussion. I'll let you know. According to the U.S.-wide discussion of pension reform, the Ukrainian government trusts 17 percent, and it does not trust 75 percent. As a result of the review of pension reform, pension reform supports 3 percent, does not support 95 percent. As a scientist, I will tell you that reform is possible when reform is conducted by the authorities they trust and when society wants it. If there are no such two prerequisites, well, what kind of pension reform can we talk about? We've been waiting a year for the Prime Minister with the government to say what is the economic reform strategy of Ukraine. Waiting, waiting, will soon be retreating, or in the summer, or in the fall. If the government has not given the country’s development strategies, what pension reform can we make? In all civilized countries, pension reform is the result of real socio-economic reforms. Never a pension reform is the first, it is the last in a series of reforms. I want to ask, how many jobs have the government created in the last year? After the Tax Code, several tens of thousands of jobs were reduced in each area. Can pension reform be carried out if jobs are not created? We have a life expectancy of 13 to 14 years less than in Europe. What steps have been taken by the government to improve life expectancy? I'll tell you what's going on. For the first time in Ukraine's history of independence, no funds have been allocated for the development of mass sport, sports infrastructure for children, and child recovery. That's what it's like. Life expectancy can improve in the country? Today we're talking about the need to legalize the economy. What has the government done to legalize the economy? I'm informing you that according to sociological research, 49 percent of citizens say they know that people get paid in envelopes. 49 percent today is in the shade. What has been done to allocate funds to the budget, and the budget will change the situation accordingly? Ask the heads of district administration today how they stimulate the legal economy. I'm informing you that the legal economy is being stimulated by the fact that their businessmen don't pay taxes, they help solve their issues. Right now, we're in the Kyiv district of Water Formula. The Arab sheikhs will ride on millions of cars in the water. The governor says: "We took 80 million dollars from businessmen." How can you get 80 million dollars out of businessmen for a toy? That means they don't pay the budget. Governor of the Cherkas region. He didn't look well from the window, he started the repairs. He says, "We'll collect $4 million from businessmen." Why are they collecting from businessmen? You need to put it into your budget, not your toys. Can we say that it is lacking in the money budget when the governors gather for these toys? And most importantly, corruption. No pension reform can be carried out in a corrupt state. So the position is very simple. At first, European life expectancy, European wages, European fight against corruption, and then European retirement age.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m1.u60	Thank you. Chaplain, group "Reforms for the Future!".. Peter Simonenko will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m1.u61	Dear colleagues! Respectable citizens! Dear Ukrainians! Today, an emergency group meeting led by Igor Ribakov was held to discuss the faction's position on Bill 7455: on legislative measures to ensure the reform of the pension system. One and two drafts are also fully considered at a faction meeting. Clearly, Ukraine needs a deep pension reform based on justice, solidarity, and freedom. Obviously, the implementation of the pension reform is in the area of Ukraine’s national interests. Obviously, the contents of the pension reform project cannot and should not be influenced by any external factors other than the direct interests of 47 million Ukrainians. Therefore, in the name of Ukraine and for broad discussion, the parliamentary group of Reforms for the Future from the beginning of the week made a joint and consolidated decision only to include Bill 7455 one and two in the agenda of the day session and led to a broad discussion of the contents of the bill. I would like to point out that none of the three bills is systematic and does not have the right to be called reformist. We believe that the bill needs further analysis and work on its position, taking into account the positive experience of Germany, Sweden, France, England, Austria, where the two- and-three-level model of the pension system works successfully. At the same time, the House of Deputies for the Future can only support such a legislative initiative in the area of pension insurance, which is in line with the following principles. First, it is developed, and only then does the concept, which clearly describes the final product resulting from successful systemic reform, and only then does the law come into effect. Second, age, sex, or social status cannot affect the purpose of the pension and its size. Third, a system of solidarity should be governed by only one law. Fourth, the pension should depend solely on the size of the salary and the length of the employment. And the difference between a minimum pension and a maximum pension should be limited by law: no more than four times, for example. We should bear in mind that we have a social responsibility for the consequences of the changes in the pension system for modern and future generations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m1.u62	Peter Simonenko, Communist faction. Next will be from the faction of Dry Jaroslav, yes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m1.u63	Dear colleagues! Respectable voters! The Company's faction will not vote in favour of the draft regulation. And I explain what the faction of the Company is proposing in order to really, in fact, for the benefit of our voters to solve this problem. The first thing I want to do is keep my colleagues safe. Cynicism, which is demonstrated by individual speakers here, is indeed already leading to some kind of despair. How long will this madness continue that you declare here by being in the chair, saying one thing, going out to the rostrum, saying another when it's not in that chair. Second. I believe that we must be frank today to say that no reforms are involved. The interests of capital were once again in conflict with the interests of the State, that is, with the interests of the people. What should we do? First. To examine and re-examine why the system of social guarantees has been systematically destroyed over the years of independence. The Soviet system that had reached the Ukrainian people had virtually nothing left today. They put everything in their own pockets. Next. Pensioners won't get anything, and that's why. What should we do? First. Without the system as a whole, it is impossible to say that the interests of the common people will be resolved and protected. bourgeois democracy is the bulwark behind which the true interests of capital are hidden. Second. Today, it is necessary to review privatization and return the basic industries to public property as a basis for the protection of the rights of citizens to work, to wages, to a decent pension, to education and to medicine. Next. To renounce cooperation with the International Monetary Fund. It's an international high-road bandit. And, of course, no State has come out of the crisis on the International Monetary Fund's prescriptions. To review cooperation with the World Trade Organization, for the World Trade Organization is already destroying our domestic Ukrainian producer. Next. Of course, serious action must be taken today to restore the State's price control system. Because we're talking about a pension, we sign the pension security papers with one hand, and the other hand we're handing out the pensioner's pockets, because we're taking out the last of the rates, the tariffs and the other. Therefore, I would like to ask you once again, distinguished colleagues, not to comply with the requirements of the International Monetary Fund. This very serious destruction will bring authority and power to our people, of course. And the last. I would like to draw your attention once again, comrades, to the fact that Mr. Tighip must be retired -- and at this point put a point in the experiments in retirement.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m1.u64	Jaroslav Suhi, faction of the Party of the Regions. Jaroslav Kenzier will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m1.u65	Dear colleagues! I'll be honest, I'm sorry. I am very sorry that instead of working properly to continue reforming the pension system, we turned the session hall into a branch for a little fool. It's very sad that the opposition comes down to the heat, the screams, the hysterics, the acting of common sense, the voice accusations, the words, the words, the words, the declarations, the declarations, the declarations. There were no real opportunities and opportunities to reform the social system, to reform the pension system. It was as if all of this had not been fucked up and extinguished in words. There's one big positive. The positive is that we've finally turned social attention and social attention to the fact that we have an enormously dangerous, catastrophic impact in the population pension system. Several figures: 13.8 million retirees, 13.7 million pensioners contribute to the Pension Fund to the solidarity system 14.4 27 million working people, 21 million economically active people -- clearly both ageing and demographics, and this has been talked about more than once in this session room. And for the sake of justice, let me remind you: 2008-2009, trying to correct the situation in the solidarity pension system at the time. The solidarity pension crisis is not in Ukraine -- it's a global crisis -- but if other states have come to their senses in the '80s or '90s, we're moving forward, we're shoving on the ground. I want to tell you something. Don't we understand that the pension system is unfair? We understand that this is not equal to the terms of retirement. Don't we understand that people with economic education who can't raise their pension costs at an early pace compared to economic opportunities? Of course we do. We are also concerned about the extremely low level of employment participation in pension insurance. And one more thing, colleagues. 80 euros minimum, 100 euros average pension in Ukraine. We're losing mass demand, we're losing motivation for the internal market, and we're not fighting anything in the European Union, we're not going to be there. And finally. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I would like to invite today all Ukrainian national deputies who feel politically responsible to join in drafting legislation to reform the pension system. And I ask you to pass the law on to the second reading, if we vote in the first reading, to the Committee on Social Policy and Labour.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m1.u66	Viacheslav Kirilenko's right address is given to Jaroslav Kendzior, the faction of "Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense". Sergey Teryochin instead of Bodnar and Rybeka will be next. Six minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m1.u67	Viacheslav Kirilenko. Party "For Ukraine!".. Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! The bill has been introduced, but unfortunately it gives little. These are the specialties that so many people talk about in the country, they stay, and there are 29 laws that are now regulated by pension legislation. Not alone will be the law, but there will still be 29 and a whole bunch of different specialties. There was a vice-premier here and he was talking about limitations -- 7,640. I don't think he believes what he's saying. Since he remembers, he knows, and is reminded, there is a decision by the Constitutional Court that is clearly forbidden. Colleagues from the Party of the Regions have repeatedly referred to this decision and have already told us that we can't cancel the pension, we can't limit it -- whatever we have to do, but don't touch it. And this law does not determine this egregious social justice, but it continues. Next. Do current pensioners get any extras, anything else? No, it's not. The government only made changes to the budget two days ago – without discussion, in fact, they were carried out. So there's money like there were retirees now, and that's what they're going to do. So this is a big negative. Or will something be the future? It is so clear that it will not be 25 but 35 for men. For 10 years, in fact, people steal -- confiscation pension reform. It's not 20 years for women, it's 30 years. Not 55 years of retirement, 60 for women. Not 60 for individual categories of men, but 62. The pension formula is not the average salary for the last year, but so that there is less pension in the last three years. And the figure is already much smaller -- the average wage and the future pension. Yes, where are the benefits to future pensioners? And this stockpiling fund? Do we have all the economic conditions? How does the government feel about introducing it, and from what basis do these future pensioners, who are now going to be able to accumulate these funds for 30 to 35 years? Of these coins, out of the 1.5 thousand dollars of wages that young people are getting right now. And the investment income of these non-state pension structures that are going to make money on this? Will he be enough for those future pensioners? And in what kind of assets is the government going to invest here, the foreign money here, in the accumulation system? Will these future pensioners be able to see this money back here in Ukraine -- will they be lost as much as they were before with these trusts and non-state pension funds? I mean, future pensioners, as my colleague Yatzenuk said, "Three-fingered figure." That's why, dear fellows, there's no reform here. The government solves its problems at the expense of the common people, continues to enrich itself, and does not refuse anything. We vote "red" for the government's green button for the opposition bills.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m1.u68	Yes, Sergey Teryohin, six minutes. Gregory Smythech will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m1.u69	Good evening, dear colleagues. In six minutes, it's very difficult to talk about the projects that are being presented today. But, well, let's get started. It seems to me that Azarov did not read Emmanuel Kant. Why, can you say that he did not read the charges? One of Kanta's sensations is, "Death of dogma gives birth to reality." Why is Kant here for pension reform? Let's see, let me explain on my fingers. Does the Ukrainian community need a pension reform? Absolutely. Anomalously, when nearly 13.5 million pensioners are to depend on the supply of nearly 15 million active workers. Is there a need for Ukrainian society to say that apriors cannot be called reform by the government? We're offered cosmetics to repair the stalemate solidarity system, which has spread widely. By the way, for the record, under Hitler and Mussolini's regimes, and then it was "leaned" by communists, socialists and other experimenters over the people, the theory of a solidarity pension insurance works when birth exceeds the death rate when the labour force increases. Management, ow! Look at the demographics before passing some kind of law. Who gets a jackpot from the government's pension money? I dare say that the winners will be exclusively rich people. The pension fund will be a reserve for the slaves of the oligarchs. Let's follow the logical order. Question: "Why does the government want to change pension reform?" Answer: The change is required by the currency fund as a precondition for the next loan, IMF funds will go into the currency reserve of Ukraine and will be used for non-breakable payments to foreign creditors. Yesterday, the ruling majority failed the law on blocking Cyprus’s offshore. This means that the IMF loan will also go towards the tax-free payment of dividends from Ukrainian companies for the benefit of their Cypriot or offshore owners. Questions. And who loses as a result of this pension money? The answer. All the hired workers, as well as their children. Existing pensioners are also affected. In 2010, nearly 35 billion dollars were allocated from the State budget to cover the pension deficit. This year's 11. 18, I'm sorry. This does not mean that the pension deficit has decreased. This means that attention to pensioners has fallen. Now let's try to break some dogmas on Kant. Dogma first. Women live longer men for 11 years in our country and retire early for 5. "A mess," says the government, "women need to raise their retirement age." Mr. Tihypco speaks of the equal constitutional rights of men and women. How many women do we have in Parliament? 35 in my head, right? That's 7 and a half percent of those who sit here. So who's gonna hear them here?Oh, my God! But the average women’s solidarity pension is less than a third of the male pension! Why did this happen? Simply after a specific leave to work, a woman does not take into account the time to care for her children. Homework is hard. And to raise children, a woman must be a mother, a cleaning woman, and a psychologist at the same time! Really? Is that what they pay for? No, it's not. Sergey Leonidovich, please tell me, who's pressing your socks? Well, it's obviously not your wife. And you tell me, do you pay the maids a salary and contributions to the Pension Fund? Maybe if you pay, it's designed to be one of the managers of your multiple companies. But if it's designed, I suggest you look at, among other things, the law on prejudice of corruption, signed just by Yanukovich. You referred to article 24 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the first sentence of which speaks of equality of citizens. But I'll give you some pink glasses. In paragraph 3 of this article, the Constitution states that equality of rights between women and men is also achieved by the provision of pension benefits for women, for women! Look at the Constitution.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m1.u70	Thank you. Thank you. Gregory Smythech, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m1.u71	Thank you, Volodymyr Mikhailovich! A few words, seeing whether we need a pension reform today or not. Each of you and every citizen of Ukraine will say that reform is needed and the country needs to eventually return to the pensioners face-to-face. And so it can't go on, because there's so much injustice. And there's a lot said here and there's a lot in the pension plan, as long as there's a minimum pension, there's a maximum pension, and it's a very large breakup, and there's no such breakup in any country of the world. And that's why the country has to do something. And unfortunately, speaking here, offering or criticizing today's government, I want to say, what prevented you from meeting people, five or seven steps in 2005 to meet people who had been bugged at the Maidan? What prevented you from creating 5 million jobs in five years and ensuring that the government budget came at the expense of jobs, at the expense of the contributions that prevented it? Over the past five years, 5 million places have been created abroad, and there are increasing production capacity, there are increasing pensions, and not going to our execution. And so it happened that in our country, the population is declining, and the workload on the Pension Fund is increasing. And the state is forced to do what? If you do not understand what we need to do, please look at Greece, see Portugal, Spain, and other countries. And the country can't do any more. Another question: How, with what approaches? And this is the subject of our discussion, and this is a collective mind to discuss this issue between the first and the second readings and to make a consolidated decision in order to provide as much as possible for those who need help today. I agree that 700 dollars is not a pension; I agree that you cannot live for that pension, and that you have to change that pension. But I'm against the fact that by speaking out here for five years in public office, putting two years on all the boards across Ukraine during the electoral process, saying that "my declaration is clean," that "I only live for a living." Where did the money come from? Where were taxes paid, including to the Pension Fund? Where did this money come from if one board stands at 5,000 a month during the electoral process? Where is the question? The hypocrisy you have to face is that when you're in a chair, you don't see this problem when you're out of a chair, you're criticizing the government that asks you to do it. Why didn't you take on the problem? Because this problem is difficult, it's difficult, it's unpopular. And we have to pay what is due because the government, though capable, is capable of solving this issue, not just criticizing it by sitting in a chair for five years. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m1.u72	Yes, Helen Schustik, last performance. I'm going to propose then to continue, now I'm going in time. Is there a shustik? Microphone, please. Ah, helmet. Yes, I was approached by Shustik, who said that Schlemko was going to perform. I'm sorry. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m1.u73	Respectable compatriots! Today's conversation in the session room is like one of the literary characters who always had one answer for all the questions: "I don't believe." So today, and with the pension reform that the government has been making in the labour groups for more than six months, it tells about its position, and they are told in response how sociology confirms that no one believes that this reform today is for people. Legally, when a bill is put forward for consideration, the question arises, "What is the purpose of this bill?" And today's government's answer is very simple: "Money, money and more money." The question is, if it's for people, is it good? Yes. What if it's from people? Clearly not. And today the question is, to whom? I specifically took it as a front-line press release saying, "Azarov has opened up his million-dollar income. He's got almost 19 million in Klewa's accounts. My colleagues earned 164 million a year. Tihypko also showed his millions." Tell me, please, this government that has passed this law as a multimillionaire today, it cares for those who today, investing in the state, and invested before, building its independence, will think about its old age. No, they already have a million. Of course, those who have coins today count them. So today it is clear and clear that this reform cannot be what the government has proposed. There must be one today in the upper parts of the nation. And I want to conclude with an answer, can we continue to have it today, what is being done today? The answer is simple: Today the Ukrainian people are being subjected to a terrible social experiment. Who will be responsible for this experiment? The answer is simple: Those who press the "Z" button today are for the government bill. The one who votes will expect and be accountable to the people tomorrow.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m1.u74	Dear National Deputies! The time for discussion of the bill is over. At the same time, demands and suggestions continue to be made for further discussion. You can do that. Wait a minute! This can only be done by the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, since the standard is exhausted. I am voting on the proposal to continue the discussion on the proposed bills. Please identify yourself. [[17:35:26]] For-51 The decision is not supported, unfortunately. Dear National Deputies! Now we need to move on to making the right decision. Ladies and gentlemen, may I have a word with you? Is the pension problem overgrown? Everyone here definitely said yes. Do we have what is proposed in the three bills? I think the answer is no. We can continue to compete with you in political exercises, to blame each other gracefully, but I think the responsibility lies with all of us, for not all of us have come into power today, and I am convinced that. You see, we should not be adept at the practice of criticizing and at the same time scratching the five authorities and taking the money to the oligarchs for it. It's time to criticize them at work. I think we need to translate the conversation more seriously, and we obviously understand what this is about. But it seems that, fellow believers, we have become so involved in political disputes that we do not want to be serious about speaking and making serious decisions and taking serious responsibility. We think the problem will solve itself. We've hired you, respected colleagues, social benefits that aren't loaded, 160 billion dollars, and we need to think about how to dig up these laws. Dear colleagues, at the same time, I am convinced that there are numerous violations in the proposed bills, including government bills. Because if you're going to take those options, these laws, you have to cancel the Constitution. I'm convinced that we're the only ones with you, my dear colleagues, convinced that we're the only ones with you, that we're trying to adapt to the situation by law, not to correct the situation. I mean the Supreme Council, including first and foremost. So, dear colleagues, do we need to determine what pension reform is for? To raise pensions for people, not to try to lead everyone to poor people. So I propose that, honourable colleagues, it is now a responsibility to go to the point of deciding on one of the bills and voting perhaps with disgust. But then to organize serious committee work, serious committee work, and our board of directors to offer the Supreme Council. There are two alternatives: the first is to accept what the government has proposed, with archival letters in the introductory part, to write the drafters. We'll get political satisfaction, that's all. Dear colleagues, there's a second option: to make our vision together and adopt a law that has a high condition. I suggest we go the other way. Dear colleagues. What? [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, Tihypak had a replica called his last name. Please, Sergey Tihypco.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m1.u75	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies, you know, we can find a thousand reasons not to adopt the Pension Reform Act. We can talk about new jobs, and we promised a lot. And really, in five years, we wanted to create 5 million jobs. Finally, in our ninth year alone, we lost 978 thousand such jobs. We can talk about legalization. But in the last five years, we haven't passed a single law. During this time, Portugal, Spain, and the Czech Republic made such a decision. We can talk about social injustice, but until now, almost one of the few countries in Europe that has no maximum pension limit is Ukraine. In a poor country. And I have one question: who pays for all of this in the end. I can tell you, he's paying a specific pensioner. Because if you look at it, Estonia is 306 euros, Poland is 315 euros, Slovakia is 352 euros, Ukraine is 104. [[middle pension]] So I think we need to take this option. I can say that I've learned practically the experience of European countries, which is one of the softest ways to carry out pension reform. And other things. What's next? In June, the Ministry of Social Policy submits a bill to the Cabinet of Ministers on the modernisation of pensions. It's about modernity. We will insist that some 10 million Ukrainians take pensions seriously. And we already have these calculations. The second position is legalization. In September, I'm going to come back to you and report on a comprehensive approach to the legalization of wages. Third. As far as pension legislation is concerned, level two. We should make adjustments by the end of the year. To the second level, to really protect the investment profit for our former pensioners, to limit the possible earnings on these brokers' money. I think it's this complex approach that we're going to be able to improve the situation for our pensioners. And the last. I understand that there are certain moments of violation of the Constitution because there were already constitutional conclusions of the Constitutional Court. I want to say that the government will not insist if this rule is changed between the first and the second readings. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m1.u76	Dear National MPs, in accordance with the Rules and the time of registration, I will consistently put bills to the vote. I am voting on the draft law, i.e. the government, on the legislative measures for the reform of the pension system. [[Registration number 7455]] [[7455]] I'd like to vote for each of you on your own. [[17:42:35.]] For 245 Decision taken. The factions, please. Region Party – 187, "BUT – "Patkaščina" – 0, "Our Ukraine - National Self-Defense" – 13, communists – 0, "Reforms for the Future" – 15, National Party – 20, "Afterfaction" – 10. Dear colleagues, a few organizational questions. We continue our evening session for 15 minutes. And now the announcement for the political discharge. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine and articles 59 and 60 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I report the departure of the Ukrainian National Deputy Borisov Valerija Dmitrovic from the deputy faction "Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense" and its membership in the MP's Party of the Regions. And another organizational question. Dear colleagues, we need to include in the agenda a bill amending article 17-1 of the Ukrainian Electricity Act. [[on conditions for stimulating the production of electricity from alternative sources]] [[Registration number 8231]] Please vote. [[17:44:03]] For 280 Decision taken. Two factions, the faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense" and the faction "Timoshenko's Yulia"- "Father's" demand a recess and a declaration. Please, Mikola Martinenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m1.u77	Dear fellow citizens! Dear colleagues! Today, the authorities are making a "reform" against the Ukrainian people, which will strike hard against today's and tomorrow's pensioners. [[in quotes]] Millions of people are sentenced to a beggarly pension, and many will not live to see it at all. The representatives of the authorities and the members of the Party of the Regions themselves acknowledged that the so-called pension reform did not withstand any criticism. But there is a great need for the International Monetary Fund’s next loan. All the so-called reforms are made exclusively at the expense of the people -- you go into the pockets of the citizens to cover the billions of holes in the budget that they made themselves. The government resembles the shy "blue gun" from the novel of Ilf and Petrova, which is very embarrassing, but stole from his trusted old grandmothers and fed the entire family. We are well aware that the collapse of reforms, including pension, is a matter for the government as a whole. But in the case of pension reform, there is a direct performer and an ideologist -- this is Deputy Prime Minister Sergei Tihypco, who has developed such an impeccable and harmful project that Kabdin was forced to recall him from parliament, who is so afraid for the remainder of his rating, that he blackmailed him with his resignation. And if the vast majority do not have the political will to get rid of the entire government right away, let's move on. I therefore appeal to the presiding officer to consider immediately the draft regulation 8555, registered by me, on the referral of the Supreme Council to the President of Ukraine on the resignation of Deputy Prime Minister Tihypak from office because of non-professionalism and the failure of the government's socio-economic policies. However, the committee responsible for the draft regulation has already considered it. I refer to the parliamentary majority: it is necessary to gain political courage and admit obvious personnel mistakes. Although the direct executioner and the perpetrator must be punished for robbing old people. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m1.u78	Dear National Deputies! I would like to announce the question: a report by the Interim Investigation Commission on the investigation of the circumstances of the signing of the NAC "Naftogaz Ukraine" and VAT "Gazprom" on the existence of signs of State betrayal in the area of Ukraine's economic security. The reporter is the head of the TSK of theological Inna Hermanovna. Dear colleagues, the following rules are proposed: up to 20 minutes for the report, 10 minutes for the answers to questions. If the Supreme Council deems it necessary to hold a discussion, then a separate decision must be taken. Please, Inna Hermanovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m1.u79	Thank you. Dear colleagues, today I have the honour to report the results of the work of the Temporary Investigation Commission on the signs of treason in the actions of Prime Minister Timoshenko during the signing of the "gas contracts" in January 2009. First of all, I want to say that everything you see is based solely on documents. This principle was voted by the commission and accepted as a basis. We don't take into account any rumors, any media publications, any information other than official documents. So all I'm going to talk about right now is documented facts. So, the first question we studied was whether Prime Minister Timoshenko had the legislative right to issue directives and to give orders to the head of Naftogazu Dubini to sign discriminatory treaties for Ukraine. We have found that the Constitution of Ukraine allows officials to act exclusively within and in a manner provided for by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine. And the power of the Prime Minister of Ukraine does not include the issuance of directives. Such competence is provided by the Cabinet of Ministers only for the Cabinet of Ministers as a collegiate body. Thus, only during the Cabinet could a directive be adopted. On January 19, 2009, at a meeting of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, which was urgently convened in addition to the first Vice-Prime Minister of Turkey, an absolute majority of the Cabinet of Ministers refused to vote in favour of directives and to maintain a discriminatory condition for Ukraine for gas contracts. Despite this, Timoshenko in Moscow signed a paper that she called "directives." This paper was stamped with a coat of arms by the Cabinet of Ministers, a violation of the position on the coat of arms seal of the Cabinet of Ministers, and thus Timoshenko pressed on the head of "Ukrainian Naftogaza". The head of Naftogazu Ukraine, Dubina, who led to the gas negotiations, knew quite well that on October 2, 2008, a memorandum had been signed between the governments of the Russian Federation and Ukraine, which set out the parameters of "gas contracts". The Timoshenko directives, which she signed on a single basis, completely destroyed the conditions that were reached during the negotiations between the governments responsible for resolving the issue. First. In a memorandum of October 2, governments made a written agreement that the price of gas would be marketable. At the same time, even a member of the Cabinet of Ministers, the first Deputy Prime Minister of Turkey at the meeting on January 19th and all members of the Cabinet of Ministers found that the price of 450 was not market but political. For these reasons, the head of Naftogazu, Dubina, refused to sign such agreements. Thus, the market price was replaced by a political price. The other one. According to a memorandum signed between governments, on October 2, 2008, the price of gas was to be linked to the price of transit. So in the event of a gas price rise, there was going to be a price rise for transit. It didn't happen. And Timoshenko's directives have also ruined the agreements reached intergovernmentally. And the third. According to the memorandum, the transition to market prices for Ukraine was set at three years. While Timoshenko’s directives set this term for 1 year. Thus, Timoshenko exceeded her authority, her service authority. And as a result, the state of Ukraine and the general interests of Ukrainian society have suffered losses, which experts say are already more than 3.5 billion dollars. This piece of evidence has been thoroughly investigated. And the temporary commission on this issue was clearly defined as Timoshenko was out of power. And the Attorney General's Office today, in fact today, June 16 is closing the case, and we hope that tomorrow it will go to trial. But we also studied other circumstances that now give us reason to believe that the Supreme Council was right to ask about possible signs of treason in the actions of Timoshenko. Last night, we received a document that was very important in confirming that Timoshenko had a personal, private interest in interfering with the gas negotiations that contradicted the interests of the Ukrainian State and society. We have received a response from the Ministry of Defence of Russia, according to which companies belonging to Mrs. Timoshenko and her family are the only energy systems in Ukraine and the Bosphorus Trade House have a debt that has not been repaid today, but is recognised in the amount of $405 million is about half a billion dollars that Timoshenko personally owed to the Ministry of Defence of Russia. Under such conditions, democratically, in a government where there is a conflict of interest, the Prime Minister must make a public statement and withdraw from the negotiating process. It wasn't done. And perhaps this was the reason why Timoshenko pressured to sign a preconceived agreement for Ukraine. The second basis proved to be true today. We received a response from the Attorney General's Office of Russia, according to which Timoshenko is guilty of Russian legislation in bribes to senior officials on several occasions. We have a document from the Attorney General's Office of Russia that the criminal case against Timoshenko has been violated for repeatedly giving bribes to officials of the Ministry of Defence of Russia and allegedly closed at the end of the term of criminal prosecution, which means, according to the Russian Attorney General's Office and Russian criminal legislation, that Timoshenko is guilty of bribery. Today, we have further addressed the Russian Attorney General's Office with a request, with a proposal and a requirement on the basis of the Treaty of Legal Relations between Russia and Ukraine, to provide us with a copy of Timoshenko's written consent to close the criminal case against her, because closure under these circumstances is non-rehabilitative and requires that the accused person agree to close the case under non-rehabilitative circumstances. We are looking forward to this document, and if we do get it, we will have absolute proof that Timoshenko had a criminal dependence on the Russian authorities at the time of the signing of the gas contracts. Next. We've been given reasonable evidence that the only power systems in Ukraine exist to this day. As Mrs. Timoshenko headed the government, an attempt was made to illegally eliminate EESA as a butterfly company, by the way, just like the company Bosphorus now, which also has debts to the Ministry of Defence of Russia, is now in a state of liquidation. What's interesting is that she made claims to the court about the liquidation and the "One Energy Systems" and the "Bosfor" tax administration of the city of Dnipropetrovska, a structure that was directly subordinated to Prime Minister Timoshenko. To date, the illegal court’s decision to eliminate EESU has been annulled by a projector’s protest. And as for the elimination of Bosphorus, we're doing extra work to determine who did it and how it worked and whether it was within the framework of the law. We also want to say that we were able to examine the promissory notes that were written. We've done what we've done to explore the fictitious bills that were written by NAC Naftogaz Ukraine for the benefit of Timoshenko's private company Bosphorus. These bills were fictitious, they were written in violation of the law, and they were set as collateral for the duties of Timoshenko EESU before the Ministry of Defence of Russia. This allowed Russia to seek private debt from the state structure of Naftogaz Ukraine for many years. We're also looking at a multi-year correspondence now that says "powers," trying to turn Timoshenko's private debt into the government debt of Ukraine. And even treat Timoshenko's private debts for the rent of the Black Sea military base. These are all documents. It's not all our imagination. Next. Today, it is very important that this report responds to the truthfulness of all the speeches made by Prime Minister Timoshenko. I'll even give you paper from 11.03. March 11, 2011, or just now. Ms. Timoshenko stated at her press conference that "and secondly, there is no EESU debt to Russia at all." This statement was made in March 2011, and now, in June 2011, we have received written confirmation from the Ministry of Defence under the signature of Russian Defence Minister Serdukov, that the debt owed to Timoshenko and not repaid to date amounts to $405 million. We also have repeated statements by Timoshenko that EESU does not work and does not exist. We have received help from the Dnipropetrovské District Statistical Office, according to which EESU still exists and leads it as our leader with you as our colleague, the distinguished national deputy, Dmitry Vetwicky, who, in violation of the law, combines the duties of the head of the "Only Energy Systems" company today with the duties of the Ukrainian National Deputy. This fact is also being studied. Mr. Vetwicki did not appear on many occasions for an invitation to attend a temporary commission of inquiry. In addition, we have learned that today we need to be very critical of what we call the fight against offshores. Because it's Timoshenko, members of her family, the only energy systems in Ukraine, and also the company Bosphorus Trade House, founded by the Cyprus offshore company owned by Mrs. Timoshenko and her husband. This is well documented. Next. We have found documents that are a direct confirmation of the Prime Minister's special relationship with Russia's highest officials. [[Not the Prime Minister, but Mrs. Timoshenko, and in 1997 already the National Deputy Timoshenko.]] We have a letter signed by Prime Minister Lazarenko, with whom he addressed Prime Minister Chernomyrdin of Russia, in which he proposed to make a draft of the Russian budget for the company, which was determined by the government of Ukraine, namely the company "The Only Energy Systems of Ukraine" that belonged to Mrs. Timoshenko and her family. [[EESU]] And thanks to this scheme, because of the accounts of EESU and the United Energy company, which is registered in London and also belongs to Timoshenko and its family members, it was conducted under one scheme of $250 million through the Russian Federation's budget accounts, through the Ministry of Finance, the Treasury of the Russian Federation, Gazprom, the Ministry of Defense. And that made it a private debt to EESU before Gazprom, converted into a private debt from EESU to the Ministry of Defense. So in two operations -- one by 250 million exiles, the other by $200 million -- debt before Gazprom was replaced by debt to the Ministry of Defence of Russia. Thus, debts between the two owners were converted into debts owed by the Ukrainian host entity to the state of Russia. And it was in 1997 that Russia began to demand from Ukraine private debt for the Single Energy Systems. For the last time, the Ministry of Defence appealed to the Naftogaz of Ukraine, a state-owned company, demanding to repay the debts of EESU on July 1, 2009. So all of Timoshenko's claims that she would be reminded of school and portfolio, and that there is no relationship between EESU and debt now, even this fact is being broken down, not only by the Ministry of Defence's response, but also by the official request of the Ministry of Defence through the Embassy of the Russian Federation in Ukraine on July 1, 2009, that NAC Naftogaz be counted on by fictitious notes written in the provision of private campaigns by Timoshenko. Next. We have evidence that a huge number of officials, including Naftogazu Ukraine, were trying to account for Timoshenko's private debts during the administration of Timoshenko. And it's being further explored. So three facts of the 405 million debt that exists, a criminal case that is closed two years before it allows criminal legislation in Russia, fictitious vestiges of millions of dollars in private debt to Timoshenko shows that at the moment that Timoshenko was able to sign discriminatory agreements for Ukraine, she had private interests in Russia that were in direct conflict with the interests of the Ukrainian State. In the report you will find a comparative table of gas prices in Europe and Ukraine, including transit prices. This table shows that if we didn't get a $100 discount per 1,000 cubic meters in Kharkiv contracts, today we would have paid an average $50 higher price than in Germany, Italy and France. So again today we're proving that the base price of 450 was political, economically unfounded, which certainly allows the Ukrainian authorities today to have serious and strong negotiations with the Russian Federation to review gas contracts. I very much hope that the whole Parliament will be the only one that we propose to support in the decision to appeal to all senior officials of the state: to the Cabinet of Ministers, to the President, to the Attorney General's Office, to the BSS, to strengthen control over the implementation of the Constitution and the laws of all Ukrainian officials. Because the TSC is absolutely clear: if there was control over the actions of Timoshenko, Ukraine would not have as terrible, from an economic and political point of view, a gas contract as we now have. But it was allowed by the then authorities to outdo their service powers, to do open authoritarian interference in democratic processes. Tymoshenko violated all the democratic principles of Kabmin’s activity, which are laid down in article 3 of the Kabmin Act, that he is collegiate, open, transparent. The negotiations she was conducting were secret. And in fact, as a result, 46 million Ukrainians are now paying the price for failing to control the actions of senior officials in Ukraine. Thank you. Please support the decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m1.u80	Dear colleagues, questions. Sign up for questions. Well, then, if there's any mood, let's make a statement, but I don't see any problems. Stepanenko, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m1.u81	Please pass the word to Chechtovo.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m1.u82	Mikhailo Chechetov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m1.u83	Honourable Inna Hermanovna, the report contains a decree to violate the Russian Federation’s Chief Military Prosecutor’s Office of Criminal Procedure against Citizen Timoshenko Yuliy Volodymyrovina on the basis of the crime envisaged in part three of article 33 of the Russian Federation Criminal Code and the organization to bribe an official for committing illegal acts, omissions or repeated acts. You know, there's different versions on the Internet, different versions. And perhaps the public wants to hear from your mouth, as a person who is politically unattractive, a person who always protects the national interests of Ukraine, a person who always stands in public positions, answer one question. Since society wants to know, not from the Internet, but from a competent commission, especially from you, as I repeat, from a politically unattractive MP, why has Timoshenko repeatedly bribed officials of the Russian Federation's Ministry of Defence?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m1.u84	Thank you. In the report itself, we have ordered Timoshenko to be charged for organizing multiple bribes to officials of the Ministry of Defence. [[page 17 of the report]] The decree was adopted on September 13, 2004. And according to this decree, all the episodes are directly described when Timoshenko organized and instructed his subordinate, a representative in Moscow, to bribe the officials of the Ministry of Defense. I want to draw your attention to what these bribes were for. Russian officials were bribed to give their consent to overpriced products delivered on contracts from Timoshenko. What were the contracts for? Timoshenko EESU purchased products from Ukrainian enterprises either at a cost or 20-25 per cent less than its cost. Here's the product.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m1.u85	Finish up, please, 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m1.u86	This product was then transmitted to two offshore companies, Timoshenko, Cyprus, Samuel Interprises and Coral. And from these companies, it was sold to the Ministry of Defence with prices at some positions of 424 per cent. This is a fact established by the Public Prosecutor's Office.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m1.u87	Thank you. Valery Bondick, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m1.u88	Dear Inno Germanically, please tell me, do you know how a lawyer is required by the Criminal Procedure Code on the relativity and permissibility of evidence? This letter you mentioned in your report is a letter from the Ministry of Defense or in accordance with the requirements of the external relations of the MlD note. That's the first one. And secondly, if Julia Volodymyrna was involved in a criminal case where two of them were convicted there or three Russian generals, they probably had their period of punishment, how is she not an accomplice? Was there a reaction from the Russian prosecutor's office and an appeal to the Ukrainian prosecutor's office? That's the second question. And the third is short. So how were the Cuban and EESU debts written down because of the courts? If it is through the courts, ask for disciplinary guidance regarding these judges who have unmotivatedly written off their debts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m1.u89	Thank you. I'm showing you because on the Internet today, it's said that even we forged Serdyukov's signature. This is the original response from the Ministry of Defense, the original signature of the Minister of Defense of Serdukov. This answer is due to the involvement of both the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine, because the Ministry of Defence has not responded to our several appeals. We've done a huge job involving experts and the Attorney General's Office of Ukraine, and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and we've got it through the diplomatic mail of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. As for the second question, "Why isn't Timoshenko a performer?" This is a question that we are studying further. We still haven't gotten two copies of the original documents. We don't have an answer from the Russian prosecutor's office, as was Timoshenko's statement, where she had to admit her bribe and give her consent to complete the case under non-rehabilitative circumstances. We're waiting on it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m1.u90	Complete the answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m1.u91	And the second. Today, we do not have the very decision to close the case. We only have an answer from the Attorney General's Office, which is why this was done. That's why we're gonna keep working. And I'm sure if we really find confirmation, that's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m1.u92	Thank you. Laschenka, the Communist faction. Candlestick. I'm sorry. Lechenko Volodymir.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m1.u93	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company, Montenegro. Inna Hermanovna, I read carefully the preliminary report of the interim commission of inquiry. From its contents, we can really agree that there have been excesses of authority and official powers on the part of Prime Minister Timoshenko. Well, you said the D.A.'s office is now in charge, and they'll be looking into it. It's their business. But I'm interested. I wonder what the next question is. The Orange Government approved those agreements that were reached and signed in Moscow. This time. That's different. President Yushchenko was watching from the side. There was the Ukrainian Security Service and the Attorney General's Office. Whether the commission intends to further expand its consideration of this issue to determine whether the persons who have been inactive have been involved in this issue are still involved in this and have shown inactivity. the answer to that question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m1.u94	Thank you. The cynicism of the situation is that, really, understanding that Timoshenko was out of power, along with the first Vice-Prime Minister of Turkey, they were able to seem to approve the outcome of the negotiations during the government meeting on 21 January 2009. But we specifically gave you a transcript of the government meeting on January 21, 2009, which clearly shows that Timoshenko sold a decision that was taken for absence from government members of any document. I'll read it to you, we brought it in the report. Vasjunik, Vice Prime Minister says: "I have no questions. I think that if we have to discuss the decisions we make in detail, then we need to discuss the details. Can you at least see the documents -- and then talk in fact? Right, the question is, what is it? What do we approve of? Contracts that are not available to the government?" I mean, during the time.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m1.u95	Thank you. Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m1.u96	I'd like to ask you a question. On January 21st, there was a fictitious confirmation of the results because no member of the government except those involved in the negotiations, that is, Timoshenko and the Minister of Fuel and Energy.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m1.u97	Thank you. Turkey, please, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m1.u98	Please pass the word to Stoyan Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m1.u99	Alexander Stoyan, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m1.u100	I don't know if they've seen such an interesting detail. In other words, five minutes later, when strong arguments were put out, one writer-activist from BUTU suddenly started collecting cash on the dry land to his patroness. He realized that shame, her lid, everything. At least she'll get some sushi in her way. I have a question. First of all, it's a very strong performance. Not politicized. Qualified. Prove it. And really, when Ukrainian citizens heard this talk, they'll finally understand who this lady really is. He hasn't collected a penny yet. Who is this lady who has really done such great miracles by being in power? In other words, I have a question. Whether you are ready or how it will be done to have your materials attached to the investigation conducted in the Timoshenko case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m1.u101	Once again, I want everyone to find out what the situation is. What has been established actually confirms the criminal offence, which under Ukrainian law is a serious crime — the excess of power and official authority, which has led to severe consequences. This crime involves a penalty of 7 to 10 years of imprisonment for depriving them of their right to take office. But this does not end with the work of the Interim Investigation Commission. Our task is to examine facts that can testify to treason. So to this day, the issue of overcoming power goes to trial, and what we do is much worse and worse for the country even than the criminal case that goes to trial today.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m1.u102	One last question. Nadisha, please, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m1.u103	Inna Hermanovna, I myself am a member of the TSC, and I saw those documents myself, I saw those officials who reported to us on this committee. I'm sure the documentary base is enough to make it clear that there's actually been a crime in the country. The question to you, but it's no longer a question, it's a suggestion: to make some materials that will be available not only to us MPs and parliamentarians, but to put them in the press so that people can get to know each other. Some short statements, some short extensions, some materials that will give us a sense of why we have this cost of gas today, and why we don't have 130, not $135 per thousand cubes, but 400, and now there's a threat of 500. So I would ask you to organize this document and make these gadgets that you put in the press. It's just a wish.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m1.u104	Thank you. In general, it's Parliament's job to make any information public. So I thank you very much, and we will do so. I'd like to say to the Ukrainian society today what we talked about at TSC: we got documents that allowed us to see everything naked. And we know that in society, different people are different to Mrs. Timoshenko, and in this room they are different. So we have not made any assumptions, we give facts and only facts. And we give each person the opportunity to look at it for themselves, and to make their own assessment. And we will make sure that any Ukrainian citizen can get this reliable information and draw his own conclusions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m1.u105	Thank you. Time's up, please sit down. Dear colleagues! Come on, since there's so I understand the different reactions here, maybe from the faction for a few minutes, it'll take a few minutes. I'm asking you to sign up for the factions, let's take two minutes to express your attitude towards the information you just received. Is there no objection? Please sign in. Yes, name, please show me. Alla Alexandrovska, then Yuri Karmazin. Alla Alexandrovska, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m1.u106	Alexandrovsky, the Communist faction, the city of Harkov. I think that it is clear to all those present and to all who watch and listen to this broadcast that the Commission is working fairly productively. There were no voting statements - there was a reference to documents. That means that I am a member of this commission, which means that the commission is working properly. The conclusions will be drawn by law enforcement authorities and the conclusions should be made by the public of Ukraine. Our job is to collect documents and submit documents and facts to the court. Once again, I believe that the Commission is working productively, and that is why we need to support the previous report and continue to work in the same commission that is currently working on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m1.u107	Yuri Carmazin is passing it on to his colleague Pashinsky, please. Then there will be a performance by Yuri Baldiriev. And the helmet passes it on to you? Then four minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m1.u108	Dear colleagues, I am sad to say that such an important and extremely authoritative instrument of parliamentary activity as the work of a temporary commission of inquiry is not even used for falsification. Because it's hard to call it a forgery. It's not a professional lie. But what this tool is used for social pressure, this tool for pressure on the judicial system and law enforcement organizations is our problem with you, and believe me, we're going to live with this problem for a long time. What did we hear today? It's number one. A respected reporter a month and a half ago was telling everyone that she had undeniable evidence that Timoshenko had falsified the Cabinet's directives. So I'm asking you very much: Pass the evidence to the Attorney General's Office, you may not explain. Item two. Everyone remembers that Timoshenko Julia Volodymyrna became a national deputy in 1996 and came out of the foundation of all the structures. What's more, there are a lot of people in this room who remember that in 1999, then President Kuchma, through the head of the Azarov Tax Administration, destroyed the company "The Only Energy Systems". Assets were stolen, unscrupulously stolen. This story has been remembered by many for more than 15 years. What do we hear here? Trying to analyze EESU or even trying to analyze what happened in 2009? So let me remind you. It's number one. I have in my hands the same document that Inna Hermanovna, who accuses Timoshenko of having had private interests and on UT-1, told her that for signing such a contract, EESU owed her debt. I quote the last sentence: “However, the debt so far has not been repaid”. Item two. Did the Prime Minister of Ukraine have the right to hold intergovernmental negotiations? Well, let's not confuse society. I'm on it. The Law on the Cabinet of Ministers, the Law on the International Treaties of Ukraine, the Vienna Convention states that the President, the Prime Minister of Ukraine and the Minister of Foreign Affairs have the right to negotiate without further authorization. Paragraph three. I'm holding in my hand a document that's scared of a respectable reporter like hell. This is a letter from the Justice Minister to the Head of the Security Service of Ukraine, dated, and we know that this criminal case, if you believe the investigators of the Henprocurement, was faked in the walls of the U.S.S.A., they only got the materials. And we're reading two very important things, from my point of view, mentioned here. You remember that in 2001 an agreement was signed between the governments of Ukraine and Russia on the settlement of gas relations, which was signed each year by the protocols. Unfortunately, a legendary treaty with Rossukrenerego was signed instead of this agreement in 2006. So I want to say that only with Timoshenko's arrival did we bring our gas relations with Russia into a civilized race, that in October 2008 an intergovernmental memorandum was signed between Putin and Timoshenko, and, I quote, Minustu's document: "This way the contracts of 19 January 2009 do not conflict with the terms of that memorandum." How was the Prime Minister supposed to prove his agreements to the executives: commission, directive, writing, texting and so on? I don't have time to talk to the reporter anymore, but I want to say that the spring of counterfeiting, of lying, of corruption can be compressed for a very long time. But believe me, sooner or later she will be straight and, God forbid, this spring will be straight in our country. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m1.u109	Thank you, too. Yuri Baldiriev, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m1.u110	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues, I would like to tell you a story six years ago. In 2004, during the "orange patch" I was driving from Podola to the city, and I was stopped by a boy for probably 18 years in orange ribbons. I say to him, he gets in my car, I say to him, "What is it, Yashchenka?" He says, "No. - Why? - I love Yulk. - Why? - Well, she's beautiful and she's beautiful. Everybody's peeing." I say, "She's a thief, she stole 600 million from the Russians!".. He says, "Well, so. If I could, I'd steal too. They're all stealing now." I say, "Well, how? Well, it's a crime." He says, "She didn't steal from us. She stole from others." I mean, do you understand what all this stuff is leading to? This leads to the perversion of public morality. This future generation, he was 18 then, he thought so. Therefore, Timoshenko's punishment for everything she did for all these hypnosis sessions that we've seen when she shaped society on television channels into her ideology must be brought to an end. She must be punished. This does not mean that other thieves have to get away with it, which means that society has to convince itself, that stealing is punishable, and that other people who are allowed to steal like it will continue to be punished. That's what we have to do. And this is important for the future of our country, for the future of our children, for the future of our society, that is very important. I ask all those who do not want to understand it now, those who continue to support it, to look at the problem from this point of view, from this point of view. We're not living the last day. Follow us.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-16-m1.u111	Finish up. Dear colleagues! The statement has been completed. I'm putting the draft ruling to the vote now. Dear colleagues! May I have your attention, please? The draft ruling proposed by the Interim Investigation Commission. At the same time, I think when you got to know each other, you saw that there was a necessary technical editing of this project. So I'm putting him to a vote on the adoption with the mandate of the Legal Authority to conduct a technical drafting of this bill, which is the draft ruling. [[I'm underlining, technically.]] Registration number 8677. There's a vote coming. [[18:28:25]] For 241 I'll take the order. Dear National Deputies! The evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Tomorrow at 10 a.m., we'll continue our plenary work on Friday, June 17.
