ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[16:01:29]] There were 423 national deputies registered in the session hall. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Dear colleagues, we agreed with you, to agree more precisely on the proposal that was discussed at the Conciliation Council, that we will now consider the possibility of considering the inclusion in the agenda of the daily draft Act amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine on the harmonization of national criminal legislation with the United Nations Convention against Corruption. [[Registration number 9533, 9533-1]] We agreed that we would consider this issue by means of a procedure for incorporating the bill into the agenda, i.e. the report and the discussion: 2 in, 2 in, against. Do you understand the offer? Got it. Then Victor Dmitrovitch of Sweden has the floor. And then there'll be Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m1.u2	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! Practice shows that the right decisions are being put to the test at times. At the beginning of October, we all had a thorough discussion in the hall about reforming criminal legislation. As a result, Parliament decided to humanize so - called economic crimes without addressing the issue of humanizing legislation in the field of service. And that was a mistake. This was due primarily to the legal nature of the matter. That is why the Supreme Council’s committee of profile proposed to amend article 365 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code. What has changed since then? It turns out that there's quite a lot and at the same time there's nothing. A number of recent developments in the international arena have stubbornly shown that the Ukrainian authorities have turned themselves into a dead end and do not know how to get out of this deaf corner. The inadequacy of the actions of individual managers and contractors from law enforcement and judicial systems, which are fully under the control of the President's Administration, has led the Ukrainian people to stand still for the Treaty of Association with the Civilized World. We've all stopped by the chance of democracy, the rule of law, and the human condition of life. During the 21st year of independent Ukraine, our nation came closer than ever to the moment that it could return to the bosom of European civilised countries. I mean, today, dear colleagues, we can talk about this.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m1.u3	Viktor Dmitrovitch, let's do it this way, now Yuri Karmazin according to his bill, and then you decide the committee. Is that how it works? Well, please, then four minutes, let's do it now, then.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m1.u4	Dear colleagues, given that the regulations have come to an end very quickly, I would like to say that my bill is proposing a completely civilized and legally balanced mechanism to address this extremely complex political issue that has now arisen in Ukraine. Our belief is, as the author of the bill, that officials should be criminally liable only if their actions in adopting the administrative decision have signs of corruption, i.e. if he personally had the benefit of it, he had a personal interest. In any case, the official's administrative decision is not criminally responsible, it's a political decision, and you have to put a dot on it. The Committee on Law Enforcement Legislation considered Bill 9533 and 9533 with the '1' badge and approved the majority of the decisions: recommending to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a decision on the adoption of Bill 9533 in the first reading, i.e. the basis. We hope that yesterday's Presidential speech will finally give you the opportunity to vote for Ukraine's New Year to meet perfectly balanced, right-wing legal decisions that will allow you to tear apart this disgraceful knot that was created by the authorities, putting Julia Timoshenko in jail for playing. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m1.u5	Thank you. Victor Dmitrovich, thank you. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, please sign up for this discussion. Please put the names of the national deputies on the information board. Valerius Calchenko, "BUT" faction, "Fatherland." Ivan Kirilenko will be speaking. Next up is Vladimir Karpuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m1.u6	Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! I'm an eyewitness or not the world's greatest loudest trial ever, from day one to day. Because, as my friends are deeply convinced, everything that Julia Timoshenko is accused of and incriminating has no legal basis. It's completely innocent, not proven by the courts, not by abuse of office, not by excess of authority, not by personal gain, not by corruption. Therefore, Julia Timoshenko personally needs to be released, not after decriminalizing the articles of the Criminal Code, but because of her innocence. This is said by all those who have been in court and who are there now, the whole world society speaks authoritatively. The decriminalization of the relevant articles is not needed by Timoshenko, who is needed by Ukraine. Regrettably, this inquisitor article has been rolling from code to code for many decades and is the rudimentary of our law - enforcement, judicial system. It's a guillotine in the hands of any authority, at any time to deal with the disagreeable. Therefore, for Ukraine to be free from the wars of political elites, it is necessary to review these articles immediately, as the UN Convention has required since 2003, and which Ukraine has ratified but has failed to comply with its legislation. Political decisions should be made by a political court, a election court, such a position, such as Angels Merkel and other politicians of the world. Political persecution should be immediately halted in Ukraine, starting with the abolition of medieval articles of the Criminal Code. I was the author of the first draft of these questions along with my colleague Victor Schwetz. Our faction has stood firm for several months in favour of inclusion in the agenda and consideration, and positive voting on the bill. Unfortunately, we were not heard by the majority, they did not support us both in this bill and in a number of others. Today, there is another chance to restore justice and still take a civilised course of development. Do you hear us, colleagues? But hear us at last.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m1.u7	Vladimir Karpuk gives the right to speak to Ruslan Knyazevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m1.u8	Dear colleagues! Several times this topic has already been raised in the session room, and every time we peddled the issue of the need for inclusion in the agenda for the criminalization of drafts, we responded: you're looking for a purely political solution to the situation, let's look for a legal one. And only now, when the only possible legal path is offered, does the discussion begin or should it not go back to the political plane? Because there has indeed been a serious constitutional conflict, the essence of which is that we ratified this Hall on July 1, this year, and therefore have become a part of the Ukrainian legislation of the UN Convention against Corruption, which says that only when the employer has a personal interest in it can criminal responsibility be applied against it. This means that in this situation the constitutional principle of primacy of international law is violated by domestic law, since the rules of the Criminal Code are openly contrary to the international convention ratified by Ukraine. And that's why we have a situation where the convention is actually now in force, not the code. We're not doing anything, we're just technically putting the standards of the code in line with the convention. In view of these circumstances, if you are already saying that you must seek a legal path, let us vote because this is the UN Convention, not even a European, think about it, but the UN, a global character that has been ratified by more than 180 countries. If we don't want to be around Europe's civilized countries, let's face the countries of Africa, Asia, Latin America that have long since resolved this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m1.u9	Vladimir Olijnik, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m1.u10	I want to address all the decriminalizers in 365 articles. Read carefully "The Voice of Ukraine" article by the former Head of the Supreme Council of Vasil Malerenk on this issue, Your Honor, I apologize. Read it and you will see that it directly indicates that you are pushing Ukraine into legal chaos, and you can practically give birth to the will of officials. Because if it were a question of decriminalization, the liberalisation of those articles where the responsibility of ordinary citizens is still to be understood. But when, contrary to article 19 of the Constitution of Ukraine, where it is clearly stated that all officials should act on the basis of law, within the limits of the law and in the manner defined by law, you want to decriminalize this article, you should know about the legal consequences. And they're very simple. If such an article is decriminalized, then a loving policeman, not a DAI employee, will come to you and ask your right, a certificate and he says it's not in my best interests, I want it, but he has no right, because the authority is described. You're going to run into a bunch of civil servants on the spot when you come to register your business, and he's going to come up with hundreds of reasons and say no, and he's not going to say it's not my interest, it's not a third party. But at this time his family, close friends, will work, for it is not sometimes possible to catch an official by the hand that he does so in the interests of a third party. That is why this article is a work article. The Supreme Court has made it clear that it is an active and stimulating one, stopping all officials from making a mockery in Ukrainian society. Therefore, our faction will not vote in favour of including this issue in the agenda.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m1.u11	Dear colleagues, who of the factions who did not act insists? No, it's not. Dear colleagues, as we have agreed, please note that I will put to the vote a proposal on the readiness of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to consider the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine on the harmonization of national criminal legislation with the United Nations Convention against Corruption. [[Registration numbers 9533, 9533-1]] Please vote. [[16:15:35]] For a hundred and The factions, please. Regional Party - 0, "BUT - "Patkaščina" - 98, "Our Ukraine - National Self-Defense" - 52, communists - 0, "Reforms for the Future" - 1, National Party - 0, non-fractional - 5. So, honourable colleagues, please hold consultations and arrange for the required 226 votes. The draft Law on the State Budget of Ukraine 2012 is being announced for consideration. [[Registration number 9000]] The rapporteur is Finance Minister Feder Alekseiovich Jaroshenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m1.u12	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! Ukraine's 2012 State Budget Bill is the country's main financial document, by which we continue to carry out the country's strategic tasks and further protect the interests of every citizen. And today I want to present for your consideration a draft of the State Budget Act 2012 prepared and prepared for the second reading. The finalization of Ukraine's 2012 National Budget project takes into account the budgetary conclusions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the proposals of the national deputies, the mandate of the President of Ukraine and the government. More than 1,300 amendments and suggestions have been processed. The comments received are extremely valuable to us because they allow us to improve the budgetary policy of the State, to make it optimal, to the fullest extent possible for citizens. While working on the draft for second reading, our main goal was to maintain the balance and integrity of the state budget. The ideological basis and priorities of the 2012 revised budget remain unchanged and are fully in line with the President's economic reform programme and the government's strategic course. Ladies and gentlemen of the people, Your Honor! It is not possible to mention the changes that have taken place in the world since the introduction of the State Budget 2012 to the first reading, such as the slow pace of the global economy, the debt crisis in individual countries of the euro area and the United States, and the new challenges posed by energy prices. We were obliged to take these factors into account, and we corrected Ukraine’s main economic and social projections for 2012. A reasonable macroeconomic forecast was adopted by the government. According to the government’s decision, the macroprognosis was reasonable, revised to conservative. Real GDP has been reduced to 3.9 percent, nominal to 1 trillion 500 billion. The updated macro-prediction also takes into account the results of consultations with representatives of the world community. Thanks to its development focus, Ukraine is maintaining a moderate GDP growth rate, while the growth rate of Europe’s largest neighbours is shrinking. Dear colleagues, once again, I would like to stress that the basic parameters of the budget are directly related to the economic growth of our state. As a result, when the State budget for 2012 was further developed, the main macro-indicators had been adjusted to reduce the income and expenditure portion of the budget. It's about income. Under the budget, they are 424 billion, which is 4.2 billion less than in the first reading. The reduction took place on the basis of changes in the planned rates of income tax for natural persons, the excise collection and VAT. Despite the reduction in the first reading rate, well compared to 2011, the revenue of the budget will increase by 43.4 billion dollars, 11.4 percent, the national budget by 32 billion dollars, 10.6 percent, and the local budgets by 11.6 billion, 14.6 percent. The government continues its policy of reducing tax pressure on the economy. The share of tax revenue in GDP will decrease by 0.5 percent to 19.1 percent. As far as expenses are concerned. Key factors affecting the redistribution of the expenditure portion of the budget were the government's revenue cuts of 2.8 billion dollars, the increase in the pension fund's transfers of 7.5 billion dollars, the government's decision to significantly increase the level of social protection of black people by 1.8 billion dollars. And that's why we decided next year to cut the budget's capital expenditure by 9 billion dollars. Overall, the expenditure of the consolidated budget in 2012 will be 461.7 billion dollars, which is less than 3.2 billion dollars in first reading and 35 billion more than in 2011. Despite the deterioration of the world economy and the complexity of the challenges to be addressed, the President and the Government continue to pursue policies to raise social standards and increase social expenditure. So what benefits will citizens receive from the 2012 budget? The minimum of living per person on average will increase by 128 dollars, almost twice as much as the rate of consumer price projections. The minimum wage will increase by 14 per cent, the wage of budget workers will increase by 25.6 per cent, and 2.9 billion dollars will increase compared to the current year by 2012 the social pay to help single mothers, disabled children from childhood, when they are born, under the care of a child, to children with disabilities. Anticipated payout, 20 percent salary allowance for all teachers, doctors, pharmacists. Recovery payments will be made. Pensioners will increase their minimum pension pay on average by 10 percent. An average of 20-30 per cent will increase the pension and pension payments to the disabled of war, children of war, members of families of the dead, the dead, persons involved in war and fighting. Essentially, more than twice the pension will be increased for the liver-readers. At the same time, for the first time, guaranteed minimum pension benefits are tied to the minimum cost of living and are almost doubled. Let's not make this a big financial increase. However, for each individual citizen, they are quite substantial. Many tasks in the following year need to be addressed in the fields of education, health, science, and culture. You can see the dynamics of social spending in the fields on the slide. We realize that without serious structural changes, it is impossible and quality to develop an important economic factor — human capital. Dear National Deputies! Dear Head! In addition to supporting the social vector of the budget next year, substantial attention will be given to creating conditions to stimulate the development of the regional economy sector. An investment resource of more than 45 billion dollars will be spent on tax indulgences. The galluse distribution of development costs is shown on the slide. The overall resource, which will support the real economy in 2012, will be over 120 billion dollars. Dear colleagues! In terms of debt policy, government budget deficits. Unlike the uncontrolled growth of government debt two years ago, we are borrowing on the basis of solid plans. This has helped to halt the rise in the ratio of government debt to GDP and to move away from the dangerous borders that some countries in Europe are now facing. The total amount of government is 27.6 percent of GDP. Further plans are to reduce it to 25.3 in 2013 and 24.3 in 2014 respectively. The government deficit is 37.1 billion dollars or 2.5 percent of GDP. The amount of the deficit that is set for the following year will not be a heavy burden on Ukraine’s financial system and will not lead to unforeseen expenses in general. As far as regional policy is concerned, distinguished national MPs. The volume of local budgets increased to 45.4 percent in the amount of budget expenditure. The total expenditure of local budgets is 193 billion dollars. The amount of expenditure taken into account in determining inter-budget transfers is 116.1 billion dollars. The overall investment resource of the territories is 14 billion dollars. Local self-government, regional leaders have been given real weights to ensure the income of their budgets. It is their success that determines the development of a particular city or village, and it is the overall well - being of the population. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! The adoption of the State Budget Act 2012 allows the country to enter the following year with optimal and balanced financial indicators. And from the early days of the new year, 2012, continue the work on execution.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m1.u13	Finish up, please. Thank you. Dear colleagues, if there are any questions to the Minister of Finance, please sign in. Please state the names of the national MPs. Ivan Popescu.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m1.u14	Thank you. Dear Mr. Minister! When we first discussed Ukraine's 2012 State Budget project, you said that we would simultaneously adopt Ukraine's 2012 State Economic and Social Development Programme. We were also given these tables today. Please tell me, are they getting along? And what was proposed in the third column of the committee, along with the committee of ministers, will it be counted? If so, then there is a point in voting and supporting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m1.u15	Yes, of course. I would like, honourable members of the people, in view of the fact that I have just taken my time, Sir Head, to make a few comments. I wanted to ask you a very big question, I wanted to bring it up, I didn't have enough time. I'd like to make an offer that we're in the process of developing national projects. And in the government budget, we have what we're looking at today, 200 million dollars of expenditure. I am supplementing the draft decision that will be adopted today, part of this text, in the Final Positions, with the following sentence: "The Office of the Ministers of Ukraine, by assessing the implementation of the budget in two months 2012, to make proposals to the Supreme Council on sources of financing for the implementation of national projects." The sums to be predicted amount to 1.4 billion dollars. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m1.u16	Peter Melnik, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m1.u17	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, the honourable Feder Alexiyovich, I support, indeed, the implementation of national projects to increase spending by a billion 400 is a fair offer. But I think there will also be a reasonable proposal for the implementation of the Tax Code in connection with the introduction in 2012 of a number of document rules, such as tax notes, property taxes, and many other regulations. There is an urgent need for continued funding of the State Tax Office. I think you'd have to predict an increase in the funding of the tax service for quality service of taxpayers. And the second question. I think the Kyiv capital area has the right to have its own cardiology center. We predicted 10 million dollars, but I don't think that's enough, you'd have to increase to at least 30 million dollars and start building this center. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m1.u18	Thank you, Peter Volodymyrovich. On the first question about the financing of the State Tax Service. These proposals are being considered by Minfin, and when we review the 2012 budget, we will consider and make changes to the financing of individual State Tax Services programmes, as well as the Kiev area.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m1.u19	Paul Zebravsky, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m1.u20	Dear Fedor Alexiyovich, we spoke to you on the committee, I asked you a question, I want you to answer that question and radio listeners. The final position of the Budget Law is that of the sad law 9127, which the government with the rallyers agreed that it would not be missed as a law. But you're once again giving this law the ability of the government to manually determine the level of social spending funding. How much does this correspond to in the Constitution? Because there is a decision by the Constitutional Court that prohibits the law on the budget from halting social laws? Does this fit? And the second question. You're saying 1 billion 400, and what, is then 1 billion 400 increasing the budget's revenue for national projects? Where did this resource come from: 1 billion 400?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m1.u21	Thank you for asking. Well, first question. Indeed, these standards are in line with the Constitution. Article 95 of the Constitution clearly stipulates that the expenditure incurred by the State budget is determined exclusively by the State Budget Act. So there's no contradiction here, and in the End positions, it's normal to write a norm. As far as national projects are concerned, these are commonly-calculated projects, national projects, but we haven't included them in the funding project. And when we review the budget for two months in connection with the gas price review, we're going to release the resource -- and we're going to review it, we're going to propose that you make changes to the State Budget Act for 2012, which would allow you to fund national projects in full terms, as is done by the National Investment Agency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m1.u22	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Valerius Baranov, head of the Committee on Budget Affairs Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m1.u23	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The Committee on Budgets has today considered a bill drafted by the government and notes the following. In the process of drafting the bill, the government clarified the main projections for 2012-2014. These changes and refinements, which the Minister of Finance has given me, I'm not going to repeat them. According to article 158 of the Rules of the Supreme Council, the Committee on Budget Affairs, following the Government's submission of the State Budget Bill, prepared for second reading, is preparing a conclusion on the inclusion in this bill of budgetary conclusions of the Supreme Council. An operational study of the state of government budgeting findings of the bill suggests that part one, of the 42 points that we have proposed, 38 counts, is included in part three points and one is not counted. As for part two, of the seven items, two are included, part two are included and three are not included: the processing of the settlement of the payment of the difference in fees for heat, water and water services; paragraph five, the review of the distribution of subsidies for the purchase of medical vehicles and equipment for health facilities; paragraph six, the increase of subsidies for socio-economic development measures of 692,85 million dollars per division of 113 offers is only considered in part four. As for part three, of the 12 paragraphs, separate paragraphs have been implemented, including the State Privatization Programme Bills, amending the budget code for the establishment of the State Regional Development Fund in the unification of territorial communities, taking into account that the Government is mandated to provide the Supreme Council with information on the status and implementation of this part in the six-month period, i.e. April 20, 2012. In addition, the Supreme Council of Lithuania’s head, Volodymyr Mikhajlovich, was invited to cancel the parliamentary benefits and the budgetary conclusions of the Supreme Council were entrusted with settling them. On the basis of the discussion of the above-mentioned issue, the Budget Committee adopted a decision: recommending to the Supreme Council a Government-produced bill on the State Budget for 2012, number 9000, to be adopted on second reading and, as a whole, as a law, taking into account the proposals made by the Budget Committee, which are presented in a letter, are also given to you. For the stenographer. It was also necessary to consider such suggestions. To anticipate a budget programme under code 2209150 "Creating a modern innovation park in the field of information and other high technology" with development costs of 35 million dollars. Increase consumption costs under code 0111090 "Enlightenment of the activities of national deputies through television and radio broadcasting, and financial support for the newspaper Voice of Ukraine and Wiche magazine for 4 million $750,000. Increase the allocation of subsidies for the purchase of medical vehicles and health facilities To increase the area budget: Zaporozhye Region – 40 million, Donetsk Region – 50 million, Luhansk Region – by 40 million at a reduction of 130 million for the Kharkiv district's district budget. [[they were offered 0]] Such proposals are foreseen for a further reduction in expenditure on the State Regional Development Fund. I also wanted to add that the finance minister in front of me was talking about the implementation of national projects. Its wording after the words "for the sources of financial security for the implementation of national projects" should be inserted "investment and national projects". Please support the adoption of the State Budget Bill 2012 as a second reading and as a whole as a law with the proposals of the Budget Committee and the additional proposals I have made. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m1.u24	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Please ask questions. I'm sorry. We have three minutes to ask. Please sign up. Gregory Kaletnik, please ask me a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m1.u25	Thank you. I wanted to ask you what we have on January 1st of a new funding. And I saw that the agrarian budget assignments were passed on to another fund manager, and they were subordinated to the Ministry of Agrarian Policy and Food. Please tell me if we can settle this on January 1st, so there won't be a break in the financing of agrarian colleges.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m1.u26	I think since we have a budget review after the new year, this proposal will have to be considered, you give it to us in writing, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m1.u27	National Deputy Bobylov, Reform Group for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m1.u28	Please. You don't? Blackwolf, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m1.u29	Mr. Baranov, you have a question for the head of the Budget Committee. Look, we've looked at the conclusions of the budget committee on the bill, and we've seen that there's a proposal to increase the amount of subsidies to different cities and regions. So your native Berdian district is 12 million, it's more than most areas, and in your native Zaporozhye district it's the first place among other areas, at least ten times more than in Dnipropetrovska. And they say that that's where your mayoral district is going to be to the Supreme Council, is that not a violation of the law and a bribery of the electorate? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m1.u30	I want to tell you that I've never lived in the Berdjan district, I'm from the town of Berdjansk, so you made a mistake. And all we have in our bill is 113 territories and district councils getting aid for socio-economic development.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m1.u31	Gasuk Peter, Reforms for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m1.u32	You got it? Then John Popescu, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m1.u33	Thank you. The high-ranking reporter! I want to ask you, today we're going to have an opportunity to adopt the State Economic Development Programme "Ukraine 2012," because you remember when we first read about budget issues, we said that these two documents were mutually agreed? If so, what choice do we have to vote for the program?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m1.u34	The government has given us a draft budget that we're talking about, and you and I have adopted a socio-economic development programme on the first reading, so we don't have a second reading of such a program yet.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m1.u35	Gregory Smythuch, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m1.u36	Please tell me, is there a budget for increased expenditure on investment in the construction of schools in rural areas? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m1.u37	We have this problem in social and economic development subsidies and we have a projected subsidy of another 2 billion for the next year, which is not allocated to capital expenditure. There you can make your suggestions and consider them next year.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m1.u38	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, please sign up for the factions. It's recorded in factions. Please print out the surnames. Boiler, Baldirev, Matviev, Kamchatny, Yavorowski And now I'm asking you to sign up for the National Deputies for another 15 minutes. Please sign in. I would like to present the names of the national deputies who signed up for the performance. Yes, you can all see, dear fellows, let's move on to the performances. Roman Zvaric.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m1.u39	Please pass the word to Arsenius Yatsenyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m1.u40	Arsenius Yatsenuk. The next will be by Yuri Baldarev or by the faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m1.u41	Dear people of Ukraine! I will start with a rhetorical question, where is Prime Minister Azarov and the entire composition of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine when considering the main financial document of the State? The answer is simple: They are ashamed of the law that has been passed to Parliament today. A brief analysis of macroeconomic indicators. The current government has offered to increase the economy at nearly 4 percent, as opposed to 5.5, which they promised a month ago. However, the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund, which are much better able to count than Prime Minister Azarov and the entire Ukrainian government, said that the economy would increase by 2.5 percent. In view of this, the opposition notes that the budget’s income of at least 6 billion dollars has already been inflated. The other one. The only right of opposition that was included in this draft budget is to shorten the budget by means of so-called opaque budgetary guarantees. In the first project, the government offered 15 billion dollars, and now they've only left 5 billion dollars to steal from their programs. Why, though, does the project provide no indication of where these 5 billion are going to be sent? They have a lot of experience in spending their budget. Let me remind you, this authority sent $10 billion to Euro-2012. This money could not be used to build four stadiums and two roads, but it was possible to make a country, not just their private arrangements. Third. Privatization. In this privatisation budget project, they put only 10 billion dollars in total revenue. And it's no wonder they sell government objects for their own change. They wrote down those government property that they wanted to buy for 10 billion dollars this year alone, 24 billion dollars that these companies had to pay to the budget and pay to taxpayers in the form of education, medicine. Next. It's a pay-as-you-go fund. I want to make it clear that for the next year, the government has planned to reduce the total earnings of Ukrainians, so listen to what figure, 16 billion dollars. In this way, the Ukrainians are underpaid. And then it's interesting. It's the cost of power. In the last two years, they've increased their spending by 6 billion dollars, so listen to that figure, that's more than education and medicine. And in this budget they've gone up again: to the President plus 15 million dollars, to all government authorities, also plus 6 billion in the last two years. In small and medium -sized businesses, however, they gave one and a half bracelets for each enterprise and for each enterprise. And last but not least. On the fly.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m1.u42	Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m1.u43	On flights to senior government officials, they predicted 188 million dollars. We'll drop you all on a one-way ticket, fly out of here, and then we can change the country without you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m1.u44	Thank you. Yuri Baldirev is referring the right to speak to Vladislav Lukyanov because he is. 2 appearances - 6 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m1.u45	Dear citizens of Ukraine, we have just heard a speech from people who have demonstrated how to run the country for five years. We've seen them printing 100 billion dollars a year, and we've seen them fail the course from 4.5 to 10-11, and then it's gradually dropping to 8 bracelets. We've seen how these people, who are now advising on how to manage the economy, how they stole the state budget. How the Gold Stock of the State Was Stolen. As the government's debts increased, external debt increased almost three and a half years after their "kingdom" in the state. Now we're seeing how the "gas drown" of the agreement that this team has put into place, and the development of the state, it's affecting the ability of the state to regenerate. And these are the people who are trying to learn. I can analyze the growth rate of the economy from 2002 per cent. We saw that 2003-2004, the economy was run by Prime Minister Viktor Fedorovich Timoshenko. [[B in m in s a l in]] We can see that Victor Fedorovich Janukovic, unlike Timoshenko, sought the highest growth rates. We saw that in 2003.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m1.u46	May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m1.u47	The growth rate was 6 percent. We see that in 2004, the economy grew by 7 percent with a hook. But by 2005, when this team, which can only promise and lie to people, had dropped the rate of growth to 2 percent, but people understand. And in 2006, the Regional Party team returned to economic governance. And we see that the growth rate of the economy has risen again to more than 5 percent. 2007 is the growth rate of 7 percent. 2008-2009 -- we see the country is in a state of destruction. The 2009 economy is down 15 percent. Wages are cut, allowances are cut off for teachers and doctors. We see that the economy is at the brink of destruction. And only in 2010, when the Regional Party team was once again supported by Ukrainian citizens, we were able to break the decline curve from minus 15 percent to 5 percent of the growth in the economy. 2011 -- we see that the economy continues to recover. We see that production is increasing again. We see that exports are increasing, production is increasing from both natural and external investment inflows. We can see that this team can work. But the question is, What is the difference? And the difference is very simple. Last month, the team borrowed at the level of one billion with a hook. This team will pay off these expenses, pay off the government debt. And every month instead of the debt that Timoshenko and her team raised. The government of Azarova pays off external debts for a billion dollars, or 8 or 9 billion dollars we pay each month for the old debts of this team. As for the 2012 budget, we see that the budget is made on a conservative, non-popular basis. We've kept all the social standards, we've preserved the increase in payments to black people, Afghans, pensioners, 10 percent increase in pensions, that's when the crisis erupts in neighbouring countries with Ukraine. Look at the state of the economy in European countries, the state of the economy in Greece, Italy, Spain. We see that social spending is declining. But in Ukraine, for the next year, we increase the wages of the budgeters by 25 percent, and we increase the wages of teachers, doctors, by 20 percent. Increases expenditure on all social programs. In doing so, we were able to save the economy's growth rate by 5 percent. And I'm sure there's a team that can work, and there are people who can only lie to their constituents. Choose for you and compare.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m1.u48	Valentina Matviev, Communist faction. Alla Alexandrovska, Communist faction. The next will be Taras Crnrowil, a group called Reforms for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m1.u49	Respectable people's deputies could be limited to one single phrase, saying that the Communist faction would not vote in favour of the proposed draft State Budget Act 2012. But I'm still going to explain our position. And not to you, dear colleagues, you know it. I would like to explain our position to those citizens of Ukraine who are anxious or waiting for the adoption of this vital law of Ukraine. First position, main and main. The State Budget Act establishes a rule allowing the Government to determine for itself which social assistance and support may or may not provide. That is to say, this is the same rule of the 9127 bill, which has offended virtually all of Ukraine. Once again, the Government reserves the right, on the basis of the available financial resources of the State budget, to determine how much to pay to liquidators and victims of war, the children of war are entitled to a monthly payment of 57 bracelets instead of 246, as required by the law. It's going to affect the military pensioners. This will, of course, affect the police who are entitled to housing and utility benefits. This applies to articles 12, 13, 14, 15, 16 of the Ukrainian War Veterans Act and guarantees their social protection. By the way, let the veterans know. Bill 9127 referred to the limitation of payment only by 9 May and to sanatorium treatment. It is now a matter of regulating the totality of the benefits granted to them under this law. There was no support in the budget and in the proposals of the Communist faction for the need to allocate funds in the budget to implement the decisions taken in favour of pensioners. No 456 million bracelets have been allocated for compensation to the heirs of the dead who have contributed to the former Soviet Union Sbergbank. All of this shows that savings policies on social programmes are continuing. These savings will affect virtually all the people of Ukraine, not just those I have spoken of. Because the Government's proposed minimum of living over the year is rising at a slower pace than consumer prices will increase. The minimum wage growth rate, the subsistence minimum, will be 7.7 per cent. Consumer prices will increase by 7.9 per cent. This is also evidenced by the fact that, in finalizing the budget project, despite a 5 billion-dollar reduction in the projected gross domestic product, the profits of enterprises are projected to increase by 11 billion. The wage fund will reduce by 16 billion. Thus, the rich continue to be rich, and the poor continue to be poor. We do not support such policies.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m1.u50	Taras Cranville. Vladimir Yavorowski will be next. Sergey Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m1.u51	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear fellow national MPs! We really have a very difficult choice today with regard to the adoption of the State Budget Act. We can ask ourselves: "Is that a good budget? Are we all happy with it?" I think the answer will be no, it's not good enough and it's not satisfied with everyone, including power and opposition. But in the end, when each of us decides whether to vote or not, each of us will have his own motive: who will ask him questions that will give him arguments, how to answer the question of whether to vote or not to vote in favour of the law. In power and opposition, they can be different: they just tell someone, someone believes in unique beautiful indicators, someone doesn't vote, because it's not our budget, and we have to demonstrate the principle, the worse, the better. I'm going to give you individual nuances, separate arguments that are in our faction. We did not make decisions at once; it was not easy. The final decision was made only at the last meeting of the faction, literally an hour ago. And so, paragraph one. This is the fact that we have to make this decision by the new year, we have to make a final decision on the budget process by the new year. We should not leave the country for a winter period, for a time when gas supply problems, and so forth, is a source of fiscal chaos. One second. In the document that we have now been given definitively, there is a fairly clear argument and a sufficiently clear detail of the budget programs and articles that can be verified, controlled in the course of the year. Third. We can confidently say that there are sufficient sources from which we can take more money to improve, increase both the income and the expenditure? You can draw a lot of things: Offshores can be mentioned, government costs can be mentioned, etc. If someone believes that we are about to get this money back into the budget and do it, then let's break the budget process. Everyone understands, and those against the budget realize that not a penny will come back now, unfortunately, from those Cyprus offshores. We have to, in Parliament, directly, not to those who have exported the money, but to each deputy to operate on what money there is. One second. This is a social cost factor, at the cost that we are obliged to provide. I would like everything provided for by law to be accomplished. Unfortunately, everyone knew that, and all those who voted in favour of those laws that would be impossible to do so would have no expense. Today we have achieved, including our faction, that real costs not only do not decrease relative to last year's figures, but they also partially increase, the reality of other indicators, etc. With all the other negative nuances, we are convinced that we must vote for this budget. Our faction will vote. Unfortunately, I'm out now, but, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, if I may, the final argument is my personal argument. Two years ago, when the government of Yulia Volodymyrna Timoshenko was sitting in this region faction sector, I voted in favour of the budget made by the government of Timoshenko, having the same claims that I have today in the budget made by the government of Azarov. I then made the same arguments. Which I just wrote for myself, part of it, part of it didn't make it. Then I remember how the right part of the hall applauded me for supporting that budget. I would very much like to see someone on the right side of the room come forward and say in his defense today, with tremendous criticism and claims to this budget, because it is impossible to do otherwise. Thank you for your attention. Let's support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m1.u52	Sergey Sobolev, "BUT" faction, "The Fatherland." Zarubinski will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m1.u53	Dear colleagues, you know, it's been two and a half months since the first reading of the budget. What's changed? There is no basis for monetary policy. Isn't that right, Mr. Jaroshenko? How did you plan your budget without the basis of monetary policy? What are the inflation rates, GDP, what are you talking about? Within two and a half months, they were unable to assemble a joint meeting with the National Bank of Ukraine. It's different. You guaranteed the Chernobylites, the Afghans, the pensioners, the disabled that you wouldn't touch the benefits. What do we see in the positions of the End? Not 16 anymore, and 24 categories of pills will now depend on which leg Mr. Jaroshenko or Mr. Azarov woke up from, whether there was money in the budget or not. That's why it's absolutely obvious to me that you're a fool millions of our citizens, because you consciously set a standard in the Final Positions that will now make all the social programs not in accordance with the law, but according to whether you have the funds in the budget or not. Do you have money in your budget? Let's see what protected articles in your budget, what key growth is going to be like. 400 percent, think about it! – 400 percent increase in the special areas reserve fund. Is that where you'll be hunting with Yanukovich? There is a 156 per cent increase in the costs of maintaining the Attorney General's Office, 154 per cent in the transport of senior officials to the State, 148 per cent in the equipment of the Ministry of Social Policy. By the way, there's a 13 percent deficit in the Pension Fund, and the pension fund's maintenance apparatus goes up by 1 billion dollars, twice as much. 137 percent are internal troops. This is the policy that will be pursued by this government during this fiscal year. You don't pay pensions to people with disabilities, you limit payments to all social categories, and they don't die. You're increasing their burial aid, and they're not dying. Did you then decide with this budget to finally get people?Oh, my God! So our faction will certainly not vote for this budget, because in fact this is the final budget for the destruction of Ukrainians, this is a budget in which virtually none of the low-incomes will find the answer to the question of how to survive it. And then, gentlemen of the region, you won't be wrong after a year of this budget, you won't confuse Janukovic's name, because his name will be Victor Fedorovich Kaddafi, and his fate will be exactly that. Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m1.u54	Dear colleagues, the word is Oleg Zarubinsky. I call on the people's deputies to stay within a certain framework. We're on the Supreme Council! Viacheslav Kirilenko will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m1.u55	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, an amusing situation: when there is an effort to resolve internal political processes, appeals, appeals to the international European society, that is to say, it has to impose sanctions, that is, full orientation on Europe. When it comes to economic problems and economic trends, let's look at whether or not some of my colleagues are in a vacuum that we can solve in the middle of Ukraine, regardless of European, global trends. It's ephemeral, it's not true, it's a dichotomy, it's a desire to show the country in black and white, and I'll talk about it a little bit later. And that's why, obviously, when we're looking at the 2012 budget, we can't just ignore what's going on in the world. And when the Federal Chancellor of Germany Angela Merkel said that the crisis that is today in Europe is the biggest crisis since World War II, let's think about it, 66 years have gone by and there was no such crisis, and obviously Ukraine needs to think about how not to do and not go along the same path as Greece, not going along some other powerful European countries that today have a sovereign debt of two trillion euros. Nobody's talking about it, it's not like it's not like we're in a vacuum, so it's more comfortable -- trying to show politics and economics and budget in black and white, but it's not like that. If today’s budget is only in black, it is appropriate to say what was the budget white, whether in 2005 or in 2007, or in 2009. There is no budget that everyone would like, and there is never again in any country of the budget that the majority of the population will like. Because the budget must make sense of the relationship between what the state has gathered and what the state is issuing, what the state is spending. Everyone else here is hysterical, angry and so forth -- it's just politics, it's totally not an expert evaluation. And I don't think that this is an expert, absolutely political, I would say that an ideological position in terms of the budget comes from an interesting proposal that I've read about recently. It turns out in the next election, in the next election, there should be power in the ballot: this is power, and this is opposition and choose. No, Your Honor, it's a cunning trick, in fact, it has to be. Today's power, yesterday's power. And indeed, those people who were not in power -- they can criticize, not you -- respectfully. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m1.u56	Viacheslav Kirilenko, faction of our Ukraine. Next is Anatoly Grizzenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m1.u57	Viacheslav Kirilenko, Party "For Ukraine!".. It's very bad that there's no one in the government but the minister of finance. This means that the government either doesn't care about the budget or the Supreme Council. One of two. The first and the second are bad; the first and the second are not democratic. But I'm talking about something else. I was surprised by the humorous phrase in the Explanatory Note: The social orientation of the budget has been preserved. Otherwise, it's not possible to call it humor. I'm not going to talk about the whole social network in the budget, but some things. Look, there's a pension reform called Tihypak that's not here, by the way. The budget deficit of the Pension Fund is about 60 billion dollars. Where is pension reform? Why does the budget need to inject 60 billion dollars into the Pension Fund again, while pensions do not go any higher? And I'll tell you why. Since all the nominal benefits have been left behind, the government is afraid to touch them, and again it wants to save on ordinary workers. They care a lot about veterans, says the government. I'll let you know, even though it's the right government to do it. Help for Victory Day once for every war veteran next year will be fabulously large, according to the government, up to 130 dollars for one war veteran. That's another social orientation. Next. See End Positions. The 13 laws that apply to at least 15 categories of people who are underfunded cease to exist. Once again, the benefits to the Chernobylites, the military pensioners, the children of war, the rural doctors, the veterans of war, and the veterans of labor stop. Do nomenclatures stop? No, it's not. Is the force going down? No, it's not. Does the President have less spending on the global economy and economic crisis? No, it's not. I'll tell you, over 25 billion dollars is just for the muscle. Do you know how many Chernobyl apartments? 50 million dollars to all people in line on the Chernobyl line. And to keep the President alive, it's one and a half billion dollars. Here's another indication of the social orientation of this budget. Therefore, our faction cannot vote for such a budget because it beats every single person, every single person who lives on wages, pension, social assistance. These people don't have a budget. And the oligarchs, who control the whole sector, give them billions more than anything else in the economic policy of the financial crisis. That's why we call this budget "the budget of oligarchs and rapists" and we won't vote for it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m1.u58	Anatoly Griesenko, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Sergey Gordienko will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m1.u59	Dear colleagues! If we're talking about the country having the Basic Law, the Constitution, we can't vote for this document. On page 36-37, contrary to the Constitution, in spite of the Constitutional Court's decision, a number of laws cease to apply. We don't have the right to raise our hands or press the pros button, I think. What is meant by what is recorded in these pages? Social payments will be made in the order and size set by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, from the available financial resources of the State budget. Simply put, what does that mean? Mikola Janovich Azarov will come out here and say, as he's saying in the second year, our predecessors have left us a ruin, there's no money in the budget and he's paying for something. We've heard it here a number of times. What does that mean? This means that more than 10 million Ukrainian citizens are deprived of their rights if this anti-constitutional law is passed, deprived of their right to go to court and seek the protection of their rights, even in the court of Kiev. They are forbidden, and they have this right under the Constitution. What else does this anticonstitutional post mean? That means Donbass is chasing an empty hole. According to the signing of Azarov Nikolay Janović and under the signature of the Red Cross and Andrews, the heads of the two public organizations, headed by the Union of Chernobyl and the Afghans, were pledged by paragraph 1 that the government was refusing to do so by law. Azarov lied to the Afghans and the Chernobylites, the people who went into the fire, into the radiation and on the bullet, with this document, here is the signature of Azarov. Tihypko lied to these people who were negotiating, and I was present at the Ministry when these negotiations took place. I think they should stop, it's not just the Chernobyls, it's the Afghans, it's the teachers, it's the Donbass miners, it's Luhansk, I'm specializing in Donetsk, and it's in Lviv. Medical personnel, rural teachers, pensioners, veterans of all categories, veterans of the work, victims of Nazi persecution, all anticonstitutionally depriving them of their rights. I'm not a populist, nobody's gonna blame you. Instead of allowing Social Policy Minister Sergey Tihypco to legislate in two years, the benefits were arranged, they followed an anticonstitutional course. Therefore, the opposition should not vote and, confident that there will be an immediate appeal to the Constitutional Court to repeal this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m1.u60	The word is Sergey Gordienko, a faction of Communists. Volinetz will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m1.u61	The honourable chairman, the honourable citizens of Ukraine, all who listened, studied and had access to this bill, wanted to cry, but wanted to cry, not out of happiness, but out of sorrow. In fact, this is the 2012 budget -- the disaster budget, I'm stressing again -- I want to say that this is the budget for the invasion of social rights, programs and the social sphere of our state. I draw attention again and again, as my colleagues do part 3 of the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget 2012 Act. That's why the Supreme Council of Afghans, the Chernobyls, the children of war -- everything they stand for today and freeze in tents under the Cabinet of Ministers, on the playgrounds and squares in Ukraine -- the same Afghans who cost their lives to save the world from an atom that came out of submission -- today it's "not in a moment, so in a catacomb" in the 2012 budget. We Communists, honestly and in principle, have told you that by spitting on each memo, you have acted on that rod and went out to negotiate with the government. We said that there would be no agreement, no moment, so the catapult would extend those positions that would not give you the right to get what you deserve. I also want to say that this is the budget below the social sphere. Let me give you an example of the Poltava region. At the Poltav district health care facility in 2012, funds are being allocated for only 63 percent of the population. I ask myself a question, and I ask all the half-wits: What do we do to the regional authorities? What can health - care workers do? What can ordinary citizens do? The government will advocate optimizing the health - care network, cutting down establishments, and reducing jobs. And Ukraine’s citizens certainly need to wash themselves, wear clean clothes, and not expect to receive medical help, but quietly go to the cemetery. It's bitter, but it is. The faction of the Company of Ukraine does not vote under any circumstances for a budget that destroys the social benefits and social sphere of our state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m1.u62	Peter Cibenko, a colleague of Volinec, a faction of Communists, is entitled to the talk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m1.u63	Honorable colleagues, distinguished voters, respected citizens of Ukraine. I want to address the veterans separately as the head of the Ukrainian Veterans' Organization. For the faction of the Company of Ukraine, it is quite obvious that the budget is formed, including by robbing the most disadvantaged population: pensioners, veterans, and disabled persons. Approaches to Bill 9127, which has already been discussed today, have been recorded in the State Budget of Ukraine. Moreover, in answering today’s question from the hall, the minister of finance stated that failure to do what is right, which means that no one has repealed the laws of direct action, is a constitutional norm. And this is claimed by the civil servant, on condition that the Constitutional Court of Ukraine has already ruled several times on the non-admissibility of restricting the laws of direct action by the State Budget Act. The second thing I wanted to say. A budget program for the provision of automobiles for war invalids and black people with disabilities has disappeared from the state budget. Dear colleagues, some 80,000 people are in line for this program. The government budget is allocated from 80 million to 110 million dollars a year for these purposes. It was really small, but it allowed the disabled and the disabled to buy about 3,000 cars each year. Now they've been deprived of the disabled, which means they've been driven to extinction in four walls. Next. During October-November, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine waved to the population of Ukraine a memorandum they signed with the Chernobylites and signed with the veterans of Afghanistan. So I want to tell those Afghan veterans who are now listening to me that this state budget is in violation of this agreement. Because 20 percent of the payout increase by May 5 does not take place, instead the increase is 8 percent. And if you take in absolute figures the amount of payment before it has to be provided by law, it's even going down. And I want to say one more thing. Unfortunately, this is not just the way the authorities treat veterans, pensioners, and disabled people, so the authorities also view science as the future of our country. Because those sums, the pitiful sums that are put into the budget today, do not go in the same way as what needs are today. So once again, the faction of the Company of Ukraine will not vote for this document.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m1.u64	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. I'm asking the minister if there's a closing word? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m1.u65	Dear Mr. Head, honourable national deputies, distinguished representatives, well, first of all, today's review of the State Budget 2012 project shows that all concerned about adopting a balanced, correct budget and that it is being implemented. During the 20 years of our state's independence, you've seen an enormous amount of budget. And a lot, I'm very grateful to the national MPs who said that no budget, well, he's practically never been able to respond to the wishes that floated in this room. You know when our nation worked without a budget. The year began and ended when the budget was accepted. Thus, virtually even the sole wage was not fully financed. You know, when you made decisions, you made budgets, you got high incomes, you got high expenditure, and you didn't have any revenue, you didn't have a budget, you didn't have a budget, you didn't have a budget, you didn't have a fourth quarter, and you didn't have any funding. And the citizens of our nation, well, were practically not provided for by the rules, as provided for by law. And you know, the government's results are very clear when Victor Fedorovich Janukovic led it. The budgets that were adopted, accepted and passed by the Yanukovich government were completely balanced, and they were being implemented in every direction. And these budgets, just so you know, have always been approved by you in Parliament, the 2003 budget implementation reports, for 2004. And the approved implementation reports, the budget and the 2010 budget. The rest of the budgets that were being implemented came from Parliament for consideration by the Attorney General's Office. So the government budget today is absolutely balanced. Clearly, there is never much money, and it is not always enough. But the government assumed that all the expenses that were to be foreseen should be balanced. So today there were thoughts that said that there were 6 billion dollars in power. I want to tell you that there is an increase of 55 million dollars in power, while social spending is increased by 105 billion. According to macro indicators, think about it, the government has developed three scenarios. The first is conservative, reasonable and optimistic. And in response to these conditions, the government is balancing its, so to speak, commitment to society. And today I've told you that the budget has been put into a conservative scenario. And we have absolutely balanced and no, I don't think there will be any problems. We're going to insist that our nation's economy develops, the population's income increases, and we've had more and more spending to protect the poor, to protect the population and to avoid it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m1.u66	Thank you. Thank you. Don't let the MPs change their minds, Feder Alexiyovich. Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? I will now put to the vote a proposal on the adoption of the bill in the second reading and in general as a bill of the State Budget project, taking into account the conclusions of the committee and taking into account the clarification that the Minister of Finance has made regarding the Agency for National Projects and, honourable colleagues, please pay attention! It is suggested that I will now extend to your knowledge, to complete the section "The Final Positions" of the draft Law "On the State Budget of Ukraine for 2012" by paragraph 4 of the content concerning the benefits of Ukrainian national deputies: Stop article 20 on payments to former national deputies of material assistance in the amount of the salary of a working national deputy for the period of his employment and 50 percent of the salary in the event of an inability to work. Part five. As for the payment of material aid for the recovery of a double monthly salary. Part eight. With regard to the payment of 12 months ’ salary for a working national deputy in the event of retirement. The third sentence of paragraph 7 of Part 12. With regard to free travel in Ukraine 1 time a year by rail, water, air, or intercity transport to a national deputy who retired. The first sentence of paragraph 9 of Part 12. With regard to after - retirement care, medical care, transportation to hospitals, clinics, and other needs, health care, and medical treatment are provided. Paragraph 1 of Part 13. Article 21 on the right of Ukraine’s national deputy to receive three times its monthly salary and free passage and free passage of property to the residence of the national MP and his family when the term of office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is terminated. Article 23 on the right to free carriage of hand luggage within the limits of the rules on the carriage of hand luggage and the free parking of a car. Parts 5 and 6. Article 30 on compulsory national life insurance and the health of a national MP. Part 7 of article 33 on the provision of travel for sanatorium treatment. Part 6 of article 34 on payment to an assistant consultant of the Ukrainian People's Deputies of one-time cash assistance in the amount of three months' wages in the event of dismissal on the basis of the early termination of the mandate of the national deputy. Article 35, on the payment of one-off monetary compensation for expenses incurred in creating adequate housing conditions. Ladies and gentlemen, you've all talked about the need to be with people. I've given these suggestions to the faction leaders. () [[B in m in s a l in]] So, dear fellows, you don't want to vote. And I think we need to make that decision, so I'm putting it to a vote. (Front) [[B in m in s a l in]] a proposal for the adoption of the draft State Budget in second reading and generally as a law, including the additions that I have just announced. And in view of the necessary additions and clarifications to entrust the committee, together with the technical and legal administration, to process and prepare for signature, if the decision is taken, of the State Budget for 2012. Please vote. () [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, don't yell, at least vote for the cancellation of your benefits. Come on, don't scream! [[17:26:07]] For the 250. The law is passed, thank you. () [[B in m in s a l in]] The factions? Please. Region Party – 190, "BUT" – "Fathership" – 0, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 10, communists – 0, "Reforms for the Future" – 18, National Party – 20, non-factional – 12. Ladies and gentlemen, we are moving on to the following issue: the draft Law on the State Economic and Social Development Programme of Ukraine for 2012 and the main directions for development for 2013 and 2014. The rapporteur is the head of the Committee on Economic Policy of Plonikov Alexi, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m1.u67	Dear Head! Dear National Deputies! In accordance with the Supreme Council Regulation of 22 September 2011 the Economic Policy Committee prepared a draft Law on the State Economic and Social Development Programme of Ukraine for 2011 and the main development directions for 2013 and 2014 for consideration in the second reading. More than 200 proposals and amendments to the legislative initiative have been carried out by the committee, most of which are taken into account in whole, editorial or partial terms. Since the national programme is a document that determines the development of the country for 2012, it is linked and coordinated with the 2012 State Budget, which was made by the committee when the document was finalized for the second reading. Taking into account some of the risks that affect the development of the country, the committee has a number of proposals that will have a positive impact on the economy of Ukraine and minimize the possible impact of crisis. The Committee on Economic Policy at its meeting on 20 December 2011 considered the draft Ukrainian Law on the State Economic and Social Development Programme 2012 and the main directions for development for 2013 and 2014 and decided to recommend to the Supreme Council that it be accepted in the second reading of the agenda as a whole. [[Registration number 9159]]
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m1.u68	Ladies and gentlemen, we must now make our decisions. I'm asking you to go back to work. The committee proposes to adopt the document in the second reading and generally as a law. Is there no objection? [[B in m in s a l in]] There's a denial. Let's make some adjustments. Please, it's Yatzenuk's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m1.u69	Dear colleagues, this programme of socio-economic development concerns the State Budget Act, which has just been adopted. I want to support the position that the majority have expressed, which has finally been reminded that the opposition has passed a law on the abolition of parliamentary benefits. But you're the only pure cheaters. You're crooks because we wanted to make a proposal about the payout of the President's Administration, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the entire composition of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Didn't you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, give us your word? What was your hurry in adopting this law? I think you broke the Rules first. And secondly, dear colleagues, don't turn Parliament into a full free circus. What is it about passing laws for the billions of dollars that you manage as your own pocket?Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m1.u70	Please, Alexander Ephraim.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m1.u71	You know, I can't help but respond to this cynicism. This is the speaker who tried to jump out of his pants as he broke his cabinet as a speaker of Parliament, our entire faction, all the deputies to vote in favour of the bill, including the State Budget, which the MPs had not even seen! And today, what he didn't vote in favour of abolishing the benefits, he didn't vote because he didn't want to vote, he started making up other stories. After all, we must have a conscience!
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m1.u72	Dear colleagues, since I have been addressed with appeal and accusation, I would like to ask my respectable colleague to stop and appreciate his work first. Second, what prevented you from making the right decision? And thirdly, the bills are in place, they're not being considered, but obviously we should have started with the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And the decisions were made, and I thank you for your support. And now do not seek any explanation as to why you do not want to give up the benefits and privileges against which you stand. And do not show your position! Ladies and gentlemen, I am putting to the vote a proposal: acceptance in second reading and generally as a law. [[B in m in s a l in]] It's the second reading, the second reading. Calm down! Get out of here. socio-economic programmes. draft Law on the State Economic, Social and Social Development Programme of Ukraine for 2012 and the main development directions for 2013-2014 (registration number 9159). Please vote. [[17:32:11]] For 245 The law is passed. By factions, please: Region Party - 188, "BUT – "Fathership" - 0, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" - 5, communists - 0, "Reforms for the Future" - 20, National Party - 20, non-fractional - 12. A draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine on the procedure for the establishment of housing and utility tariffs is being announced for consideration. [[Registration number 8641-d]] The reporter is Igor Lisov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m1.u73	Honorary colleagues, the Supreme Council of 18 November this year passed a bill on the basis of amendments to some Ukrainian legislation on the procedure for setting housing and utilities tariffs. The need for adoption of this bill is laid down by the National Programme for the Reform and Development of Housing and Utilities for 2009-2014. The bill provides for amendments to the Ukrainian Laws: the principles of national regulatory policy in the field of economic activity and housing and utility services. The bill proposes to shorten within 15 days the procedure for setting tariffs for residential services. In particular, it is proposed to introduce a procedure for bringing information to consumers on housing and utilities, price structure to discuss their needs, taking into account the appropriate position of the territorial communities.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m1.u74	Yes, dear fellows.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m1.u75	The committee decided to invite the Supreme Council to adopt the bill in the second reading and generally as a law. The Chief Legal Authority signed this document without notice.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m1.u76	Let's do some repairs. Who insists on reforming their ways? Vladimir Leschenko? No, no, there is, there is.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m1.u77	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Honourable Volodymyr Mihajlovich, prominent Ukrainian national deputies, the Constitution states that Ukraine is a democratic state. So all questions are solved democratically. Thus, before the adoption of this bill, our workers, the common people, participated in the formation of tariffs. Now this bill is putting an end to their participation. Now it will be up to the authorities to decide and only to say that such a tariff. So I suggested that the item "acts that set prices, housing-communal tariffs" should be excluded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m1.u78	Please, the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m1.u79	The committee has considered your proposal and considers the drafting of the bill to be acceptable to the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m1.u80	Amendment 3 of Vladimir Leschenko is put to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[17:35:31]] For-27 Correction not supported. So who else is insisting on their amendments? No, there isn't. Ladies and gentlemen, the proposal for a second reading committee and, as a whole, the bill of the draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the procedure for the establishment of housing and utility tariffs is put to the vote. [[Registration number 8641-d]] Please vote. [[17:36:09]] For 247 Decision taken. The law is passed. A draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the powers of public authorities to impose investment requirements is being announced for consideration. Asking the Committee to consider the matter in a simplified manner. [[17:36:47]] For the 220. Decision taken. The rapporteur is the first deputy head of the State Commission for the regulation of financial markets and services of Andrew Litwin. Please. The reporter is Vitaly Homutinnick.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m1.u81	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! The bill proposed for your consideration is designed to implement the 2011 National Action Plan. [[on the implementation of the 2010-2014 Economic Reform Programme]] The purpose of the bill is to improve the effectiveness of State supervision in the accumulation of pension insurance through the introduction of risk management requirements for the investment of pension assets and the quality requirements for the assets represented by the insurance reserves. The implementation of the bill will allow two regulators of non-bank financial services markets, namely: the National Commission for Public Regulation in Financial Services Markets, and the National Commission for Securities and Stock Markets to take effective measures to prevent unwarrantedly risky activities of non-state pensioners from investing in pension funds and insurance reserves. This, in turn, should ensure that public pension funds and insurance companies carry out their obligations to consumers of financial services, with a positive impact on the financial sustainability of pension funds and insurers. Dear National Deputies! The bill mentions the old names of regulators of non-bank financial services because the bill was prepared, submitted to the Supreme Council and registered in Parliament before the National Regulators Act became effective. This technical inaccuracies do not affect the content and orientation of the bill and can be completely corrected when preparing the bill for second reading. Based on what we have learned, please support the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m1.u82	Thank you, too. Vitaly Homutinnik, head of the Committee on Finance and Banking, Tax and Customs Policy.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m1.u83	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! The committee discussed bill 9027, introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the powers of the public authorities to impose investment requirements. The purpose of the bill is to ensure that non - state pension funds and insurance companies fulfil their obligations and to strengthen the protection of the property interests of consumers of financial services. The bill provides for the National Commission to regulate financial services markets, the right to set the only requirements for the quality of the volume and the level of credit ratings, assets that contain insurance reserves. This will make it possible to significantly improve the quality of insurance reserves as insurance companies and assets of non-state pension funds. That is, those requirements will only apply to those securities that go through the corresponding ratings and to those banks that are recommended, including the national commission from the point of view of their reliability. The committee has therefore considered the bill and recommends that it be accepted as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m1.u84	Ladies and gentlemen, if there is a need to discuss the bill, please register. Stanislaw Arjewitin, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m1.u85	Ladies and gentlemen, this is indeed a good offer, but in my opinion this is only the first step in improving the rating system and defining risks. This is a function that we are delegating to the authorized authority today, i.e. to define all these maximum limits, requirements, etc., precisely by the normative acts of the authorized authority. Perhaps this can be done at this stage, but we should bear in mind that the next step should be that we, at the legislative level, have to determine and record the criteria for these risks. And then, I think that's going to be our final decision on the correct question. Because the placement of insurance reserves, especially pension stocks, is a topic that can lead to the mistrust of our Ukrainians in financial institutions if they fail to implement it, so we have to be careful. My proposal is to support in the first reading, to enable the commission, the authorized body, to prepare these criteria, and then to determine if they do it right, maybe leave it behind, and if you have to take it to the legislative level, determine these criteria, take the second step. The first reading can support this legislative initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m1.u86	Corporal Vladimir. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m1.u87	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. The MP's "Reforms for the Future" will support this bill. And in principle, we could support it in general, not just in the first reading. By the way, I'm making the same offer to the hall. Of course, there is. And we're talking about the correct implementation and the over-the-term plan for the reform agenda in the direction of pension reform, which envisaged the creation of such a tool when we started to control the insurance companies that are currently running today, it's not clear what the requirements are. In this case, the ministry must carry out all the obligations that depend on it in an excellent way. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, let's make a proposal: Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m1.u88	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! Let's put it this way, I'll put it on the vote as a basis, if there's no objection, we'll put it to the vote as a whole. A proposal for adoption is put to the vote on the basis of the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the powers of public authorities to establish investment requirements. [[9027]] Based on the base. [[17:44:01]] For 272 Decision taken. Dear colleagues! There was a proposal from Vladimir Kaplienne. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m1.u89	Dear Volodymira Mikhailovich, if it is now in general, then the request to clarify the names in the text of the National Regulators Bill, in accordance with the adopted National Regulators Act. It's not a state commission, it's a national commission according to the law that's already been passed.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m1.u90	Dear colleagues, given this clarification, there is no objection to putting the vote to the vote? I'm betting on a motion for approval of the draft law as a law with clarification that the reporter just said. [[Registration number 9027]] Please vote. [[17:45:12]] For 270. The law is passed. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft Law on the Depository System of Securities has been announced. At the same time, there is a letter from the committee requesting that the bill be transposed in order to reconcile positions with other legislative acts. This is registration number 9428, 9428-1. I'm going to put this motion to the vote so that the Supreme Council can determine. I am voting on a motion to postpone consideration of the draft Law on Depository Accounting on the basis of the Committee's appeal. Please vote. [[17:46:14]] For-48 The decision is not taken. Then a friend’s suggestion is to consider the matter in a simplified way. [[17:46:35]] For 232 Decision taken. The rapporteur is Head of the National Commission of Securities and Stock Market Teveliev Dmitry Mihajlovich, as well as National Deputy Terjohin Sergey Anatoliyovich. The reporter is Vitaly Homutinnick.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m1.u91	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. For your consideration, a draft Ukrainian Securities Depository Act, developed by the Securities and Stock Market Commission, is proposed to implement the National Plan of Action for the Implementation of the Economic Reform Programme. To date, Ukraine’s depository system is operating according to the National Depository System Act, which was adopted in 1997. In recent years, legislation has undergone significant changes in Ukraine’s legislation. The Law on Securities and Stock Markets, Stock Exchange Society, Mortgage Bonds and others was passed. At the same time, the Ukrainian National Depository System Act does not fully meet the legislative changes and cannot fully ensure the safe and transparent operation of the depository system. So today, there is a need to reform the depository system, to adapt it to changes in Ukrainian legislation and to adapt it to trends in global financial markets and international standards of depository accounting of securities. The bill proposes to determine the legal principles of the depository system. Set up an order for the registration and confirmation of ownership of emission securities in the depository system. As well as the order in which the accounts are made by securities. The bill envisions the creation of a centralized depository system, by combining the actions of a single central depositary and depository institutions. It harmonizes the principle, order and activity of the depository system’s participants and the interaction between them. The bill establishes the authorization of the central depository, the requirement of its statutory capital and administration. Clearly defined functions of depository institutions. Orders and principles are provided for the interaction of the central depository and depository institutions. The adoption of the draft Law on Depository Accounting will remove existing gaps in legislation. We should point out what.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m1.u92	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m1.u93	Double logs, which is the reason for the raids. This bill can be seen as one step in the innovative development of the financial sector of the economy. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m1.u94	Thank you. Thank you. Yes. Terjehoin Sergey Anatoliyovich. None. Please, Vitaly Hometic.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m1.u95	Honourable Volodymyr Mikhailovich, a respected colleague, considered both bills. The first is 9427 by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the second alternative under registration number 9428-1 by the People's Deputies of Teryochin. The committee came up with a proposal to transpose these bills as far as possible to find out how the two concepts proposed by the authors could be combined. But if it's a decision to consider these bills, I think that if the House decides to adopt the Cabinet of Ministers bill, then I think we could take into account the position of the alternative bill in the second reading. So as a committee, I think we're going to consider any bill that's going to be adopted as a basis and we're going to work on taking a position in alternative projects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m1.u96	Ladies and gentlemen, if you would like to share in the discussion, please sign in. Names of the national MPs, please. Vladimir Karpuk passes on the right to speak to Stanislav Arzhewithin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m1.u97	Ladies and gentlemen, it would be right for us to consider two bills, because Terhochina also has a lot of right proposals, which are shared by scientific and scientific authorities. To understand what this is about, depository activity is the accounting of all the securities in Ukraine. I mean, whoever owns this information, you know, they own everything in Ukraine. So the question is unforgivable, and I'd like to pay attention. I'm going to vote today to adopt a bill in the first reading, because in terms of depository activity, we've gone too far in terms of this kind of underground competition. We have a national, a National State Depository, we have another state in the National Depository Bank walls, we have two more Depositaries, four that are actually competing. At the same time, we have many gaps today. For example, in our country today, there is a completely uncontrollable system of accounting for both the securities themselves and the depository system. Today, in our country at the legislative level, we have never been able to protect insider information. Today, depositories have not distributed among themselves who should separate the administrative and technological functions of all depositors. Vertical rules are broken. I am deeply convinced that in order to remove and build a normal model of depository activity in our country, we need to centralize the depository system. We need to define one central government depository that will shape all the rules of the game. This is about the administrative and technological nature of depository activities. I am convinced that at least 60 percent of the property of this depositary should be the state. This is information about the owners of the entire country. Only the state can protect such information. So I took the suggestions of Terhochin into account in the first reading and in the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m1.u98	Dear National Deputies! I'm voting on a proposal for adoption on the basis of bills, in order to register them. I'm betting on the vote for the first motion for adoption on the basis of the draft Securities Depository System Act, please vote. [[Registration number 9428]] [[government]] [[5:53:55]] For 267 Decision taken. A draft Law on Energy Efficiency of Buildings is being announced for consideration. I'm voting on a motion to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. [[17:54:31]] For 234 Decision taken. The rapporteur is National Deputy Odarchenko, author of the bill. None. Please, then, Maibeard Sergey of the Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m1.u99	Ladies and gentlemen of the people! The Committee considered the bill at its meeting on 7 December this year, but did not take a decision and requested that the people's deputies of Ukraine be identified by a vote. Such conclusions need to be weighed. The Chief Research and Expert Office notes that the bill needs substantial elaboration, as its implementation in the proposed draft form cannot adequately address that objective. In fact, the minimum requirements for energy characteristics of buildings in the draft law are not defined. Article 12 provides that these requirements, as well as their methods, are approved by the Cabinet of Ministers. This leads to a declarative nature of the whole bill. The Committee on Rules, Deputy Ethics and Security of the Supreme Council noted several regulatory violations during the preparation and submission of the bill. In particular, the lack of financial and economic justifications. The Committee on Budget Affairs proposes that a bill be sent to the subject of the right of legislative initiative to finalize. Since the bill has an impact on the income and expenditure portion of the budget. The Industrial Regulatory Policy and Enterprise Committee recommends that the bill be returned to the author for finalization. The Committee on the Fuel and Energy Complex, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security envisages rejecting the bill. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine does not support the bill. Since the bill does not identify who, for whom and under what conditions, the energy audit and energy passport services are provided, nor does it determine how to achieve energy conservation in the building. I'll be sure of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m1.u100	Ladies and gentlemen, who insists on discussing this matter? None. Then I will put to the vote a proposal for acceptance as a basis, if the proposal is not supported, then the bill will be rejected, or the Supreme Council may return its subject to the right of legislative initiative for further work. I'm betting on a proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Energy Efficiency of Buildings Act. [[Registration number 6426]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[17:57:23]] For the four of us. The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on State Procurement is being announced for consideration. [[on the introduction of the electronic reverse auction procedure]] [[Registration number 8633]] The Committee and the author propose to consider the matter in a simplified manner. I'm putting this proposal to the vote. [[17:58:01]] For 230 Decision taken. The reporter is the national deputy of Irina Gorin. The reporter is Anton Yatzenko. And from the committee? So you have four minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m1.u101	The respectable Vladimir Mihajlovich, respected colleagues, the area of State procurement is always a very delicate and sensitive issue, and despite the fact that a new law was passed a year and a half ago, which was very serious debate and further elaborated by the President, an expert evaluation and experts from international organizations, the World Bank, the Commission on the Adaptation of Ukrainian Law with European, nevertheless, corruption issues and the fact that officials in one way or another have an impact on public procurement remained open. Therefore, the bill I have proposed, its need and importance are dictated by both external and internal factors. External factors include that Ukraine is going to Europe, and adaptation to European legislation is simply necessary in this delicate and important issue, because the e-procurement system in the United States has been in operation since 1998, and all European countries have moved into this system since the middle of the past decade. Even our Russian neighbours have had such a law for seven years. Internal factors are, of course, the fact that the electronic procurement system is a very corrupt sphere, and officials who are able to influence by hand to decide who will be the winner of one or the other bids must be discontinued. The procedure itself takes 75 days, which is very long and so, well, on business and on a system that imposes a very heavy burden. Of course, any competitive advantage of one or the other has been reduced by what is happening under duress. The reverse auction system proposed by the bill maximizes the worker's exclusion from business, from those who provide goods, jobs, services and other types that are purchased by the buyer. Because everything will happen online on the Internet on special sites to be selected by the Ministry of Economy for the competition. Anything can be seen and controlled by anyone who wishes: and the participant and the non-participant. And, of course, the fact that competition here is going to increase a lot, the time that is going to go by on this option, which we have only proposed for 28 days, is not going to see who or how is involved in this process. And the reverse auction offers a way of lowering the price from the original one. And according to the data that we have processed and proposed statistics from different countries, the budget will be cut from 20 per cent to 30 per cent. It's the first reading. We did a lot of work. The bill was introduced at the beginning of the year. We have held dozens of round tables and conferences in various expert communities, worked with the World Bank and with the European Commission for the Adaptation of Legislation. We have taken into account a great deal of amendments and proposals. We have been commented on by the Supreme Council Scientific and Expert Office, and we will certainly take that into account as a second reading. The Cabinet of Ministers gave a positive conclusion. I ask you to support the bill on first reading. The Committee on Economic Policy had voted unanimously in favour of that decision. I beg your pardon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m1.u102	Yes, Your Honor, if there is a need to speak on this bill, please register. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, they'll be out in a minute, and then we'll be out. Vladimir Kaplienko, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m1.u103	Vladimir Mikhailovich, your honor, you know, I'm even surprised that I'm the only one in this room who wants to make a positive statement on this bill. You know, the MP's Reform for the Future will support this bill even as it is. Of course, it has a positive and this is the first positive step on the background of cost reduction on. In the state-of-the-art purchasing system. Of course, the experience of an appropriate foreign is also Europe, not only the United States, as Mrs. Gorin referred to today, have the benefit of electronic purchasing, including reverses, through reverse auctions, and, in particular, Europe, and Australia, which are carrying out such procedures that are now being implemented. Because of the positive things that are defined here, we want to pay attention to the following: first, of course, it is an open, open public auction that adds to every citizen of Ukraine as a natural or legal person to take part in this. Of course, shortening the time frame for public purchases is, in fact, three times, from 75 to 28 days is the first and decisive step forward. Of course we'll take the fucking bill. It's about flaws. The procedure, in our view, is subject to more thorough study. The second question is that security, including financial security, is quite difficult to provide through such a tool. So I think that this bill, in principle, needs to be developed in a second reading and brought to the level with which it was declared by the legislators. The MP's Reform for the Future will adopt this bill by 20 votes in the first reading. We'll work together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m1.u104	Ladies and gentlemen, no one's insisting on this? I'm voting on a proposal by the adoption committee on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on State Procurement. [[on the introduction of the electronic reverse auction procedure]] [[Registration number 8633]] Please vote. [[18:04:40]] For 239. Decision taken. The draft Law on Measures to Ensure the Permanent Functioning of Enterprises in the Defence and Industrial Complex is being announced for consideration. Zabarsky's national deputy, reporter and co-reporter, is the head of the National Security and Defence Committee of Anatoly Gritsenko. I'm voting on a motion to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[18:05:18]] For 228 Decision taken. Vladislav Valeriovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m1.u105	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! You will have before you a draft Ukrainian Law on Measures to Ensure the Permanent Functioning of Enterprises of the Defence and Industrial Complex. The need for adoption of this law is due to the complex financial situation in which there are companies of the defence and industrial complex that are part of the company, created a year ago, Ucroborophrm. This situation is caused and is largely related to loading and defence orders, and a gradual and planned reduction in military equipment has negatively affected the activities of the listed enterprises. Today, the existence of these enterprises is not only a matter of productive activity but also a matter of considerable debt. There are already examples of these companies being shut down from the supply network. For example, the Malisheva plant, known to all, is now periodically disconnected from the power supply network. I want to point out that this law provides for a partial restructuring of the debt in these enterprises. The total debt is 15 billion dollars. It's proposed to write and restructure, mostly fines, pennies in front of target funds of 759 million. I very much ask you to support this law in the first reading, and I ask you to join in preparing it for the second reading, because this law is very important and it will allow us to preserve and improve the financial activities of companies in the defence and industrial complex, which is very important for the defence capacity of our state. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m1.u106	Thank you. Coroner of the National Security and Defence Committee of Anatoly Gritsenko. Please, Anatoly Stepanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m1.u107	Dear colleagues! Our committee's decision is to recommend that the Supreme Council reject this bill. I'll give you some arguments. In fact, it is a bill that under cover of concern for the defence of businesses blesses irresponsibility, corruption, theft. The defense complex is not just a state of affairs, it has been proved by someone, and the responsibility has a name that has led them to it. And those people should either go to trial, or cover damage, people with specific names, regardless of whether they're in the Cabinet of Ministers or at the level of business managers. Because for each enterprise, a financial plan, a professional minister, and a minister of finance is approved each year. This is about 1.9 billion dollars, stealing 150 dollars from each family to cover someone’s irresponsibility. That's what this is about. And yet, in the explanatory note, it's falsely stated that there's no need for budget expenditure. And while the minister of finance against this bill, Natzbank firmly opposes this bill, and yet to those who lobby for irresponsibility, corruption and lobbyism, they propose to write down 1.9 billion. In front of whom? Before the budget, before the budget funds, before private banks, violating more than a dozen laws and the Constitution of Ukraine. That's what this law is. No normal person can vote for him. I suggest that the committee reject it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m1.u108	Ladies and gentlemen, please sign in. Names of the National Deputies, please take them to the board. Zabarsky, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m1.u109	I just want to correct a few things in a not-so-precise report. First of all, it's about debt, how. insists on a total of 15 billion, the legal envisaged restructuring and write-off of a total of 759 million, it's not about 1 billion, and so on. This is the first time. Secondly, this is the state of the enterprises in which they are now in very serious problems in this complex. These enterprises are the legacy of a socialist farming system. There are companies that have been prepared and planned to do very large tasks that we cannot load right now. I'm telling you again about cheating. For example, the Malisheva factory of 559 million dollars is subject to restructuring of only 103 million. Courtyard 61: out of 211 million, only 74. The Six-Kinning Star Penitentiary: Of the 39 million, only 50. I mean, once again, we're just healing and giving these enterprises the opportunity to get even again and start working in the right way. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m1.u110	No one insists on the performance? Please, Alexander Kuzmuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m1.u111	Respectful colleagues, a coreporter of his flaming talk, said a little false. The whole committee didn't reject the bill, we just shared our thoughts. And I wouldn't want the rostrum to be used with my own mind, not the committee's. Part of the committee is quite different from what the co-reporter said. And the problem is the next. You have to understand that the industries of the defence and industrial complex, they're entirely designed for other powers that the state needs today, they're reduced. And the funds, the basic funds, and the people held on, and so, year after year, debt arose. Today, there is a chance to end this. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m1.u112	Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. Please, Anatoly Gritsenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m1.u113	Thank you. I made the decision of the committee. Committee decision: recommend that the Supreme Council reject. This decision is made according to the quorum. If I were to now give the arguments that have been made, and the words that have been spoken, it would not be enough parliamentary language to overthrow those MPs who understand what it really means, and it's written in a note, 1.9 billion. Even if you believe the figures quoted by the author, you can't believe his own signed words that it doesn't need budget expenditure. That's not true. The bill doesn't agree with the government, the government doesn't consider it, Nazbank – against Minfin – against. And plus, I repeat, from each family, 150 dollars to cover someone’s irresponsibility. Instead of returning that money or sending it back to prison. If the power is strong, let it put it in order, not covering the irresponsibility of everyone paying later, 46 million people. This document cannot be supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m1.u114	Dear colleagues, taking into account all these suggestions, the warnings that have been made, please proceed to the vote. I'm voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Law on Measures to Ensure the Permanent Functioning of Enterprises of the Defence and Industrial Complex. [[Registration number 9346]] Please vote. [[18:14:19]] For 249 Decision taken. Thank you. A draft law on the approval of the President of Ukraine's decision to deploy a peacekeeping contingent for Ukraine's participation in the UN Mission of Stability in the Democratic Republic of the Congo is under consideration. [[9604]] The proposal to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[18:14:50]] For 224 Decision taken. Rapporteur – Minister of Defence Mikhailo Bronislavovich Ježel, co-rapporteur – head of the National Security and Defence Committee Anatoly Stepanovich Grizenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m1.u115	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. On September 23, this year, the United Nations Secretariat addressed Ukraine regarding the deployment of the Ukrainian helicopter unit to the Democratic Republic of the Congo. Ukraine’s military forces are able to prepare for the tightening of the deadlines and send a helicopter unit of four MI-24 combat helicopters to the mission and a total of 200 personnel to meet the requirements of the United Nations. The situation today, together with the United Nations Secretariat, has dealt with basics without furnaces, organizational, logistical, and technical issues related to the deployment of a peacekeeping contingent. If approved by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the contingent will be deployed in the eastern part of Ukraine, at airports in the cities of Goma and Bunia. [[basic]] [[backup]] These airports have all the necessary conditions for the deployment, operation, security, and comprehensive provision of the unit. The main tasks of the peacekeeping contingent are to conduct air intelligence, observe, conduct deterrence, search and rescue operations. Operational command of the units is carried out by United Nations commanders in the Democratic Republic of the Congo. A United Nations organization was organized to provide housing, food, drinking water, and fuel. The security and defence of the unit’s locations at the base airports will be carried out by designated units in the United Nations general military defence system located there. The unit will be reassigned to a district task in accordance with the Secretariat’s terms. Its transportation will be carried out and carried out at the expense of the United Nations. Financing expenses.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m1.u116	Microphone, please turn on
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m1.u117	Ladies and gentlemen, the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on Approval of the President of Ukraine's Decision to deploy a peacekeeping contingent to Ukraine's United Nations Mission of Stability in the Democratic Republic of the Congo will have a positive impact on strengthening Ukraine's international authority, and will boost our country's welcome as a member of the organization. I propose approval of the draft law.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m1.u118	Thank you. Mr. Gricenko Anatoly Stepanovich, head of the National Security and Defence Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m1.u119	Dear colleagues, the committee's decision to recommend that the Supreme Council reject the President's bill. We understand that in today's poverty, our soldiers will go to any war just to keep their families alive and make sure they have their lives. But it is not possible to make irresponsible decisions of state. At a meeting of the committee, I asked the minister of defense for a transcript. "How did it happen that the papers were submitted by the President, and there's even a number and the date of the decree is not indicated. Has there been a meeting of the PNB? When was that? Who was present and how did they vote?" The answer is, "The POPA meeting took place by lettering." It is a constitutional body led by the President that has been turned into a letter when discussing the issue of the utmost importance. Because India took its helicopters from there. Europeans and Americans don't want to go there. And we're throwing our soldiers into a dangerous situation. Let's put up combat missions, read the note, fire support. We're sending combat helicopters, and it's not the first time, twice in Côte d'Ivoire, now up to 200 people. This situation cannot be supported when Ukraine is turned into a taxi for peacemaking. Drop it, drop it, drop it. And after that, no economic gains, no profits. Soldiers lose their health, lose their lives, and then do nothing for the country. I repeat the committee's decision to recommend that the Council reject this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m1.u120	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please sign up for this discussion. Please, the names of the national deputies, please. People's Deputy Krajnyi, the "BUT" faction is "The Fatherland." None.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m1.u121	Yes, there is, there Vladimir Mikhailovich, there is. Yes. Please pass the word to Mikola Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m1.u122	Mikola Tomenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m1.u123	Dear colleagues, I would like to continue with my colleague's opinion of Anatolia Grizzenka, expressing concern that I do not understand what the National Security and Defence Council is doing in the country. Today, the strategy for national security and defence is so incomprehensible and inexplicable that we constantly get into some form of begging or time-consuming stay of our contingent, and we intrude on an order that responds to offers, send or pass. Continue our presence in Côte d'Ivoire or Liberia. Now the situation from Congo, well, absolutely, I don't think it's prepared just to guarantee the safety of our military personnel, not only from understanding our national and economic interests, which we're not talking about here, but even for the first time, there's no period for a peacekeeping contingent. That is not what we had before if we were filing documents and didn’t know how many of them were going to be there. All we know is that the UN Security Resolution will be operational until 30 June 2012. Is our contingent going to be up to 30, or is it going to be early? Will it be longer? Besides, I'm always talking about this formula, and I can't understand how the financial element is solved. We say that the state budget is financed and then compensated. So I'd like us to listen for once to the situation where we're sending our contingents, how, how we've compensated for these costs. Because it's not a small cost. And I think we need to understand that we guarantee the lives and safety of the people that are there. We have national interests. We have some economic projects and we have some economic gain. To this day, we put the lives of our military personnel at risk and receive nothing. Because the situation is extremely risky. The situation is extremely unpredictable. And most of the countries that had been there before had withdrawn their troops. So if Vladimir Mikhailovich is in the mood to vote, let's at least set a clear date so that we can understand the term of the peacekeepers. And I support the committee's position, and I don't think we should make that decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m1.u124	Taras Blackwall, the Reform Group for the Future. Jaroslav Suhi will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m1.u125	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues of the Ukrainian National Deputies! The reform group for the future will vote in favour of the decision. And now I want to say a few words from myself as a person who's actually been honest for two years, from the call to the caller, it's been in the army, and it's not a pity. Not in Ukrainian and then in the Soviet army. One who doesn't want people in pursuit to be seen as an institution of noble huts. These are the people who went into the army. It's not about soldiers who go on call. This is about officers who went professionally to the army. Which are asked at those points. And it is often not only because it is the only way for them to secure a decent wage and provide for their families. And they want to go there very often because they're still muskies. And they probably wouldn’t want them to cry like that! Our task and, above all, the Ministry of Defence, first of all, to decide whether these documents should be truly irreprehensible. And there's a problem with terms, and so on. And our job is to make sure that it doesn't go the way Kosovo did with ours, there, in fact, not the military, but the police parts, when they, our boys, fell under free command and dumped them without cover on any objects, etc. To reconcile all the nuances of command, responsibility, and so forth. In these circumstances, I think we have to express our respect and gratitude to our boys who are fighting for the image of Ukraine at last in these very dangerous hot spots, which in themselves strengthen the defensiveness of our army, which today cannot provide any flight, training or normal education, and which in this way make even enough worth living for their families. So I urge you to vote for this, but I would very much ask that you then give a few more, literally one minute, to the Secretary of Defense to answer by the terms they're headed for, once. Second, he confirmed that.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m1.u126	Microphone. Please complete your opinion.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m1.u127	Confirmed that it was only voluntary. I wanted us to hear it officially.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m1.u128	Jaroslav Suhi, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m1.u129	Vladimir Mihajlovich, I would like to give the floor to the real minister of defense, not to the operatic, Kuzmuk Alexander Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m1.u130	Alexander Ivanovich, please, your microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m1.u131	It's strange to hear when they say, "You see, people, they send combat helicopters with guns, with ammunition for use!" Well, it's strange to me, and why would military personnel be involved in peacekeeping operations, with peace? That's what they're up to. That's what they're for. And they have to be ready for that. Now for the situation. Yeah, I don't like it either, and yesterday I said, the position of the Ministry of Finance. Those who observe that there is no government budget when the President sends a bill to the Supreme Council. Excuse me, Your Honor! Ensure the decision of the National Security and Defence Council and the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Second, yes, the deadlines are tight, but no one is forcing us to move troops there immediately. Please conduct a real, real, not worded, renaissance, send an operating group, meet an army there and organize their combat work. And our job is to run them, to provide and control what conditions they're in. They're right there. And it's a good thing it's in Africa. We'd love to run to Iraq, we'd love to run to Afghanistan, yeah, thank God there's nothing in Europe, and we don't have to be there, and we'll be there. Thank you and ask for your mandate by June 30th.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m1.u132	Peter Cibenko, a faction of Communists.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m1.u133	Thank you. Communist faction, Peter Cibenko. Dear colleagues, honourable citizens of Ukraine, the faction of the Ukrainian Company, will not vote in favour of this bill. The other one. We are absolutely consistent in this regard, because some of our colleagues voted earlier, pleasing their President, sending others to some countries; now others are voting to please their President by sending them to another country. Both are sending the sons of the Ukrainian people to war. The second thing I'd like to pay attention to. Dear colleagues, have you noticed why this need arose? As a result, India withdrew its contingent, and the helicopter that took part in the mission withdrew. Why did you respond? Is it not because they do not want the sons of the Indian people to die in a foreign war? We should think about that too. Third. Dear colleagues, we understand that we understand that we are sending our boys to war. This is evidenced, in fact, that no one is hiding it, for it is clearly stated in the document that each of the helicopters who are heading will have five battle kits, that is, those heading for a helicopter war, 200 individual convoys, and 40 with only one unit. Dear colleagues, once again, in Ukraine today there are enough problems to solve some problems on another continent, another war, sending our boys there. So once again, I stress that the faction of the Company of Ukraine, being absolutely consistent in this regard, will not vote in favour of this document. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m1.u134	Mikhailo Bronislavovich, please make a proposal on the date.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m1.u135	The date is set until 30 June. And as for the second question. Everyone goes voluntarily, there is no man who goes by force, there is no man in this unit.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m1.u136	That's how we can record it: by June 30. Yeah?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m1.u137	By June 30th.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m1.u138	Thank you. Honorary colleagues, with this proposal in mind, I am voting on the proposal to approve the Ukrainian Act of Approval of the President of Ukraine's decision to deploy a peacekeeping contingent to Ukraine's participation in the UN Mission of Stabilisation in the Democratic Republic of the Congo. [[Registration number 9604]] Please vote. I remind you that the committee has made a negative decision on this issue. [[18:29:53]] For 247 The decision is adopted, or approved. Honourable National Deputies, the draft Act amending Appendix No. 3 to the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2011 is being announced for consideration. [[on the State Geology Service]] [[Registration number 9543]] Committee proposal: To consider the issue of a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[18:30:29]] For 232 Decision taken. The rapporteur is the first deputy head of the State Geology Service and the co-rapporteur of the Committee on Budget Affairs, Valeriy Baranov.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m1.u139	Dear Volodymyr Mihajlovich, distinguished national MPs, is submitting to your consideration a draft Ukrainian Act amending Appendix No. 3 to the Ukrainian Act "On the State Budget for Ukraine 2011". The draft act establishes a redistribution of the total amount of budgetary allocations foreseen by the Minecology and Natural Resources for 2011 by reducing the amount of labour costs to two million 613,000 dollars from the natural reserve fund and by increasing the amount of labour costs to the same amount for the Degree Geology Service and the Ukrainian Reef within one budget manager, the Minnorda. The need to adopt such a bill is due to the fact that two services, the State Geological Service and the Ministry of Nature, were maintained within the 2011 budget allocations. which completes its liquidation, and the newly created State Department of Geology and the nadar of Ukraine. And there's a marginality for this service in 136 government officials. The adoption of the law will help to avoid debt from wages in the newly created central executive body at the expense of, I emphasize, the savings of the natural-intelligence fund. The draft law is in agreement with the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine, the Ministry of Economic Development and the Ministry of Justice, and is supported by the Committee on Budgets. Request: To support the bill as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m1.u140	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Head of the Committee on Budget Affairs, Valérie Alexiyovich Baranov May I have the committee's decision, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m1.u141	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, honourable deputies! The Committee on Budgets considered the bill yesterday. Science and expertise is what supports it. The Ministry of Finance, too. The committee supported him. Please support him and you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m1.u142	Dear colleagues, no objection? I'm voting on the proposal. Vladimir Karpuk, one minute, take off the vote, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m1.u143	Vladimir Karpuk, "Our Ukraine". Of course, when there is debt from a salary, it has to be paid to people. That's understandable. But he's warning two questions. First. The restructuring or reform or administrative reform that has been so discussed ends with the creation of new services: the patronage of vice-premiers. And reorganization actually leads to a lack of wages for those who come to the new service. It's all in the Ministry of Ecology system. And I think you could view it as a budget provision for this ministry. The other one. The funds allocated are more for the natural-intelligence business, for the animal and plant cadastre of the Red Book is not used. During the year, no one moved his finger to make sure that the funds were spent on the assignment. So you can see that there is no budgetary discipline in the Ministry of Ecology. But we have to vote that people get their wages. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m1.u144	Thank you. Respectful colleagues, evidently fair criticism, must be taken into account. A proposal for a Committee on Adoption is put to the vote on the basis and as a whole of the draft Act on Amendments to Appendix No.3 to the Ukraine Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2011. [[on the State Geology Service]] [[Registration number 9543]] Please vote. [[18:34:31]] For 271 The decision is adopted, or approved. A draft Act amending article 51 of the Ukrainian Budget Code is being announced for consideration. [[on costing the maintenance of business and economic missions]] [[Registration number 9561]] The Committee recommends that a simplified procedure be considered. Please vote. And the reporter is Zosula Ruslan Petrovich, please. [[18:35:06]] For 227 Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m1.u145	Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! The draft Ukrainian Law amending article 51 of the Ukrainian Code of Budget, or TEM, is being considered. [[on costing the maintenance of business and economic missions]] At present, according to article 51, part 7, of the Ukrainian Code of Budget, expenses relate to the functioning of Ukraine’s foreign diplomatic institutions, including expenses for the maintenance of employees other than military attachés, are made exclusively through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine. The system of financing trade and economic missions that existed before is outdated, and practice has shown that it has made it much more difficult to fulfil the responsibilities that rely on these structures. THEM has experienced considerable difficulties in its activities with the allocation of funds for their maintenance, material and technical support, and staffing. This hindered the operational performance of external tasks, and the TEM itself did not have any information on the financing of the situation in which they were located. At present, foreign diplomatic institutions are planning to provide, restore, trade and economic missions in order to improve the effectiveness of Ukraine's external economic activities. Responsibility for organizing the activities of the mission suggests that the Ministry of Economic Development and Trade of Ukraine be designated. The President's decree has already been approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The adoption of the law does not require additional funding from the state budget of Ukraine. In essence, these funds are foreseen by the Ministry of Internal Affairs as the chief budget manager. With the adoption of the bill, the funds will only be redistributed between the Ministry of Economic Development and the Ministry of Economic Development, i.e. there will only be a change of principals. Since the issue is extremely important to improve the effectiveness of the work of the TEM, a draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Article 51 of the Ukrainian Budget Code is proposed. [[on the allocation of support costs for commercial and economic workers]] To be accepted as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m1.u146	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Valerius Alexiyovich Baranov.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m1.u147	I'll be brief. The Budget Committee supports this bill and I ask you to vote for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m1.u148	Dear colleagues, who denies this? Are there speakers? Please sign up, I can see what's going on. May I have the names of the people's deputies on the board? Alexander Stoyan, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m1.u149	The Suhi's got something clever to say, so I'll pass on the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m1.u150	Jaroslav Dry microphone, please. Then Taras Cranville or who?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m1.u151	Thank you, Alexander Mikolayovich. Dear colleagues, I or the drafter of the bill did not understand, or the bill itself could not understand. You remember well that just recently, in April 2010, a decree issued by the President of Ukraine on some of the issues of representing Ukraine’s economic interests abroad, which clearly states: The Ministry of Foreign Affairs is to ensure that Ukraine’s diplomatic representations from economic and communications departments are made available abroad. That’s why we’re going to get rid of it. Maybe you're confused, maybe this law has been in the session room since 2007. You can't do that. How can we put beyond diplomatic representation our trade and economic missions? Colleagues, who are abroad, who are present at exhibitions of industry, commerce, and so forth, who are serving them? These are our economic diplomats who are working on the relationship that helps us to have, to sign some protocols or other contracts. So you just can't definitely do that.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m1.u152	Yes, please, who will it be, Vladimir Cappleyenko, or Taras Crnwell? Please, Taras Blackwall.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m1.u153	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues of the Ukrainian National Deputies! I would very much like to see this kind of legislation that eventually regulate government-based distributions and finance, and the Ministry of Economics and Foreign Affairs is a government that has been introduced and presented by the Cabinet of Ministers. A number of questions arise for us. First, these are the questions that Jaroslav Suhi just said. One second. How do you really physically isolate those missions, how do you distribute the rent money that's on the premises where they're located, and usually within, within the embassy? How will these costs be counted? How are we going to livelyly cut the budget of the Foreign Ministry? No one can explain. These missions have been implemented through diplomatic representations. The president suggested it, we supported it. Now there's a completely misunderstood initiative, I say again, out of order. This initiative, among other things, has not yet been considered by the Committee on Foreign Affairs. We don't see the position of the Foreign Ministry, we don't know what's going to happen. We have fears that they're just going to die because in that case, they're going to need five times, not two, not three, or more times, more money to ensure their existence. Today, a whole series of funds, this is joint funding, which goes directly to diplomatic relations, and to the work of these missions, in one form of funding. Under such conditions it is not possible to vote for it. I would very much like, if there is a consolidated position in the government on this issue, let there be a government bill, let this bill be presented by both the Ministry of Economics and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and then we can take it seriously. And so, in a situation like this, the MP's reform group for the future can't support this initiative in principle. Because we think she's hurting.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m1.u154	Ladies and gentlemen, I think we could all read in an explanatory note that the committee has prepared, which is the position of the ministries and authorities. There's a big fight coming, and we need to make a decision with you that will benefit the interests of Ukraine. I am voting on the proposal of the adoption committee on the basis of the draft Law amending article 51 of the Ukrainian Budget Code. [[on costing the maintenance of business and economic missions]] [[Registration number 9561]] Please vote. [[18:42:08]] For 246 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, yes, here, based on the fact that there's nothing to rule here and to offer. There's no objection, then we won't. Him? Well, that's what we took for granted. There are objections to accepting it as a whole. So let the committee work and agree. Well, I'm saying, let the committee work out and reconcile positions between ministries and departments. The draft Law amending the Final Provisions of the Ukrainian Law on certain issues of debt for natural gas and electricity consumed is being announced for consideration. [[concerning the extension of the duration of the action]] [[Registration number 9551]] The committee's proposal to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. Please vote. And the reporter is again Igor Głushchenko. [[18:43:03]] For 227 Decision taken. Igor Głushchenko is a reporter and co-rapporteur, head of the Committee on Finance and Banking, Vitaly Homutinnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m1.u155	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Mihajlović, distinguished people's deputies, allow us to take this opportunity to congratulate the Supreme Council, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, on its multi-thousandthousandth anniversary of the country's brightest professional holiday, Energy Day, which is today on 22 December. Wish strong health, emergency work and successful autumn-winter loads. Thank you. About the bill. [[No. 9581]] The purpose of the bill is to extend the duration of the Ukrainian Law on certain issues of debt for natural gas consumption and electricity consumption for 6 months until 30 June 2012. [[No.3319-6 of May 12, 2011]] Please support this bill as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m1.u156	Thank you. Please make the decision of the committee, Vitaly Homettinick.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m1.u157	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, we passed a bill six months ago on some of the issues of debt for natural gas consumed and electricity consumed, which was proposed to write off the debts of the National Shareholder Company Naftogaz Ukraine and other structures that carried out transportation of natural gas and in accordance with the law. the production and transport of electricity. To date, we can say that the government has failed to complete all procedures related to the implementation of this law. It runs until January 1st of this year, the following year. So the proposal is simple, to continue for six months the law that was passed. And we certainly need to accept this in our first reading and in general as a law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m1.u158	Thank you. Dear colleagues who insist on discussing it, please sign up. And the names of the people's deputies. Vladimir Karpuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m1.u159	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! Vladimir Karpuk, "Our Ukraine". We continue to act on some of the issues of debt for natural gas consumption and electricity. For this reason, according to operational information, this debt is about 500 million dollars. But how is the issue of overcoming this debt resolved? The target margin for the current tariff is introduced. So there's going to be an increase in electricity tariffs. Another moment. There's more to it than that. So here comes the chain: energy suppliers – DP – energy supply – energy producers. Energy producers have a debt owed to Derjfond, the Reserve, a debt for coal payments that was restructured by 2023. This debt will also become a question and a write-off of this debt. So the bill is not as simple as it seems. And I think you can accept it without sufficient financial and economic justification, without the conclusion of the Cabinet of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m1.u160	Dear National Deputies! The committee proposes to adopt the bill as a whole. No warning? I'm voting on this proposal. On the adoption as a basis and as a whole of the draft Law on Amendments to the Final Provisions of the Ukrainian Law on Certain Debt Issues for Natural Gas and Electricity consumed. [[concerning the extension of the duration of the action]] Registration number 9581. Please vote. [[18:48:03]] For 247 The law is passed, thank you. The draft Law amending the Final Provisions of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Tax Code on Natural Gas and Electricity Taxation is being announced for consideration. [[concerning the extension of the duration of the action]] [[Registration number 9582]] The committee suggests that the issue be dealt with in a simplified manner. Please vote. [[18:48:35]] For 232 Decision taken. The reporter is Igor Głushchenko. The reporter is Vitaly Homutinnick.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m1.u161	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! The purpose of the bill is to extend the bill by 6 months, i.e. until 30 June 2012, by the Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Tax Code on Natural Gas and Electricity Taxation. [[No.3320-6]] [[of 12 May 2011]] Taking into account the extension of the Ukrainian Law on Certain Debt Issues for Natural Gas and Electricity, which we have just adopted. Thank you. Oh, I'd like you to accept it as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m1.u162	Vitaly Hometic, please make a decision to the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m1.u163	Dear colleagues! Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! The question is similar, but it is related to the amendment of another bill on amendments to the Ukrainian Tax Code on Natural Gas and Electricity Taxation. So I'm not going to talk about the point, she gets it. These are interconnected bills, and the deadline is also extended for six months, but it is already in the Tax Code. Therefore, the recommendation is similar to that of adopting a bill in the first reading and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m1.u164	Dear colleagues, no objection? I am voting on the proposal of the Committee on Adoption as a basis and as a whole of the draft Law on Amendments to the Final Provisions of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Tax Code on Natural Gas and Electricity Taxation. [[concerning the extension of the duration of the action]] [[Registration number 9582]] Please vote. [[18:50:50]] For 245 The law is passed. A draft Act amending the Code of Taxation of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. [[on the provision of an upgrade of the fleet of ambulances]] [[Registration number 9560]] The committee suggests that the issue be dealt with in a simplified manner. Please vote. The reporter is Yuri Karakai, please. [[18:51:19]] For 226 Decision taken. The reporter is Yuri Karakai. The reporter is Vitaly Homutinnick.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m1.u165	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! Perhaps the most expensive thing in a person's life is the life of his family, his loved ones and his citizens in the country where he lives. This bill is aimed at resolving this issue, for unfortunately there are many health issues in our country. And it was designed in preparation for the final part of the Euro - 2012 Championship in Ukraine, because by signing the relevant documents, Ukraine made a commitment, including to providing effective medical care, including prompt medical care if necessary. According to the Ministry of Health, most of the ambulances used in our hospitals have practically made their own resources. And the specific provisions of the bill are to be suspended until 31 December 2012 from taxes on excise taxes and taxes on the added cost of the import and supply of ambulances which are intended to be used by health and cost institutions solely at the expense of the State Budget and will be used in hospital facilities. [[Commodity position 8703]] Sanctions are envisaged for the purposeless use of these cars. The company that's going to be theirs or the institution is going to use it more faithfully, and it's going to have to return the corresponding taxes to the budget. And once Euro is done, these machines will work in Ukraine and work for the health of the people of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m1.u166	Thank you. The head of the Vitaly Hometics Committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m1.u167	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! The committee considered the bill. The initiative is clear. Socially, the initiative is designed to ensure that those cars that are transported to Ukraine during the following year are only specialized ambulances. We need to equip our park with high-quality and modern technology to be ready for next year's Euro-2012 championship at the right level, including with modern cars. But there are some technical details in the bill, and on behalf of the committee, I propose to accept it in the first reading and in general, that was the committee's recommendation, but given the position that I'm going to read for the transcript. For the transcript, I note that in section I, paragraph 2, of the bill, the words "importing ambulances" should be replaced by the words "importing into the customs territory of Ukraine of specialised means of transport such as ambulances under heading 8703 according to the UCTZED." [[commercial position 8703 according to UTZED]] That's the second position. In the second paragraph of section I, after the words "high-speed ambulances", replace "specialized means of transport such as commercial ambulances 8703 according to OCTZED". [[commercial position 8703 according to UTZED]] These technical clarifications are made in order to.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m1.u168	Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m1.u169	Technical clarifications are made to prevent any doubt that the vehicles that will be imported will not be used for this particular direction, that is to say, to serve as quick assistance. So after consulting, we wrote exactly the kind of paper that would fit the essence of the bill by a hundred percent. Thank you for your attention. And given this proposal, the recommendation is to accept as a basis and as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m1.u170	Please sign up, Your Honor. Please have the names of the national deputies: Vladimir Karpuk, Jaroslav Suhi, then Caplienko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m1.u171	Vladimir Karpuk, "Our Ukraine". We support the adoption of this law and, in general, the technical amendments that the committee head has been talking about. The importance of adopting this law is not limited to providing quick medical assistance to Euro -2012, for in the 2012 budget, the Ministry of Health has asked for almost one billion dollars because the endurance of the ambulance fleet is nearly 90 percent. When I looked back in 2012, and today the College of the Ministry of Health was held, I looked around, that is, the district budgets can provide only a dozen ambulances. The number of them is small, needs, in fact, State support for this problem. The 2012 budget, which was adopted today, allocated 320 million dollars for purchase, just for the purchase of ambulances. This amount is clearly not enough, and this law will therefore help to secure the original chain. Because the success of reform and health care also depends on it. Because the flaws that are pointed to in piloting areas are the provision of quick help, the inability to go on an emergency call. Therefore, this law is important and must be adopted both on the basis and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m1.u172	Thank you. Jaroslav Suhi, microphone, faction of the Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m1.u173	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! I might say something not very pleasant or popular right now. By the 2012 Euro, Ukraine had already spent a considerable amount of money. So far, I haven't received an answer to the question: how much of this budget has our Ukrainian manufacturers won to restock airports, build stadiums, roads and so forth? If these cars are going to buy like again, like one lady once bought and now we don't know what to do with them, it'll just be a shame. Why couldn’t these cars be purchased from us in Ukraine, a Ukrainian manufacturer? We have the power and the ability to release them here, in general, I do not deny that such a step is necessary, even if only because we will increase the number of these cars for a certain amount of money, and we can finally replace those old ambulances that have been going there since 1968. As a whole, therefore, this law certainly needs to be supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m1.u174	Thank you. Vladimir Kaplienko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m1.u175	Thank you very much, Vladimir Mikhailovich! The MP's "Reforms for the Future" will support this bill, but in the first reading. I'll explain why. Either we make additional amendments out of the voice now, or we don't support the vote as a whole. This is what we're talking about. With all due respect for this bill, with all the relevance for reform in this field, for the renewal of the car park, for the need to support the commitments made in Ukraine in the preparation and implementation of the Euro-2012, there are still some observations, four of them, but I will stop for just two. First. Think of the text. By December 30, 2012, the tax on the added cost of the supply operation, including the import of cars and so forth, is exempt. Say, please, what's "sufficient" and "including"? I'll tell you. As a person who reads the law, it's about all the products that go to health facilities and cars. I think "including" should be cleaned, then we'll support it. And the second question. Please tell me, what is it about ordering the appropriate budget administrators who may have brought a car that does not have VAT tax at least? So, if we clean this up, then this law will really be aimed at reforming this system, renovating the park and shaping a park that will go exclusively for health care, and not to upgrade other health care devices that, by the way, are not involved. So we're making a proposal for a different edition, supporting the editor of Mr. Homutinnick, who has been floating today, but with the deletion of the issue of surgery. including transactions, as well as the removal of funds at the request of the appropriate authorising officers. Thank you. It's worth it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m1.u176	Thank you. Please, Vitaly Hometic, there is. Do you support such suggestions or not, as Vladimir Kaplienko has just said in order to accept them as a whole? No, then we will have to accept it in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m1.u177	And all we can do is accept it in the paper that was proposed by the committee. This proposal is in line with the relevant ministries and offices. The proposal of the People's Deputy Kaplanka enslaves the essence of this bill. Nevertheless, the recommendation is to vote in the first reading and in general in the form proposed. And the faction's request, which essentially supports this bill, to trust in the committee's professional level and also to vote in favour of the bill as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m1.u178	Dear colleagues! What we do. I have to tell you that the Cabinet of Ministers has asked for this bill to be supported in order to bring more than 2,000 specialized medical aids, cars for specialized medical care, that is, ambulances. If we don't now, then we won't have a decision to make. Please, Vladimir Kaplienko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m1.u179	You know, Vladimir Mikhailovich, my colleagues are here.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m1.u180	I'm just talking to your friend. Make a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m1.u181	So my colleagues came up, and they were convinced that this bill did not provide for abuses of the kind that I had stressed. If so, I made my offer. If it's not supported, let's put it all together so that no one, God forbid, has said that the MP's "For the Future Reforms" group denies this initiative. Please, we're taking our notes, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m1.u182	So, can we put it on the ground as a whole? Dear colleagues, I would like to say that if all objections were removed, the proposal to enact a draft law on the basis and in general to amend the Ukrainian Tax Code with the clarifications that came from the committee. [[on the provision of an upgrade of the fleet of ambulances]] [[Registration number 9560]] Please vote. [[19:03:42]] For 274 The law is passed. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2011 on the increase in expenditure on technical restocking of coal-fired enterprises is being announced for consideration. The committee suggests that the issue be considered in a simplified procedure. Please vote. Reporter Vladislav Lukyanov, please. [[19:04:12]] For 229 Decision taken. Vladislav Lukyanov, reporter, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m1.u183	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies and invited. The legislative proposal aims to ensure technical restocking of state-owned coal companies. The bill thus provides for an increase of 1.5 billion dollars in the expenditure of the State Budget General Fund, the Ministry of Energy and the coal industry under the budget programme for the technical restocking of state-owned coal and peat-producing enterprises. The source of compensation for such expenses is a tax on the added value of goods imported into Ukraine. So the bill's position is balanced by the revenue and expenditure of the state budget. In addition, the proposal for a transfer to the general budget of the State Agency for State-owned corporate rights and property in the amount of 60 million dollars and loans from the Ministry of Agrarian Policy and Food to support the technical equipment of agricultural enterprises was supported during the consideration of the issue. At the same time, the bill needs clarification and correction, well, we've already taken that into account. The committee decided to recommend Bill 9564 to the Supreme Council as a result of the first reading review to be adopted as a basis and as a whole as a law taking into account the proposals made in the Committee's letter to the Committee on Budget Questions on this bill. Taking this into account, please support the committee's proposal and vote on the bill as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m1.u184	Valery Baranov from the committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m1.u185	Ladies and gentlemen, the Committee on Budgets has considered the law, draft Law 9564. The main scientific and expert office supports this bill, and the Minfin also supports it. The Committee on Budget Affairs took a decision and supported it. And I'd like to ask you to back him up, too, according to tradition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m1.u186	Dear colleagues, who insists on discussing the matter? Vladimir Karpuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m1.u187	Vladimir Karpuk, "Our Ukraine". Of course, when we buy the gas at $416, the importance of coal industry, coal in the country's energy security is increasing. And what I want to focus on is that in the budget and in 2011 there's a significant amount -- 5 billion dollars for restocking mines. The following year, the draft budget, which was not adopted today, offered 9 billion. So these are significant sums. We propose that by the end of the fiscal year we get one and a half billion dollars, that's a lot of money. Because in order to get that amount, you also need to approve the budget programme, the type, the list of jobs, the list of equipment to be delivered, so to get that amount -- it raises some doubts. I want to focus on that and attract the Cabinet of Ministers. Once we're singled out, so we don't have to set aside just to make a distinction, and so that this sum is actually won. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m1.u188	The Turmanov People's Deputies, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m1.u189	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! Before I say it, on behalf of the miners and industry, I would like to thank the deputies who supported the coal finance industry twice this year in this sessional room. And thanks to this support, this year, for the first time in the history of an independent Ukraine, miners work in a sustainable manner. And this year, 80 million tons of coal will be produced. This is greater than 15 million in 2009 and 10 more than in 2010. I want to answer my colleague no offense. What he said over there, big money's coming out. You will see the 2010 and 2011 budget. This year, 500 million is allocated for technical refurbishment. This year, 300 were allocated. That is why we held talks and talks with the Cabinet of Ministers. I am very grateful to the Committee on Budgets. I want us to pay off the loans we have in 2010-2011. I would like the Sverdlov Mazad workers, who repair very high-level and high-quality mining equipment, to be paid as well. Because it's money. I would like everyone to support this bill. This will be a good gift before the New Year of the Industry and Mines of our Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m1.u190	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the committee's proposal, if there is no objection, to accept as a basis and as a whole, taking into account the committee's proposals, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2011 on the increase in expenditure on technical restocking of industrial enterprises. [[Registration number 9564]] Please vote. [[19:10:36]] For 246 The law is passed. Dear colleagues, we have two and a half questions to consider. So I ask you to be patient. Vitaly Homutinnick, about half the question, there's a clarification. In preparation for the signing of the law, it became clear that there was yet another clarification to be put to the vote. May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m1.u191	Colleagues, given that we have so many projects today, there is one technical clarification and a request for support. Bill 9345-d, this is about the distribution of VAT to livestock farmers. This is about the distribution of 70 percent from January 1st to the special fund: 70 percent from the processors, 30 percent from the special fund. But given what's left of the week actually before New Year's, there's still a proposal to write in the law that the form is not set apart by the Cabinet of Ministers or there by the Ministry of Finance or by the Ministry of Agrarian Politics, but to write it in the body of the law. So, literally, I'm going to read this to supplement this law. Paragraph 3 of section II of this Act 9345-d should be amended as follows: “To establish that, pending the approval of the legal and regulatory act on the form of the settlement of the amount of compensation and the information on the amounts of compensation paid, the producers shall calculate the amounts of compensation in accordance with the order established by this Act in arbitrary forms of calculation and information”. [[Reprocessing enterprises]] So it's a technical refinement that doesn't complicate the work of the Cabinet of Ministers.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m1.u192	I'm betting on the vote on that clarification. Please vote. [[19:12:49]] For 241 Clarification accepted. Honourable National Deputies, the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine on Simplification of the Procedure for Landplacement for Nadra Use, with proposals by the President of Ukraine since 01.08.2011 is under review. [[completed]] The rapporteur is the deputy head of the Committee on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations, Valérie Bevezenko. Please. We're going after the amendments, what's the full procedure here?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m1.u193	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! On July 8, this year, the Supreme Council of Ukraine passed the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Legislative Acts on Simplifying the Procedure for Landing for Nadra Use. The bill is intended for the signature of the President of Ukraine and has been returned for review by the Supreme Council of Ukraine with proposals for the inclusion of individual provisions in the law. On September 22, the Supreme Council of Ukraine decided to refer Ukraine’s Law to the Committee on Agrarian Policy and Land Relations to work on the proposals made by the President of Ukraine and the proposals made by legal entities. The committee considered proposals from legislators and presidents of Ukraine. With the exception of one proposal, number 2, the Ukrainian national deputy Lukyanchuk Ruslan, all of them are included, and paragraph 2 of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislative acts on simplifying the granting of land for the needs associated with the use of nadrama is excluded. Moreover, as a result of the revision, the name of the Ukrainian Law, which is proposed in the following wording, has been changed: "To amend article 151 of the Ukrainian Code of Land to simplify the procedure for the granting of land for the needs related to the use of nadras, as changes are only made to article 151 of the Ukrainian Code of Land. In view of the above, the committee suggests recommending that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt the law of Ukraine in a new edition. [[Registration number 8209]] Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-22-m1.u194	Ladies and gentlemen, we must now vote for the new name of the law. And then, if you support me, we'll put the bill to the vote in a new edition. I am voting on the proposal for a name of the law: to amend article 151 of the Ukrainian Code of Land to simplify the granting of land for the use of nadra. Please vote. [[19:15:48]] For 245 Decision taken. Now I'm putting to the vote the proposal to enact the law in the new edition. [[Registration number 8209]] Please vote. [[19:16:13]] For 245 The law is passed. And, honourable national MPs, there is a proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act on Amendments to Appendix No. 3 to the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2011. [[on the cost-effective appointments of the State]] [[Registration number 9635]] [[Government Bill]] Please vote. About getting into the daytime. [[19:16:52]] For 269 Decision taken. Since the committee has considered this bill, it will be possible for us to discuss it in terms of content and make a decision tomorrow. Dear National Deputies, the list of issues scheduled for consideration on Thursday, December 22, is exhausted. Thank you for your work. And I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. Tomorrow we'll be on schedule for Friday, 10 o'clock in the morning.
