ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-12-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:00:42]] They registered in the 418 National Deputies Sessional Hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of the Ukrainian National Deputies: Mikoli Volodymyrovich Martinenka, who was 50 years old. Please welcome our colleague. [[Applause]] And please welcome Smélová Svetlana Alexandrovna with her birthday. And wish our colleagues good health. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, I give you information on the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the plenary meetings on 11 January 2011. 29 issues of the agenda have been considered. As a result of their consideration, 7 laws and 4 decrees were passed, 6 bills were passed on the basis, 2 bills were sent to the Committee to prepare for re-reading, 1 bill was returned to the subject of the law of the legislative initiative, 3 bills and 1 draft decree were rejected. As a result of a review of the President’s proposals, the law was passed after the revision. Dear national deputies, in accordance with article 25 of the Rules on Wednesday, we have 30 minutes to speak to the national deputies with announcements, messages, and appeals. Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up for the speech. Please put the names of the national deputies on the information board. Sergey Sass, "BUT is the Fatherland" faction. Who will act? Is Yuri Odarchenko going to perform? The word is given by Yuri Odarchenko. Victor Terrence will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-12-m0.u2	Dozens of politicians and citizens who had the courage to stand up against the Mafia have been thrown out of play today. This is Yuri Lucenko, Anatoly Makarenko, Igor Didenko, Bogdan Danilishin, rallyers in Maidan, unruly cities, and many others. There's an open force of terror against Julia Timoshenko. According to the beast, members of the opposition in the Supreme Council were beaten. Journalists and politicians are brutally killed again. Today’s authoritarian regime sees its salvation in destroying the incorruptible, who continue to believe in Ukraine’s freedom, justice, and European future. Today, the Ukrainian people have received many gifts from authority. It is the abolition of a simplified tax system, the rise in food prices, gas, electricity, heat, water, and transportation. There has been an increase not only in the retirement age but also in the length of the working week. The new Labour Code converts people into slaves, and the villagers, with Yanukovich and Azarov’s intentions to sell agricultural land, want to be expelled from their own homes. The opposition opposes these intentions of power, which is why the regime has put the law enforcement authorities into the greatest opposition force, the Yulia Timoshenko Block and its allies. The main target for Yanukovic is Julia Timoshenko. We view this as a faithful sign that Julia Volodymyrna did not give up and fight in the right way. In the face of political repression, courts and law enforcement agencies cover widespread corruption, and Rosukreenergo devices release bandits and murderers. That is what the whole country is fighting with us today. We demand: first, to report to the country on the implementation of the resolutions of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe and the European Parliament, which called for an end to the abuse of democracy in Ukraine. The other one. To put an end to political repression against Julia Timoshenko and her team members. Third. Released from the prison of Yuri Lucenka, Igor Didenka, Anatoly Makarenko, Bogdan Danilišin, Taras Šepiteck, Maria Kushner and other politicians, as well as the activists of the "Breakground". Four. To call on the Supreme Council of Attorney General Viktor Pshonka and Human Rights Commissioner Nina Karpachov and to hold a public discussion on political repression in Ukraine. Fifth. To hold government officials and regional deputies responsible for the gang beating of opposition deputies in the walls of the Supreme Council. Six. On Friday, invite the Minister of Interior to the Supreme Council with a report on the shooting in Odessa of politicians who are not members of the Party of the Regions. The fulfilment of these requirements shows that President Janukovic has not finally crossed the line that separates the European country from the country with criminal dictatorship.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-12-m0.u3	Victor Terrence, "BUT" faction. Oleg Zarubinsky will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-12-m0.u4	Victor Terrence, Timoshenko Yulia Block, Fatherland Party. Dear colleagues! Today we greeted our friends with their birthday and it is the right thing to do. But I will start by saying that today is the day of the Ukrainian political prisoner. Today, the day of the Ukrainian political prisoner is filled with blood. I quote, not the BSB, not the BUT, quote Damon Wilson, Vice President of the Atlantic Council of the United States: "The Department of the Ukrainian Prosecutor's Office is more like political persecution than the fight against corruption. We see today that state institutions are being used to persecute political opposition." I quote the counselor of the Helsinki Association of Orestes Daechanowski, saying that the world is well aware of what is going on in Ukraine and beyond. “If the members of the government of Yanukovich think they can lead the West by the nose, I want to say that the West understands everything. I have not yet met any person who works with Ukraine and who does not think that the last criminal persecution of the government of Timoshenko is politically motivated.” End of quote. But the government of Yanukovich is not only killing Timoshenko, not just Lucenka, Korniychuk, Filipchuk, and others. First of all, they are fighting Ukraine, against our language, against our culture, against our historical memory. And that's why the Institute of National Memory is being destroyed, and the Museum of the United Nations is being destroyed. And so today only one hour a week is spent studying Ukrainian history in schools, and this is the war of Yanukovich with the young, with the future. And that's why the Ministry of Education is paying 42 percent attention this year! - cut off the school's scholarship at higher education institutions. This means that talented young people in poor families will no longer be able to get an education. But Comrade Tobacco is ordering another state, and this order is coming from Moscow, and this is again said by representatives of the Ukrainian elite, the words of the Honourable President of Mogiljanka Viacheslav Brukhovecki. I repeat: Today the day of a Ukrainian politician is filled with concrete blood. The police are killing suspects in the destruction of Stalin's monument, and there are massive arrests of young men from Trident's patriotic organization. But there is a resolution by the OSCE, a resolution by the OSCE that likens Stalinism to Hitler to Hitlerism. And so to throw people in jail for the fact that young people are against the perpetuation of Hitler’s or Stalin’s memory, in the eyes of the world, it seems blasphemous, it goes against the OSCE resolution, it’s shame and shame of Ukraine. What a abuse of history, of Ukraine, when the New Year’s television program featured a depraved Hymn of Ukraine, from which lines were thrown out of “the death of our enemies. ” Likely, the authorities and their strangers measured these words to themselves. For this, the Deputy Attorney General sings "Murka" on TV, and it is not just "Murka", it is a sign to society that their anthem is not "The Dead Ukraine" but "The Dark" or "The Vladimir Center".
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-12-m0.u5	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Since Oleg Zarubinski is given the right to speak, Valérie Bondick is also six minutes away. Grigory Kaletnik, instead of Jaroslav Suhogo, will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-12-m0.u6	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! According to the political upheaval and the political upheaval that dominated society, politicians who position themselves as representatives and representatives of national interests often tend to lose sight of the real interests of this people, the common people. And, you know, progress towards the future, any progress, can be only when it comes to people both morally and physically healthy. Not the sick, neither morally nor physically. For physically weakened citizens, thinking about the future remains just thoughts. In our nation the most popular greetings and wishes are the desire for health. But those laws that we adopt, which should apply to health on belief are often, often, not laws, because no one does them. The requirements of legislation, including the protection of citizens from food shortages, food shortages, and food shortages, are openly ignored. The Ukrainian is used to checking supermarkets all the time, and if they don't move the finished product, they're pushing it; or if the number of dyes does not exaggerate the weight of the product itself, it exaggerates. And what's the scariest thing about that? He begins to get used to lying openly on labels, a constant lie on food labels. Let's take a simple example: control over genetically modified organisms. The Supreme Council of Ukraine has passed an appropriate law which I would like to stress, which requires manufacturers to indicate the contents of genetically modified organisms on the package: how many, how many percent, specify: one, two, ten. Once upon a time, I want to ask a rhetorical question, one of the audiences and those who listen to us at least once, saw on some product that there are genetically modified organisms, even though once someone saw it? Never, nowhere. And they are. Even official statistics show that in 2010 only the state - eater laboratories found that 6 percent of the products had genetically modified organisms, there were transgenics. Where are they? They say they're not in the salt, they're not in the water, there's no point in writing them. Maybe there's no point in writing. Why don't you tell me when they are? In meat products, in meat - milk products, in meat products, in meat products, in confectionery, in sugar products. Only official statistics show, once again, that in 6 percent of trials alone, genomically modified organisms have been found. Where are the labels?Oh, my God! Why does the Ukrainian consumer not know what to buy? I know some people might say, including in this room, that it slows down progress. That transgenic progress cannot be stopped. Then I want to ask these GMO propagandists what you're going to buy when you have a choice: are you going to buy apples with defined traces, or are you going to buy apples in a grandmother that sell them naturally? You, your children, will buy organic non-transgenic products for a lot of money. Why are you cheating on others and creating a campaign that is now being launched in Ukraine to change the law to prevent people from identifying what they are buying? It's a shameful practice, it's a crime, not just a mistake. And crime is, even from the point of view of existing legislation, because the law that was passed in December 2009 absolutely clearly requires producers of products not in terms of desire, not in terms of whether or not to indicate voluntarily, but of the need to record the contents or inability of genetically modified organisms throughout food products. I feel, frankly, serious pressure from those who do not want to comply with this law. If you think transgenics aren't harmful, why are you afraid to put on food labels, that they contain, how much of them are there? You, the respected producers of these, contradict yourself by saying that it's harmless, you're afraid to tell people what's in this product. Why are ingredients noted? Why is the composition noted? Why are these labels marked by God knows what rather than what is defined by Ukrainian law? I would like to reiterate that this is criminal inaction on the part of the controlling authorities, and I ask my speech today, Vladimir Mikhajlovich, to consider it an appeal, I don't know any more, but by turning to those who have to stop this shameful practice – to the Prime Minister of Ukraine and, in particular, to the Attorney General of Ukraine, because failure to comply with the law is not only a disgrace but a crime. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-12-m0.u7	Gregory Kaletnik from the faction of the Party of Regions, please. Stepan Davymuk will be next instead of Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-12-m0.u8	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, respected TV listeners! These winter festivals always bring bright and clean feelings, expectations that all our desires and intentions will be realized. Despite all the challenges of today, our nation has faith that the unchanging spiritual values of our people, wisdom, reasonableness, optimism, and industriousness will guarantee that we will be able to cope with all our problems. And what I'd like to do today is to focus on the issue: quota grain exports. Ukraine continues to have a sharp discussion and in the area of grain traders, agricultural producers, whether it is correct or not, that quotas have been introduced in Ukraine. I would like to discuss this subject and bring it to the attention of all of our people, not at the expense of my opinion, but on the basis of official data from the world and Ukraine. So we know that this year Ukraine has collected 42 million tons of grain crops. But we know that our immediate neighbors have not received more than 30 percent of the grain harvest, and their needs are up to 50 million tons. Of course, at a sharp jump of $160 to $260 on average per tonne of grain, as if we had open borders to export, you can see for yourself what Ukraine would be left with. Indeed, the 2010 - 2011 season became the third in the history of an independent Ukraine with a grain quota season. This was a difficult but inevitable solution when such a shortage occurred in the grain world. By the way, I want to tell you that you can now read on official websites how European states and distant neighbours across the ocean limit the export of grain in view of the climate conditions that are now present in the world. So the main thing was to know whether he would lose economically in this Ukraine. I want to say the following numbers. If in October, when the export price for wheat was reduced to 200, it is now $330. If there were 200 corns, it's $260. That is why the grain traders did not suffer economically. What is more, there has now been a quota distribution and it turns out that a large number of grain traders did not have in stock the presence of the grain that they were talking about and discussing all the time. So, respectable colleagues, you can do that.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-12-m0.u9	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-12-m0.u10	The conclusion is that Ukraine will now be allowed to release and export grain. But all that has been done has been used only to provide food security and animal production for the people of Ukraine in Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-12-m0.u11	Thank you. Stepan Dávimuk, "BUT" faction. Paul Sulkowski will be next. Valérie Konovaluk.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-12-m0.u12	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! Ladies and gentlemen! In the New Year's greetings of senior officials, the main achievement of the new power was stability. And in the argument, the argument was that under stability they understood the unified work in the supreme echelon of power. A new structure of power was created. As with many other Ukrainians and the public, I have a very serious concern about the nature of the relationship in this structure. It raises anxiety about the complete subordination of one person and government, and most of the Supreme Council, and the National Bank, and the Armed Forces of Ukraine, and the Special Services, and the local administrations. This is achieved by human resources policy, by assigning people to the mark of personal loyalty. That's what Stalin had. And this structure begins to work with the persecution of the dissidents, the persecution of the opposition. The government has the illusion that if this rascal turns around, it can be stopped at any time. Historical practice shows the opposite. Stopping the mahogany, where hundreds of thousands of people will work, will be extremely difficult. We need to think about the new authority. Is there stability in society? Ukraine is anxious. The humanitarian sector is headed by open - minded Ukrainianophobes who, in fact, act step by step and cynically reproduce the old - fashioned order. Is there stability in entrepreneurship? Entrepreneurs, you know how they react to the decisions of the new government. Is there stability among our young people? What's going on in the ministries. As far as college is concerned. What the Ministry is doing right now, reducing the government order, and so on, is causing a lot of anxiety. Is there stability in society as a whole, under the sword of Domoklo and from both pension reform and the Labour Code, and so forth? These are thoughtless things that are not implemented in a consolidated way. () [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-12-m0.u13	Valerius Konovaluk, faction of the Party of the Regions. The next one will be by Vladimir Bondarenko instead of Shustik.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-12-m0.u14	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, distinguished voters! Under the New Year’s tree two weeks ago, we sincerely desired each other and the people of Ukraine good health. However, the health - care situation is quite critical. Today, there are 86 people living in Ukraine every hour. Ukraine has first place in childhood mortality, on cancer, cardiovascular disease, HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis. I am convinced that premature mortality is three times higher than in Europe, and the average life expectancy of Ukrainians is 10 to 15 years lower than in the leading European countries. At the same time, according to the World Health Organization, an effective health system is capable of reducing overall mortality by an average of 30 percent. Reforming native medicine, which focuses on improving the quality and accessibility of health services for the population, preventing diseases, stimulating healthy lifestyles, is one of the key priorities of public social policy for 2011. I believe that you and I are obliged to make the next session of the Supreme Council key to the approval of those laws that will eventually start reforming the health system. Finally, it is necessary to radically change the treatment of the country's medical system, to establish transparent and literate financing of the medical field, everyone said. I am convinced that changing the direction of the Ministry of Health, and that we have sought, personally me and the Committee of the Supreme Council on Health, will allow not only today’s medical science but also create conditions to overcome corruption and abuse in this department. I am convinced that the new minister of Elijah Yemen, a man of universal knowledge, is a modern, intelligent man who can offer us an effective way of developing medicine in Ukraine. As part of the health reform, we attach great practical importance to the introduction of an electronic social card, which is called upon to address the problem of targeted distribution of benefits that can protect our citizens, to provide the highest support of high-quality social services of the state so that everyone with the lowest income today would have the opportunity to receive state social assistance. According to the initiative of the President of Ukraine, this year an experiment is launched in five regions of Ukraine after the introduction of a social e - card. This will be the main means of ensuring the introduction of state health insurance in order to do everything necessary to ensure effective medicine and quality services for our citizens. I'm convinced that those other criminal cases that were committed by the Attorney General's Office yesterday, you. Remember, it's broken in the bloodbath, when.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-12-m0.u15	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-12-m0.u16	They moved in, and 50 million dollars lost the state budget, and we lost several teenagers in Ukraine. I am convinced that such a situation must be rectified today and bring to justice all those who do.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-12-m0.u17	Thank you. Vladimir Bondarenko, “BUT – Fatherland” faction. Orestes Mutz will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-12-m0.u18	Vladimir Bondarenko, Yulia Timoshenko, Reforms and Order. Dear colleagues, distinguished listeners, and viewers! All of you remember when last year we received reports of rising or falling prices. And a little earlier, Mikola Janovich Azarov had said that members of his government, particularly those working in agriculture, had achieved remarkable success in the price of cabbage. This is not the first time I have addressed the problem of sharp price increases in Ukraine. In all of this, I want to point out that reports by statistical authorities indicate that they either stopped or even fell. The increase in September of 1 percent, in October of 1.5 percent, well, clearly does not reflect the real situation. If you were at a gas station today or yesterday, you noticed that for the first time in Ukraine gasoline had become more expensive than a dollar, 1 liter. And we're told that for the first time inflation has stopped at the level of a definite figure. So I want to ask. In addition to gasoline, prices have already increased by one and a half times, and a double increase of 50 percent is anticipated. What doesn't affect inflation? And the prices of residential services that are constantly growing, and the reports are that electricity is going to increase. What doesn't affect inflation? This isn't the first time? It's the first time this rate of growth. For the first time in the villages, people began to regenerate the heat instead of the gas, as it became insurmountable. For the first time, the routes passed the price of 5 bracelets on the route. For the first time, solid cheese cost more than 100 dollars per kilogram. And that's the first time you can count tens and hundreds. This raises the question. If for the first time in Ukraine inflation has stopped at the level of a definite figure and for the first time such a frenzy is growing, someone is lying. People feel that lies come from statistical authorities and local government authorities that distort statistics that come to the center and maybe the central statistical authorities just publish this lie that comes from all over Ukraine. So I want to ask the government, Mikli Janovića Azarovich, his ministers: name at least one product, even one service in Ukraine, which has cost at least one penny during your reign. With the fact that neither the wages have actually grown nor the pensions have grown, the real decline is going to take place. In this way, I would like to draw attention to our obligation to welcome the government of Azar with such great achievements. Every week we're going to publish for the citizens of Ukraine and for you, dear friends, so that you don't be fooled by statistics, information about what this government has done for the first time. Just like with the gas, like with everything else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-12-m0.u19	Orest Mutz, faction of the Party of the Regions. Komar will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-12-m0.u20	Ladies and gentlemen. This year the people of Western Ukraine celebrated Christ’s Christmas with a special ascension, since for the first time in independence history they met him with the President. I'd like to emphasize that. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues! This year the people of Western Ukraine celebrated Christ’s Christmas with a special ascension, for for the first time in their history of independence they met him with the President! For the first time in the history of the state, her head, Viktor Janukovich, attended one of the greatest Christian festivals, not in the temple of the capital, but participated in the festive service in the Holy Council of the Holy Uspen Pocavian Lavra in Ternopils. For Western Ukraine, this has become the biggest event of the year that has begun, since it is known to all that the inhabitants of this region are marked by a special religion and that practically the entire population is observing Christian traditions. In the Ternopil region alone, there are now 1,000,681 religious communities, 39 monasteries, 11 spiritual schools. Here is one of Ukraine’s largest Christian shrines, the Pocavian Lavra and the Marian spiritual center in Zorvanica. Millions of pilgrims visit each year. Unlike some politicians who have already been able to call on the President not to allow preferences for one Ukrainian Orthodox Church, my countrymen who represent various Christian denominations claim that it is more important for them that the head of our state is guided by God's commandments and is a man of faith. With a special lift, all Christians, not only Galicina, but also all Ukraine, accepted the President's words: “I believe, first of all, in our own strength, that together, together, we will overcome everything, such strength is given to us by the Lord.” On behalf of the Galicians, I express my sincere gratitude to the President for taking part in the worship of him at Christmas and for his sincere greetings. [[B in m in s a l in]] I want to assure the people of Western Ukraine that I fully support the President’s words that only along with faith, with love, can we overcome the challenges of fate, the trials that the Lord has sent us on this path. This is the only way that each of us will live out our expectations of the socio-economic and spiritual recovery of Ukraine in general and of each of its regions in particular.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-12-m0.u21	Yes, Inna. [[Applause]] Another Bogoslovak instead of Mikaly Komara, please the faction of the Party of the Regions, the last performance.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-12-m0.u22	Dear Ukrainians, dear colleagues, we are starting a new year, and we must understand that the responsibility for the state of the country in a year lies with all of us both in power and opposition. Today, we understand the opposition that we have nothing to say but to protect those who are legally behind bars today. Because, in fact, you have nothing to say about those five years when you were in power. Apart from the chatter and the theater you made out of power, there's nothing to say. It is our responsibility today to bring a vast European country out of the crisis that you have put 46 million of our fellow citizens into your theater. And so today we want to translate all the political debates from the conversation about who is beautiful and who is bad into the conversation about what to do. And now I want to say that the main task of today's government is to take this moment to release, free up the entrepreneurial initiative. Because there is much to be said about how to distribute money and how to make money. And today, entrepreneurs, businessmen, those who work in businesses, employees ask, first of all, when there's going to be a downturn in business regulation, when there's a downsizing in wages, so that people know that the increase in wages, which is going to be accompanied by an increase in production, is what gets the country out of the crisis. Deregulation is what the Supreme Council is supposed to do in this neighborhood, first of all. We've started a huge deal -- canceling our work licenses and our activities, but we haven't finished it. And task number one is to adopt this law in second reading. We started deregulation in oversight. The President insists that there be a principle: one body is one supervisory body. It's not done today, it's our job. We have to give an answer in the first quarter to how to reduce the workload on wages, because by now we have half the wages in the shade, and that's a challenge for all of us. Deregulation of entrepreneurship, reduced workload on wages are the tools that will increase production in the country. And this is the way we should go. I see the face and the opposition MPs now. You know what we're saying right. Support us in what you promised, but you did not. And let's do it together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-12-m0.u23	Dear colleagues, the speech is over. I ask the secretariat to prepare appropriate assignments for the proposals, statements and appeals that have been made by the national MPs. Honourable National Deputies, two factions, the BUT faction, the Fatherland and the faction of the "Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense" bloc, demand that, in accordance with the Rules, a recess be announced for consultations and meetings of the Conciliation Council. I'm calling a break of 30 minutes, up to 11 hours 10 minutes. Faction leaders, please meet in the office of the Chief of Staff of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-12-m0.u24	Dear National Deputies! Please take your jobs, we'll continue our work. Because two factions demanded a 30 - minute recess for consultations. These consultations were held, so first I ask the initiators to take a break until the speech, three minutes. Sergei Sass.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-12-m0.u25	Thank you. National Deputy Sass, "BUT" faction, "Fatherland." Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! In Ukraine, political repression is on the rise, not only with regard to political opponents, members of the past government, representatives of various political, professional, social groups, but also with regard to specific citizens. Recently, from various rostrums, the Attorney General has repeatedly spoken on this subject. In order to find out the situation around the problems of political repression, two factions of the Yulia Timoshenko – Fatherland and Our Ukraine proposed, in accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine and the Rules Act, to hear the information of the Prosecutor-General from the Supreme Council of Ukraine. After considering this proposal yesterday, the Supreme Council decided by 408 votes to invite and provide information to the Attorney General. According to article 122 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Attorney General refers to the number of persons appointed by the Supreme Council. In accordance with article 240 of the Supreme Council’s Rules, the Supreme Council listens to the information of persons who have been appointed by the Supreme Council, elects or appoints. Thus, 408 national deputies supported this proposal. Today, we have learned from the information given by the Head of the Supreme Council that the High Council will be presented, not by the Attorney General, but by the acting attorney. There is a corresponding order from the Attorney General from today or yesterday that he will be on a mission. However, we do have information that the Attorney General was at the reception of the President of Ukraine yesterday. And that's why we express our concern about the huge disrespect of the Attorney General for the higher legislative body, the Supreme Council of Ukraine. This is a huge disrespect not only for every national MP but also for the higher legislative body as a whole. We demand, from two factions, clear adherence to the Constitution and laws of Ukraine, and we demand that the Attorney General be invited to provide information as soon as possible. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-12-m0.u26	Ladies and gentlemen, may I inform you of the outcome of the meeting of the Conciliation Council? And before that, my honourable colleagues, I remind you that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted yesterday a decree by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on hearing information from the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine, I stress, the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine on the grounds of criminal offences and the detention of individuals. 408 votes. At the same time, in line with the proposals made by the people’s deputies, I sent a letter to the Attorney General’s Office suggesting that the Supreme Council received such information from the Attorney General. But in view of the fact that the Attorney General is on vacation from January 12 to 13, there's an appropriate document, one minute, on the way. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please don't shout, dear colleagues. He's on a business trip. I introduced the faction leaders to the relevant documents, and the faction leaders agreed that information from the Supreme Council of Ukraine would be provided by the Acting Prosecutor-General of Ukraine, Blaživsky Evgen Mikolaiovich. At the same time, according to article 240 of the Rules, we received written, written information from the Attorney General’s Office for signature, by the way, as is the case with the Attorney General of Ukraine. In view of the fact that we only made a decision yesterday, and the information arrived yesterday, we were able to get to know only the faction leaders. It will be distributed to the national deputies as well. In addition, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, again in accordance with the Rules, has decided to hear information directly from the Attorney General’s Office in addition to written information. And today the Attorney General is present. At the same time, we did not assign a committee to prepare the matter. That's why there won't be any speeches from the committee. And since there are no draft decisions, it is likely that the Supreme Council of Ukraine will take note. Since, once again, according to article 240 of the Rules, if there is a draft decision, the matter of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is determined on a draft decision. And I am grateful that in this regard we have a complete understanding at the level of the Conciliation Council. That's why I'm announcing, honourable colleagues, the question. Start of the debate: Information from the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine on the grounds for the criminal offence of individual Ukrainian citizens and the detention of Ukrainian citizens. The word is given by the prosecutor - general of Ukraine Blaživsky Eugen Mikolaiovich. The rules, as you do, are known for up to 20 minutes to provide information, 20 minutes to answer questions from national MPs. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-12-m0.u27	Honourable Volodymyr Mihajlovich, distinguished national deputies, in connection with the approval of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I inform you of the following: The Constitution and the laws of Ukraine on the Prosecutor's Office rely on the authorities of the Prosecutor's Office to monitor compliance with the rule of law and to protect against unlawful interference with the interests of the State, including financial ones. One of the main tasks of the Public Prosecutor’s Office is to prevent corruption and to uphold the principle of irreparability of punishment. According to the prosecution’s material and the results of the law enforcement work, the State’s criminal activity in this area has been severely damaged, especially by bribery, looting, and embezzlement of state funds, abuse of power, and excess of official authority. During 2010 alone, some 18,000 police crimes have been detected by law enforcement agencies. 500 people have been selected to take a precautionary action in the form of taking in custody. Nearly 2,000 criminal cases of corruption crimes have already been brought before the prosecution, causing damage to the state for more than 130 million dollars. Most of them have been violated on the basis of the materials of the Audit Authority, the Accounting Chamber, independent international auditors. In particular, on October 15, 2010, the Ukrainian Ministry of Finance published a report on the fact that the use of budgetary resources was investigated in 2008, 2009 and the first quarter of 2010. On December 17, 2010, he personally reported on the findings of the finance minister. The report finds numerous cases of misappropriation of government funds. A copy of this document has been sent to the Attorney General’s Office and law enforcement authorities for further examination and adoption of procedural decisions. In accordance with the requirements of the articles: 94, 97, 98 of the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine, the Prosecutor's Office examined the facts and violated criminal cases solely on the basis of the requirements of the law. An unbiased analysis has shown that the reported criminal cases relate exclusively to crimes in the economic sphere, have no political basis, and cannot be regarded as persecution by opposition parties and individual seniors. Yes, last year there were 20 criminal cases involving both former and current governments, 4 of which had already been brought to trial with an indictment. Yes, the Provincial District Court of the City of Creature of Dnipropetrov Region is dealing with a criminal charge against the former deputy head of the State Reserve and, at the time of the commission of the crime, the director of the “Resursinvest” of Sinkovsky and the head of the department of the “Ingullec Mining and Enriching Combined” of Veligov in the illegal possession of the material values of the mobilization reserve of the Democratic Republic of Ukraine for a sum of over a million dollars. A criminal case involving the Deputy Minister of the Environment of Ukraine, Bogdan Presner, and his assistant, Mironenko, is pending before the Court of Thessaloniki, which demanded US$ 200,000 and received US$ 100,000 for his appointment as Head of State Environmental Inspection in the Odessa region. Shevchenkow District Court of Kiev is dealing with a case involving the Deputy Minister of Transport and Communications of Ukraine, head of the State Automobile Inspectorate of Kravczuk, who acquired and used a false certificate of higher education. The same court holds a criminal case for accusing the former Deputy Minister of Transport and the relationship between Ukraine and Davidov of the abuse of office and the illegal possession of state property. In addition, for committing serious and particularly serious crimes, including the State's multimillion-dollar damage, criminal investigation authorities are also attracted: former Prime Minister of Ukraine Timoshenko Yulia Volodymyrna, former Minister of Economy Bogdan Danishin, former Minister of Environmental Protection Georgi Filipchuk, Minister of Interior Yuri Lucenko, former Minister of Transport and Liaison Bondar, former Minister of State of Defence Ivanshenko, former First Deputy Minister of Justice Korniychuk, former Deputy Minister of State of Transport and Liaison of Workers, former Head of State Treasury of the Ministry of State of Public Administration, and former Deputy Minister of Justice Korniyichuk. In accordance with the requirements of Criminal Procedure Law, each of the persons listed has the right to appeal against a criminal offence order. Yet, only six of them have been charged with the said procedural decision, and in five cases the investigator’s rulings have been found legal. And the lawyer Danilishin’s complaint on these issues is scheduled for consideration on January 18 of this year. Taking into account the gravity and social danger of crimes committed, the large-scale material damage to the State, the intention to influence witnesses and the bodies of the pretrial investigation with a view to avoiding criminal liability and other grounds provided for in articles 148, 149, 150, 155 of the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine, the court for the investigation of 9 persons, namely: Filipchuk, Lucenka, Yvaszczenka, Korniychuk, Makarenko, Didenka, Sinkowski, Rud, Sterbina, Chosenek, Precautionary steps taken in custody. Six of them, namely Filipchuka, Lucenka, Yvashchenka, Makarenko, Rudh, Didenka, the legality of the decisions of the first court regarding the selection of a precautionary action in the form of a taking in custody, have been examined by the Court of Appeal. Satisfied complaints have been dismissed. And Korniyczuk’s case is scheduled for January 13. The terms and conditions of detention of the accused meet the requirements of legislation, are systematically checked by prosecutors of the city of Kiev, Dnipropetrovsk district, and the Attorney General’s Office. Prisoners ’ health is satisfactory. There was no complaint about improper conditions of detention. In view of the high rank of service of those who were called to account, the approach to the matter was particularly strict and principled. The state of judicial investigation in the above - mentioned criminal cases was discussed at an extended meeting of the General Prosecutor’s Office College on December 29, 2010. This was preceded by a careful and impartial study of every criminal case in order to uphold the rule of law. In the work of the College, the heads of law enforcement agencies, the Supreme Council for Human Rights of Karpachov, the head of the International League for the Protection of the Rights of Ukrainian Citizens, Edward Baghirov. As a result, qualified experts, investigators, law enforcement officers, public prosecutors, as well as all members of the college, noted that there were no violations in the selection of precautionary measures, investigations, and detention of persons in the State Penitentiary Service. As a result, it has been approved that all procedural actions are carried out in accordance with the requirements of the law and that the requirements and conditions of detention of the accused are not violated. Now, information on pretrial investigation in specific criminal matters. Yes, the investigator of the Attorney-General's Office has completed his trial in a criminal case for accusing former Interior Minister Yuri Lucenka and co-worker of this department of Leonid the Predjective. The case was dismissed on October 15, 2010, following a review of the documentary audit material carried out by the Department of Internal Affairs Audit and Audit. The precautionary action of the two defendants was selected on November 5th in the form of a non-refoulement subscription. On December 13, Yuri Lucenka was finally accused of acquiring more than 230,000 dollars of government funds and of exceeding her official powers, which resulted in serious consequences, namely, that more than 130,000 dollars have been caused to the State. [[This is part of the fifth article of article 191 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code.]] [[Part Three of Article 35 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine]] The charges of completion of the pretrial investigation were made and the requirements of article 218 of the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine began to be met, i.e. to familiarize them with the materials of the pretrial investigation. Since the ex-Minister of Internal Affairs did not appear five times to challenge the investigator to investigate the material of the case, although the need for an appearance was duly reported by the court, the investigator made a thorough and legal decision to change the Precautionary Preservation Act to prevent the delay in the conduct of criminal proceedings. For the time being, Lucenko is kept in a cell for those who need additional security measures in the Kyiv Detention Unit. The camera is designed for three people, so former law enforcement officers are with it. The information about Lucenko being held under constant surveillance in the sector where he is sentenced to permanent deprivation of liberty does not correspond to reality. Lucenka’s health was satisfactory, and there was no complaint of improper detention. The question of Lucenka's guilt will be decided by the court. The Prosecutor-General's Office has completed a trial in a criminal case involving the ex-Prime Minister of Ukraine, Yulia Timoshenko. The basis for the case was the acts of the CIA and independent auditors that came to the Attorney General’s Office. Tymoshenko is accused of exceeding official authority, which has caused severe consequences and has caused material damage to the State for more than 900,000 dollars; and the abuse of power and service, which has caused serious consequences and caused material damage to the sum of over a million dollars; the purposeless use of budget funds, particularly largely for more than 2 billion 322 million dollars; and the issuance of an orderly document that changes the income and expenditure of the budget in spite of the rule of law. [[This is part 3 of article 365 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code.]] [[This is part 2 of article 364 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code.]] [[Part 2 of article 210 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code]] [[This is part 2 of article 211 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code.]] Timoshenko’s safety plan is chosen as a non - exit subscription. The investigation is conducted in compliance with the requirements of criminal and procedural legislation. There is also a pretrial investigation into the case of the former minister of environmental protection, Gregory Filipchuk. The criminal case was violated by the Attorney General's Office on the basis of the HeadCHR's audit for the abuse of a service position in the interests of third parties, which resulted in severe consequences — direct material damage to the State in the amount of more than 140,000 euros or nearly one and a half million dollars. In view of the gravity of the crime and in order to prevent attempts to escape the investigation or the trial or to prevent the truth from being established, a precautionary measure has been taken against Philipchuk on 17 December. At present, follow-up actions are being carried out with a view to a full and comprehensive investigation of the circumstances of the case. The Attorney General's Office is also investigating a criminal case involving the former First Deputy Minister of Justice of Ukraine, Eugene Korniyczuk, for the abuse of office in the interests of third parties, which has caused serious consequences — damages to the State for more than 1 million dollars. In view of the gravity of the crime and in order to prevent attempts to escape the investigation or trial or to prevent the truth from being established, a precautionary measure has been taken against Korniychuk on December 30 – keeping the watch. Korniyczuk’s appeal for a court order for a precautionary action is scheduled for tomorrow. The investigation is ongoing. The Attorney General's Office also conducts a criminal investigation into the former Head of State Inspectorate for Price Control of the Ministry of Economics. In fact, a bribe worth 67,000 dollars and $50,000 is required and received. In view of the gravity of the crime and in order to prevent attempts to escape the investigation or trial or to prevent the truth from being established, a precautionary measure has been chosen on November 19 on the Red. The charges were filed on November 25, and the period of custody was extended to 4 months. The investigation is ongoing. Next thing. A preliminary investigation is being conducted into the case of the former head of the State Treasury, Tears, and the former first deputy head of the Gritzun State Treasury for the abuse of office in the interests of third parties. The basis for the criminal offence was the act of the Head of State and the verification materials carried out by the Prosecutor’s Office for the request of the State Property Fund of Ukraine. The decision to attract Tears as the accused was issued on July 17, 2010. On that same day, she was declared wanted. In connection with the evading of tears from the court’s investigation on July 19, 2010, the court granted permission to arrest her and bring her to court in custody to decide on the matter of choosing a precautionary measure. The case is currently being investigated. The Office of the Attorney General also dismissed a criminal case involving the former Minister of Economy of Ukraine, Bogdan Danilishin, on the basis of the evidence of the abuse of office, which resulted in serious consequences — that is, material damage to the State for more than 7 million dollars. The charge against Danilishin has been filed since October 17, 2010, and has been detained by the Czech Republic’s law enforcement agencies. The Attorney General's Office has sent the relevant documents to the Ministry of Justice of the Czech Republic for the extradition of Danišin. The Attorney General's Office is investigating a criminal case involving the former Minister of Transport and Liaison of Ukraine Bondar on the grounds of the crimes envisaged in part five of article 27, part two of article 194 and article 353 of the Criminal Code for assisting him in the deliberate destruction of the incomplete construction of the Teremka Motorway. These actions cost the State more than 5 million dollars. The criminal investigation materials of the Ministry of Transport and Communications of Ukraine were the grounds for the crime. Bondara was delayed on December 24, but the next day, a precautionary move, a nondepartmental subscription was chosen. The investigation is ongoing. The Attorney General's Office has been charged with a criminal case involving the former Deputy Chief of Staff of the U.S.K. Kolbun Pension Fund for the abuse of a position of duty in the procurement of services for the development, manufacture and delivery of personalized unconverted messages to pensioners who have caused severe consequences, that is, material damage to the State for more than 6 million dollars. In respect of Kolbun, a precautionary action has been chosen — a non-refoulement subscription. The trial is conducted by the prosecutor’s department of Kyiv. The following administration of the tax police of Ukraine is investigating the criminal case of the indictment of the former deputy head of the Republic of Ukraine of Sinkovsky, former director of the DP “Ukreserve” Gilina and others under article 5 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine and article 209 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine, which was violated on 18 August 2010 by the materials of the verification of the tax police and Derjfinmonitoring. It was established that in 2009, Sinkovsky, abusing his service position, had entered into a criminal conspiracy with Gilin and others to document the purchase of 9,000 tons of wheat to the Derzkomreserv, which had not actually taken place. Government funds of 11 million dollars are listed as a fictional enterprise and cashed out by bank employees. During this time, 10 persons, including Sinkovsky, have been charged with custody of six accused. The trial is ongoing. A criminal case has been brought before the head of the Ukrainian Security Service in connection with the temporary administrator of the Rodowod AT. According to article 191 of the Criminal Code, article 5, section 5, of the Criminal Code. The basis for the infringement was the CPR’s acts and the materials of the investigation. The coat of arms has been charged with the acquisition of state funds for more than 40 million dollars through the use of counterfeit documents for renting premises, repairs, and maintenance of equipment. In view of the serious crime and in order to prevent attempts to escape the investigation or trial or to prevent the truth from being established, a precautionary measure has been taken by the Court of Hearts — keeping the watch. The case is currently being conducted with judicial and building expertise, two forensic and technical expertise and a black science. Ukraine’s chief security officer is investigating a criminal case against the former Deputy Minister of Transport and Communications of Ukraine, director of the State Department of Maritime and River Transport of Robotov, who, for the cooperation of others against the interests of others, made public the requirements of the Ukrainian State Secret Act.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-12-m0.u28	Turn on the microphone. Microphone, please turn it on. Please continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-12-m0.u29	That is, he committed the crime provided for in article 328 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine. The criminal case was violated by the intelligence materials that came from the Department of Counter-Intelligence Protection of the Ukrainian State Security Service. The case is restricted. The accused has been selected for a precautionary measure — non-refoulement. The trial continued until 8 months in connection with the conviction of the accused and their supporters of the admission to state secrecy to familiarize themselves with the material of the criminal case. The trial in a criminal case is ongoing. The chief investigator of the Ukrainian Security Service is also conducting a criminal investigation into the indictment of Igor Didenk, former first deputy head of the NAC Directorate of Naftogaz Ukraine; Makarenko, former head of the Ukrainian State Customs Service; Shepetika, customs officer; Konev, former head of Energy Customs; Garjacheva, customs officer; Bordjelovski, NAK Naftogaz Ukraine; and Kushner, deputy chief accountant of NAK Naftogaz Ukraine. The criminal case was filed against the intelligence materials that came from the Department of Counterintelligence Protection. In connection with the gravity of the crimes and with the aim of preventing the escape of the investigation, continuing criminal activity, and preventing the establishment of the truth, a precautionary action has been taken against Didenko, Makarenko, and Whisperer. The defendants are now familiarizing themselves with the material of the criminal case. The Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine, within the framework of the criminal investigation into the abuse by officials of the Ukrainian Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Health and the State Customs Office, has been criminalized with respect to the Director of the State Enterprise Ukremedpostacz Petrenka, under article 101 of the Criminal Code for the purpose of making him spend more than 4,000 dollars on private firms, as if for the provision of counselling and mediation services while registering with the Ministry of Health of Ukraine's medical equipment imported into Ukraine. The basis for the case was acts by the CIA and independent international auditors. On December 30, 2010, the Cave District Court of Kiev chose a precautionary measure — a standstill.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-12-m0.u30	Dear colleagues, now. Your Honor, please, the information is about to be completed. We'll have 20 minutes to ask you a question. No one's going to cut anything, so it's okay. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-12-m0.u31	Besides, well, I'll give you one more thing. The U.S. Attorney - General’s Office investigated a criminal case involving the perpetrator of the Ukrainian Defence Minister’s duties, Yvashchenka, for the abuse of a position of duty, which resulted in severe consequences — that is, material damage to the sum of more than 70 million dollars. [[th m in s a l i]] The materials of the Ukrainian Security Service, which came to the Office of the Chief Prosecutor of the Military Prosecutors, were the reasons and reasons for the crime. Taking into account the serious crimes and information Ivanshchenk intends to avoid the investigation, on August 24, 2010, a precautionary action was taken — keeping him under guard. The investigation is now completed, and as of November 1, 2010, criminal proceedings have begun. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-12-m0.u32	Dear colleagues, please sign up for a question, 20 minutes for questions and answers. Yes, there's a recording, please state your names. Taras Stackov, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-12-m0.u33	Honorable Acting Attorney General! I don't think it took that much time for the deputies to listen to the statistics of the Attorney General's Office. That's not why you were called here. You were invited here to explain, to give an answer, to one question: Why did you choose the strictest of all possible precautions against the ministers of the government, Timoshenko, for two months? Did you not give any explanation as to whether these people wanted to go abroad or were fleeing the investigation, or were they obstructing the investigation? You should have told each minister that you were forced to take such a precaution. You should also know that Ukrainian legislation allows a suspect, when there is no lawyer, to request the investigator to transfer the matter. All of this remains outside your report. And that's why it looks like you did a number.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-12-m0.u34	Ladies and gentlemen, I have said that for individuals, a precautionary measure has been chosen — keeping them under guard, and for others such a measure as not signing up, including for the former Prime Minister of Ukraine. The basis for choosing a precautionary measure of custody is, first of all, the gravity of the crime and the individual intentions of avoiding the investigation. [[noise in the hall]] Evasion of investigation, obstruction of investigation. The presumption of innocence is, and every criminal case will be dealt with in the court. Those cases that do not have the griffin of secrecy will be dealt with in an open court. And all the arguments, both the charges and the defense, will be brought to justice. And the court will decide every case.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-12-m0.u35	Yes, National Deputy Zubanov, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-12-m0.u36	Please pass the word to Jaroslav Sukh.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-12-m0.u37	Jaroslav Suhi, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-12-m0.u38	Thank you. Dear Eugene Mikolaiovich, therefore, has more than 2,000 criminal cases involving corrupters and charges against former high-ranking men. I understand them, they're saving themselves as they can, and they're trying to avoid responsibility by covering up the lines of political repression. From the point of view of their behavior, it's normal; no one wants to answer. But I have a question first from the Zaporozhye voters who asked me questions. Will you have enough willpower in the prosecutor’s office, or will you bring the matter to an end, and will you continue to be consistent in the fight against corruption, abuse, if discovered among today’s high officials? And the second question. That's what it's all about. Here, I see, MPs don't understand the very procedure of keeping watch. To what extent are former high - ranking workers provided with legal protection and the ability to prove themselves right? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-12-m0.u39	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that, on the first question that the prosecution has enough power, the ability to bring criminal cases to trial in a court of law. And each of the defendants took a precautionary action, taking into account the order of the investigator and the appeal of the court. In those cases where the court agreed with the investigator, a precautionary measure was chosen — keeping the guard in custody. As far as criminal matters are concerned. I can tell you that in 2010, 5 percent more criminal cases of bribery were detected. This is against the representatives, the ones in power today. So the job of identifying those who commit crimes is done. And it's being carried out actively. With regard to the protection of those who are drawn to responsibility.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-12-m0.u40	Microphone, please. Roman Zabzaluk, faction "BUT is the Fatherland".
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-12-m0.u41	You know, the depth of cynicism with which the Attorney General's Office operates in relation to the laws of Ukraine, citizens, representatives of the opposition and the national patriotic powers of the State is impressive. Showing shows that you held after detention, such as Yuri Lucenka or Eugenia Korniyczuk and many other politicians in Ukraine, representatives of the opposition of our country, the baseless ten-hour abuse of Yulia Timoshenko, the leader of the country’s democratic forces, shows and shows that there is an effort to bring our country back to the Constitution in 1937. At the same time, even though there are numerous cases of abuse of active power, such as journalists of “Ukrainian Truth”, the national MPs have handed over to you the numbered material relating to the illegal recalculation by the government of Azarov of his son 150 million dollars. There are no answers. There is also no answer regarding the transfer to the Attorney General's Office by the head of CRU Siwulski, a peaceful, purposeless use. There is no answer!
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-12-m0.u42	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-12-m0.u43	You know, you have a very large question like that. The question was general and I'll give you the answer. I can say that in every criminal case, the grounds and reasons for its violation were provided for by law. Every criminal case is subject to audits, expert examinations are conducted, and only on the basis of the totality of the evidence is the charge brought. All persons are given the opportunity to use the services of a protector. And everyone has a protector, they have the ability to use it. What about detention, so you can't keep it in the daytime, you better keep it at night or what? And if persons have weapons, how else can they be held? [[B in m in s a l in]] As for all materials that come to the prosecutor's office, they are all given an evaluation, decisions are taken as provided for in article 97 of the Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code. All materials are answered, and national deputies, if any, receive more than 40,000 appeals a year to the prosecutor’s office, and all are answered by prosecutors.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-12-m0.u44	Vladimir Yavorowski, "BUT – "The Fatherland" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-12-m0.u45	Dear reporter! Vladimir Yavorowski. An outstanding Russian historian, Klutevski, you may know, once said a beautiful phrase: “There are two kinds of fools: some don’t understand what everyone should understand, others understand what no one else should understand.” So I have a question: to which category of these two fools do you refer us and the Ukrainian people when you tell us about former government officials and you don't call any, even Demishkan, your Demishcan, give me, from the Party of Regions, not your region, the killer who confessed to being a murderer, you release him from prison for a ticket. Instead, you want to plant Julia Timoshenko, who declared to Kuchmi in 2000: “They want me to go abroad. I will not leave my country anywhere." Why? Lucenko said the same thing. Why do you keep them there? Who of today’s authorities, please tell us who the case is and if you have any argument that Julia Timoshenko really is.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-12-m0.u46	As for the first question, I want to say that I have deep respect for all people in Ukraine and the national deputies with special respect. Because they're adopting laws that the prosecution is also working on. As for the selection of the precautionary measure, the investigator has the right to appeal to the court about choosing a precautionary measure: keeping under guard. And the court takes a decision in each individual case, it argues, and this decision may be charged with a higher court, which was done by those persons who are charged with criminal matters that I counted to you. All who break the law, including those of today’s authorities, are called to account. [[B in m in s a l in]] I've already called you the cases that are before the court: the case of former Deputy Minister of Economics of Prestner, the case of the head of the Rudi department who took the bribe, and he's taking responsibility. And all those who do.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-12-m0.u47	Sergey Sobolev, "BUT" faction, "The Fatherland".
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-12-m0.u48	Dear reporter! It was you, I understand, by the prosecutor of Kiev, when Czernovecki, Long and his young team stole millions and millions of acres of land in Kiev, and kept quiet and covered it. Now, here's a question for you. Tell me, please, I understand when the Party of Regions itself is taking responsibility for the bribes that you just called, which, I understand, have not shared with them and have not carried them to the Office of the President or the Ministry. Please tell me, how can you hold Timoshenko accountable when your investigator accuses her of using these funds to pay her pensions? How can you be drawn to the responsibility of Didenko or Makarenko when the apparent corporate conflict of Mr. Firtash, who stole $4.5 billion from the state? You don't hold him responsible. How can we hold Tears accountable if the money has not been returned by the competition that applied to the Priporte factory? Where's yours?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-12-m0.u49	I want to say that in every criminal case, there were legal grounds for its violation. And in every criminal case, there was evidence. In the Didenka case, the investigation was completed, and the defendants were provided with information material. After reading the case, he will be brought to court and the court will take a decision. And so for everyone else: both the Rudy case and all the other things. All the things you called are being investigated, and they will be properly completed.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-12-m0.u50	Catherine Samuel, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-12-m0.u51	Thank you. Dear Eugene Mikolaiovich! In this room, we have repeatedly discussed the issue of increasing the stability fund of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Of course, the funds would have to go to the extraordinary situations that were rich in our lives and to cope with the economic crisis. Please tell me if the Attorney General's Office has not studied, has not checked, if it has checked, what are the consequences of using a stable fund. Because I'm surprised, for example, that the funds that were being allocated were being paid in such a way that it was these people who were the confidant of the appropriate candidate for the President of Ukraine. We know, as we came back from VAT: who, who, who, who, who, who, then, should be, to agitate -- this is politics, this is politics, when the government budget, the state treasury is used for a policy agreement. So I have a question for you: have the Attorney General's Office studied this direction of activity and use of funds?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-12-m0.u52	So now some of the materials about the Stability Fund are being tested by the Ukrainian Security Service and are being completed. Only one episode has already proved that more than 3 million bracelets of the Stability Fund have not been used for the purpose and have actually been used through shadow structures. There are also dozens of criminal cases involving the illegal return of value added tax. Such cases are being investigated by tax police investigators, some of them have already been completed, and the investigation is being brought to trial. Such a process is ongoing and ongoing investigations are ongoing.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-12-m0.u53	National deputy Cassianuk, faction of the region.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-12-m0.u54	Alexander Cassianuk, factions of the Party of the Regions. Please give Bondik the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-12-m0.u55	Valérie Bondick. The faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-12-m0.u56	Dear Eugene Mikolaiovich, the information we have heard suggests that most crimes have economic signs. So, please tell me, are the investigators involved, well, for the sake of objectivity of the investigation, for the defense and for the prosecution of any science-experimental institutions of an accounting or auditory warehouse? And one more question is: How is the compensation provided for the damage that is in the presence of these signs of crime? Because the amounts you've read are amazing, I see. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-12-m0.u57	Thank you. In every criminal case, and in the vast majority of cases, either bribes or economic crimes, the materials of the Audit Authority are primarily used. In addition, in these cases, court-accounting experts are assigned, which are carried out by scientists, and they are the only ones who are the basis for the evidence in the case. On all these matters, such experts are being conducted, and individual experts have been completed. Worse situation with damages. Yes, the property of the accused is subject to arrest. But the damage is far greater than the property on which the arrests were made. But such measures are being taken, bank secrets are being revealed within the framework of the law and arrests are being made.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-12-m0.u58	Vetwicki is referring the right to ask a question to his colleague Pashinski, the “BUT - “Fatherhood” faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-12-m0.u59	Your Honor, in the criminal case 49-2954, the Attorney-General's office was ordered to attract accused Timoshenko to Volodymyrna. According to this ruling, the investigator points out that Timoshenko, acting on purpose, decided to make a personal decision on the use of the funds that came from the sale of the greenhouse gas emission allowances to cover pension liabilities. You told us very well about the objectivity and impartiality of the prosecutor’s office. Please explain to the Prime Minister how he can incriminate the performance of his official duties under the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, and how criminal intent can be seen in this regard, which is the basis of a criminal case. And two more seconds. Mr. Prosecutor, I would like to point out that the institution most affected by the steel repression was the NCCD. And I do.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-12-m0.u60	Thank you. In the criminal case concerning Julia Timoshenko, there were grounds for a criminal case, and there were grounds for the prosecution. The investigation has been completed. There is an introduction to the material of the matter. And an assessment of the evidence provided by the investigation and the defense will be given by the court. Today, the investigation is convinced that the defendant in the case of Julia Timoshenko acted outside the limits permitted by law. In addition, it means, in fact, at times, that not only NKVD, the prosecutor’s office, but many other organizations were affected by it. And I'm sure the MPs will, too.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-12-m0.u61	Another Bogoslovak, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-12-m0.u62	Thank you. The attorney - general’s duties, all the circumstances you described today, which are the grounds for the criminal proceedings, were called when we were in opposition. And in fact, none of these cases are news, to the extreme of the MPs. We knew that the reserve fund was being stolen, we knew that the mobilisation fund was being stolen, we knew that the stabilization fund was doing re-election procedures and so on. But today we have heard that in fact the State budget was spent on weightless operations, as if they were buying sugar, flour, and meat. I want to ask you. In our time, we've made a statement that we know about the purchase of tens of millions of dollars of meat for places of deprivation, for isolation, for the NSA, but we don't have any right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-12-m0.u63	Such cases are criminalized by material. Checks carried out by the Auditor's Office, including at the request of the National Deputies, have been assigned such checks. And we set up isolated cases where the prisoners were given rotten cans instead of meat, or they were not there at all. Ukraine’s security forces have violated a criminal case involving one of the meatcombinants in the Odessa region, allegedly held in custody. In fact, there was no such meat. Total expenditure was incurred by state officials and prisoners did not receive food. In addition, on most matters, believe the same operations with grain, sugar, and meat products. Money was transferred to companies that were transferred to cash. And nobody thought anything.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-12-m0.u64	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-12-m0.u65	The last criminal case we ever committed against vaccines. The price of the vaccine was over 22 euros! When we got the data, the price of the vaccine is nine dollars, nine euros! Do you understand?Oh, my God! Cars. The 27 Renault vehicles purchased for the Ministry of Health have been abandoned by the Ministry of Health. Because they didn't fit. Thus, the same cars were sold to the Ministry of Emergency Situations three times more expensive because of another company!
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-12-m0.u66	Thank you, time's up, time's up. Dear colleagues! Please sit down. Dear colleagues! Since no proposals have been made regarding the Supreme Council’s draft decisions on hearing information, the Supreme Council of Ukraine takes the information to the knowledge, I understand. Dear colleagues! Perhaps you would agree with that suggestion, since we have already taken a break. To continue our fruitful work now and to consider the issues that are set out in the Wednesday schedule? No objections? Thank you. The draft Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Russian Federation on Cooperation in the Construction of Energy Clouds Nos. 3 and 4 of the Hmělnické AES is under review. Dear colleagues! There is a suggestion to consider this issue in a simplified way. Please vote. [[12:06:38]] For 199 Decision taken. The rapporteur is Deputy Minister of Fuel and Energy of Constantinov Mikola Igrovich. The Coroner is the first Deputy Head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Taras Cranovil, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-12-m0.u67	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! The draft Ukrainian Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Russian Federation on Cooperation in Construction of Energy Clouds Nos. 3 and 4 of the Hmělnice AES was developed in accordance with article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on International Contracts. The purpose of the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Agreement is to create the legal basis for the implementation of the measures for the construction of the 3th and 4th Hmělní AES energy cloud. Decisions on the construction of the energy grids were taken in 2009 and 2010 at a higher level of government, and are provided by the government of Ukraine. In order to achieve the cooperation envisaged by the Treaty, the Russian Federation provides funding under the State guarantees of the Government of Ukraine in the scope necessary for the design, construction and operation of energy cloud Nos. 3 and 4 of the hop AES, including for the payment of goods, works and services supplied from the Russian Federation to Ukraine, or purchased in Ukraine, provided partial co-financing is provided by the Ukrainian side. The State Budget of Ukraine for 2011 provides State guarantees under the NEC Energy Company’s commitment to the Energy Cloud Project No. 3 and 4 of the Hmelnicka AES. The issue of co-financing by the Ukrainian side will be resolved at the expense of the targeted nuclear energy tariff allowance and the credit costs of the NAEC Energy Agency. The adoption of Ukraine's Ratification Act does not require amendments to existing legislation and adoption of new ones. Honourable National Deputies, taking note of the above, and the relevance of the issue of the completion of the construction and operation of the Energy Clouds Nos. 3 and 4 of the Hmeljna AES, please support the adoption of the draft Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Russian Federation on Cooperation in Building Energy Clouds Nos. 3 and 4.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-12-m0.u68	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Crnowil Taras Viacheslavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-12-m0.u69	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished fellow national MPs! On the subject of this ratification, we specifically gathered our deputies yesterday, conducted all the surveys, and so forth. And I've had a little bit of a difficult situation, because the committee's decision in one vote is still for ratification, but one MP's expressed more, but part of the MPs, the overall position of the committee members in most of them was against it. But it happened that the part that opposed me, for some reason that I still did not understand, refused to participate in the committee meeting at all. But based on what we have, we have a draft ratification of the framework agreement on which all the following actions are to be carried out, including a loan agreement and so on: both land removal and the construction decision itself, and so on. And the main question that we've come up with is what should happen before, a chicken or an egg. And here's the answer, unfortunately, we don't get it from the document. Most committees that have considered, apart from fuel-energy, which has certainly supported, others have made serious warnings. There is no decision at all, no permit, no Supreme Council law, and no agreement with the local authorities on taking the land under the power plant. Yes, it will be, but obviously it would be the first action. There's a discrepancy. The Committee on Budgetary Questions asked that additional budgetary resources were needed. The Department of Fuel and Energy claims that these funds are not needed. Once again, there is a difference. A number of problems arise in preparation. The subject itself is essential. Ukraine needs nuclear power. We must today have this imbalance that has arisen between cheap nuclear power from nuclear power plants and the road -- from green tariffs, to compensate for something, to make up for something. Obviously this is the best way. Obviously, other options in the loan agreement have proved unrealistic, but under these conditions, it would be better if all normal procedures were followed and there were not as many observations as there was. I'm proving once again the decision that was made by the majority.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-12-m0.u70	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-12-m0.u71	Well, by a majority, it's a one-vote decision to support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-12-m0.u72	Thank you. Is there a need to discuss? Please sign up. Yes, Scybinetsky, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-12-m0.u73	Please pass the word to Yavorov.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-12-m0.u74	Honourable Parliamentarians, distinguished voters! Well, at first glance, everything is perfectly normal, there's an opportunity to have an investor and to build two more blocks at the Hmeln nuclear station, and more than that, the government is already saying that in mid-year, the price of electricity is actually going to double. So the logic of this is absolute. But even if we had a perfectly ideal relationship so fraternal that we cannot be more fraternal with Russia, it is obvious that every politician and every landlord should think about it, and why, in fact, we are tying all our nuclear energy to one single subject, to Russia. So we have to buy Russian fuel at the time, and we're not going to buy any more, because it's going to be Russian nuclear blocks. As a result, we bind ourselves even more than with gas, so I see no exit at all. Because of this, it would obviously be much smarter and at the level of national thinking, at the level of normal economic thinking, to involve other investors. We know that today brilliantly just atomic energy is in Germany, it's in France. And their energy blocks are calculated, as nuclear professionals say, stupidly, as a fool. So there's actually a catastrophe that happened to us in Chernobyl, and they just can't happen. I don't want to say anything bad, but we're already in Chernobyl, and we're the people who survived the Chernobyl disaster, and we're very suspicious of not just this one that blew up four blocks of RBMK-1000, and even the VVRs, on these, on fast neutrons there and so on. Because I don't think it's wise for us to make this decision today, much less what Cranwell said about the fact that the land was not taken, let's say, the same referendum among the people of the Hmielnicke district. Because of the rush today, you know, the neighborhoods run and quickly say, "Let's ratify it, sign it." We're putting the executives in the hands of a very dangerous person. It's a very dangerous document. Because of this, the Yulia Tymoshenko bloc will not support this ratification. And I ask you to do the same.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-12-m0.u75	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-12-m0.u76	They're not here. There's no political subtext here, there's nothing but common sense!
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-12-m0.u77	Popsicle, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-12-m0.u78	Sand, faction of the Party of the Regions. As has already been pointed out, the purpose of the ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Russian Federation on Cooperation in the Construction of Energy Clouds Nos. 3 and No.4 of the Hmelnicka AES, signed on 9 June 2010 in Kiev, is to create the legal basis for implementing measures for the construction of energy blocks Nos.3 and No.4 of the Hmelnica AES. And that's the first step. This, in turn, will ensure the timely implementation of the building of energy clouds Nos.3 and No.4 of the hop AES in defined terms. And even though the amount of credit, the terms and conditions of its allocation, the conditions and the order of servicing will be defined in separate credit agreements between the parties and it will be written there, as our colleagues have talked about, because the construction of Energy Clouds Nos.3 and No.4 of Hmelnicka AES is a task of state-wide importance for ensuring Ukraine's energy security, we propose to ratify the agreement that has been opened. the path for the next steps to ensure the timely construction of Energy Clouds Nos.3 and No.4 of the Hmelnicka AES. Conclusion. The Party of Regions is in favour of ratifying the Agreement and is asking the Supreme Council to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-12-m0.u79	Matthew passed it on to John the Rabbit. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-12-m0.u80	Ivan Hare, Ukrainian People's Party. Dear National Deputies! Today we are considering a treaty that is extremely unfavourable for Ukraine and a treaty that is made with a breach will be. tell us all our legislative requirements, and it does not meet the national interests of Ukraine. Why? First. Select a reactor. This is done on purely political terms, so that we do not become attached to Russia and solve the problem of weakening Ukraine’s energy dependence, particularly in terms of nuclear energy. The other one. You're not going to find an expertise, an environmental one, which is what this could lead to. We already had Chernobyl, and we know very well what it can turn out to be. We don't even have any hints of techno-economic justification, so we can't tell you how this part of the nuclear station is going to be built, whether the old elements that were put in there before are going to be destroyed, whether it's going to be a project, or whether it's going to cost the project. Obviously, he's traveling, this project. This is a covenant that makes great commitments to Ukraine. It has already been said that we should purchase only Russian nuclear fuel, not only because it is a Russian reactor, but also because the treaty itself states that even if this treaty is not implemented, we are still under an obligation to purchase Russian fuel. I mean, whatever you do, you take our fuel. Obviously, in nuclear power, someone's planning, someone's doing it -- that's not happening. That is, it is a purely political decision aimed at tying Ukraine further to Russia’s nuclear program in order not to weaken Ukraine’s energy dependence on Russia. It's not a state policy, it's a policy to destroy our independence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-12-m0.u81	Question completed. Let's put it to a vote. I'm voting on the proposal to ratify the agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Russian Federation on cooperation in the construction of the energy cloud Nos. 3 and No. 4 of the Steel Nuclear Power Plant. Please vote. [[12:18:49]] For 240 Decision taken. The draft Law on Amendments to Ukraine’s Laws on Reforming Certain Areas of the Agricultural Complex, registration number 4719, is under consideration. There's an offer: consider the simplified procedure. Please vote. [[12:19:28]] For 190 Offer supported. The report will be by Glussy Stepan Karlovich. You don't? Then please, the head of the Economic Policy Committee, Bondar Alexander Mikolayovich, please, the Committee's conclusion.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-12-m0.u82	Honourable Adam Ivanovich, honourable national deputies, Committee on Economic Policy at its meeting on October 5, 2010, reviewed the draft Law on Amendments to Ukraine’s Laws on Reforming Certain Areas of the Agricultural Complex, submitted by the Ukrainian National Deputies by Gluss and Klimec, and decided to recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine return the bill to the right of legislative initiative for further work. The project proposes to address the possibility of privatization of companies producing alcohol, vodka, liquor products and wine industries and their future activities. Members of the committee had two fundamental objections to this law. First, the government is currently preparing changes in the list of sites that are not subject to privatization and are now making changes that envision radical privatization of the alcohol industry, is considered to be inappropriate, premature. The issue of the removal of alcoholic beverages was repeatedly raised, but no issue of alcohol removal was ever raised, as suggested in the bill. Another objection is that the bill gives priority to the purchase of a property rental facility that produces alcohol and alcoholic beverages. According to committee members, this is unacceptable, as this will result in a reduction in revenue to the State budget and would contradict the privatization law, which provides for competition and sales methods, such as competition and auction. A measure such as the transfer to renters of enterprises will lead to the monopolism of this sector, an increase in prices. And they're going to be privatized, basically, to profitable enterprises, and they're going to be left with government property. So I'm stressing that the committee is proposing to reject this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-12-m0.u83	Thank you. Is there a need to discuss? Besides Carmazin, who else insists? Then please, Carmazin, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-12-m0.u84	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. The honest national MPs, unfortunately, haven't been working since January 1st on the anti-corruption laws that we've adopted here with you and that the whole world has been paying attention to, in particular, and conducting anti-corruption expertise on every law, every decree, every decree that there is. In my opinion, the law that we have now adopted on ratification is very simple, Adam Ivanovich, passed a law that had only the hints of the agreement on the purposes of everything, and we have adopted it as a law immediately in the first reading and in general, and this law, which is now reported by colleague Bondar, has clear signs of those who fall under corruption. Because it offers the absolute inadequacy of the name of the law and its contents. It's called "reforming certain sectors of the agro-industrial complex," and since many deputies don't have the law, they think, well, they're reforming something, they want to do something good. In fact, when we discover it, we read that the Supreme Council decides: to establish special conditions for the privatization of the alcohol and alcohol industries, and beyond, including the land on which these enterprises are located. Because of this, it's quite right for the committee to conclude that this is the law that deals with the actual privatization of the income enterprises that they have today, and here is their list, the honourable people's deputies. Colossal lists all over Crimea. I'm surprised it's Koktebel on Crimea.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-12-m0.u85	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-12-m0.u86	I'm done, thank you. In the Donetsk region, it is also the famous Champagne Wine Factory, and Zitomirsk. Which is where you want the area -- the profit companies themselves, the people who make the profit to the state today. That is why I ask you to reject this bill and continue to see such bills as lobbying. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-12-m0.u87	Thank you. One minute. Please, School.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-12-m0.u88	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. I don't know what one minute, it just didn't happen. But in one minute, however, everything, I think, can be formulated. This law, as in the previous one, belongs not only to corruption but also to anti - Ukrainian and anti - Ukrainian schemes. So I'm confident that the Party of Regions, together with the associates, will vote in favour of this agreement and ratify the agreement. And this law will also be passed. This is where the words “for the destruction of Ukraine” are written, and this law is voted first. Because they are called upon to destroy what feeds them, because they view it not as a country that provides them with life and prosperity, but as a hateful kiosk or a plant that they are used to protecting. So I actually support that the most profitable, the most delicious assets of the state will now go into the private hands of the representatives of the Party of Regions. Congratulations, I think the citizens who voted for them will be happy that Ukraine will be robbed again.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-12-m0.u89	They've checked in, they've already registered. I turned around, I said again, I was talking about who wanted to sign up. Nobody wanted anything but Carmazin. That's enough. Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues! I would like to emphasize once again: from the faction, Mr. Yavorowski, they have spoken, so calm down. I repeat: two for, two against. I asked if there was a need for writing. There were no such desires. That's one thing. The other one. Dear colleagues! Why do you just get excited where there's absolutely no reason? You weren't at the Supreme Council meeting yesterday? The Supreme Council voted yesterday to prohibit the privatization of those enterprises that you are talking about today. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm voting on the bill number 4719. I'd like to make up my mind. [[12:27:28]] For-0 The bill did not support any vote. It's off-limits. Please, Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-12-m0.u90	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! Respectable voters! You see, by one vote, the majority has unleashed a disgusting lie that has been made out of the mouth of a respected opposition from the BUT, that the Party of the Regions or the majority is in favour of some anti-national law. Never! We support only what the State needs, in the interests of the country, for the benefit of every Ukrainian citizen. Therefore, once again, I repeat, we will expose, dispel the disgusting lie that lies on the majority, on the productive, effective, life-saving decisions that today's state authorities make. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-12-m0.u91	Bill 5462 is under consideration, the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation to improve criminal responsibility for individual crimes against human property and human integrity. There's a proposal for a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[12:29:08]] For 180. Offer supported. Please, Moses. I can't see. Bevs Valeriy Ananiyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-12-m0.u92	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues, your opinion is proposed in Bill 5462, the drafters of the bill are the national MPs Moysik and Mishchenko. Its title for amending some Ukrainian legislation on improving criminal responsibility for individual crimes against human property and human integrity. The practice of applying criminal law has revealed the need for a clearer definition at the legislative level of such concepts as “residential”, “other property”, “premises”, “restoration”, and so on. In dealing with this issue and changes in accordance with these acts, the drafters refer to the four articles of the Criminal Code 162, 185, 186 and 187. The subject of criminal justice is not only the right to inviolability of housing, but also the right to inviolability of any possession of a person. In addition, the courts apply the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms and the practice of the European Court of Human Rights as a source of law. Because not all issues are settled in existing criminal legislation. In view of this, the Supreme Court of Ukraine has directly applied the European Court of Human Rights ruling as a source of law and in its clarifications, draws the attention of the courts to the obligation to apply them, and in the decision of the Plenary of the Supreme Court of 28 March 2008, it has been clarified that it should be understood under the “residentship” and other authority of a person who is obviously to be taken into account in the definition of “resident” in the footnote to article 185 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine. The most correct, according to the authors of the bill, is likely to be the addition of the corresponding parts to articles 185: theft, 186: robbery and so on.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-12-m0.u93	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-12-m0.u94	The robbery, 186, and 187, is a violation of the Ukrainian Criminal Code. The main scientific and expert office, having considered this bill, has made many, let's say, changes in additions and denies its acceptance as such. Although the bill was recommended at the committee meeting for consideration in the walls of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-12-m0.u95	Thank you. Is there a need to discuss? Sign up. Yes, please, School.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-12-m0.u96	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich! I am pleased to hear the position of the committee, which also supports the relevant bill. The point is that improving criminal responsibility for individual crimes against human property and integrity is the part that has always needed improvement in Ukrainian legislation. You can argue about the subject because I agree that the proper administration of the Supreme Council has also given a sufficiently qualified assessment of the problems that exist in the bill. But I think this is the first reading that we can vote for and vote for. I very much hope that my criticism has had a place and an impact on the faction of the Party of Regions, and it also supports the relevant bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-12-m0.u97	Please, Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-12-m0.u98	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! I'm always very excited to study all the changes to the Criminal Code. And because he's dedicated three years of his life to working on the Criminal Code that works today. Regrettably, today we have seen a report from the Attorney General’s report that he is applying, in fact, selectively this Criminal Code, because there is no penalty for obstacles to activity or to a national MP or to a party. Because the government's audit tenders aren't being conducted, they're just being determined how they want to do it, and no one's breaking up criminal cases. As it was not a criminal case, and I think it was the Attorney General's responsibility to start here to say that 80 million are being violated: misfunded and misutilized funds in the Security Service and the Ministry of Internal Affairs have been attracted by a number of employees. There's no message. Why not? - I have a question with the Attorney General. Tell your society that you have brought responsibility to those who are to blame. We're not attracted. Illegal searches, illegal attraction, and without a lawyer, they didn't tell us anything about it. So this law, which is now being proposed to be rejected by scientific and scientific authorities, is needed. Because of this, this law actually gives an explanation in that footnote: What is housing? And that housing is also a building where a person lives. And in this footnote, this footnote to article 162 provides for all of this. That's why I'm proposing to adopt this bill in the first reading and then something.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-12-m0.u99	Thank you. Question completed. I am voting for the adoption on the basis of Bill 5462 on amending some Ukrainian legislation on improving criminal responsibility for individual crimes against human property and human integrity. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:36:10]] For-99 The bill is not supported. Considered rejected. A draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine is under consideration. [[on the declaration of revenue and expenditure of senior officials authorized to perform the functions of the State and local self-government authorities and their loved ones]] [[Registration number 5493]] There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[12:36:57]] For 181 Offer supported. I invite you to the author's report on the bill, People's MP, Arseny Petrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-12-m0.u100	Dear national deputies, good afternoon. I would like to start not with the anti-corruption bill, because it is clear that the vast majority will fail. Not the first bill I'm introducing, out of 21 anti-corruption bills. Corruption has now become part of social morality. You want to make up for the VAT -- 35 percent in cash. You want a license, put the money in your pocket. So this is now part of the power. I'd like to talk about the day of opposition as a whole. It seems to me that it's best to take away the opposition day at all and send deputies on the day of the opposition to public works: clean up the garbage, clean up the snow. Because today’s opposition day in this Supreme Council has become a pure farce. I looked at the statistics on the bills that were passed by Parliament. Of the 300 bills put forward by the opposition then, it is you, who today represent the vast majority, during my leadership of the Supreme Council of Ukraine 15 percent, and more specifically nearly 50 laws, that the opposition was passed. Of the 500 bills tabled by today's opposition, I can't thank you, as much as 2 percent or 13 bills have been passed. I think it is necessary at all to stop the farce in the form of a day of opposition and, firstly, adopt the Law of Ukraine amending the Rules of the Supreme Council, to determine the rights of minorities in Parliament, to determine the rights of opposition in Parliament. I think it'll be very useful for the Party of Regions, because sooner or later, you're going to be in opposition. So I want to protect your rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-12-m0.u101	From the committee. Hasn't Stratovic Volodymyr Mikolaiovich come yet? Are they willing to share in the discussion? Yes. A lot of questions are sinister. Please sign up. There's no way out of Carmagine today. Please, Yuri Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-12-m0.u102	Yuri Carmazin. In fact, we know better in heaven who to give the word to. Dear friends, I really want to confirm everything Arseny Petrovich Yatsenuk said. Yesterday, I received a call from the judges after the collapse of our bill, which changed the order of delivery and improved judicial activity. I've been on the phone and they say, "Can't the regionals understand what they're doing?" Say, "He says, to the one who waves with his right hand. And I say, no, we have to tell whoever's on the phone. And I don't have that line of communication to tell the person who's on the phone. So I'm saying here, so Arseny Petrovich, we need to talk to whoever's on the phone from there, what laws to adopt or not to take. In the meantime, the team is one: all that goes away from the opposition is rejected. But I think very soon they'll realize that this is the wrong position. They'll soon understand when they see what they've done now and now they're proving the state and its authority. And so, the declaration of expenditure, which is now provided for in this law, this Karmazin, who is speaking here, was proposed 12 years ago. 12 years ago, as a parrot, I tried hard to raise you. But they didn't want to do it. Finally, in these three laws it was established. It's been canceled, no. As a result, the bill introduced by Arsenius Petrovich Yatzenuk is acceptable in the first reading. Because this is where all the fees are due.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-12-m0.u103	Complete, but do not make long introductions. This is your last warning.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-12-m0.u104	Thank you, thank you, Adam Ivanovich, for your democratic kindness. So those articles that are now being introduced, they're saying that at least there might be some attempt to put order in the state. And an attempt to declare expenses to the highest officials. And try not to be coexist.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-12-m0.u105	Thank you. Pavlovsky, please, Andrew. From the spot, please. Chechnya get ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-12-m0.u106	Respectable compatriots! An important bill. Really, it's not a new idea. This is not the first time that it has been introduced to amend Ukraine’s laws regarding the declaration of not only income but also the cost of the state’s superiors and their close relatives. And I think this topic is more relevant than ever. Because recently the government has abolished three anticorruption laws, three of which have been suspended by the government. Then it was calculated that corruption should not be fought in our country. Well, I can see why. As the previous speaker said, because corruption is now the basis of the life of today's power. And I'd like to, I think, and that's why they don't want to declare. Because some high - ranking farmers can write down 140 acres [140 ha] of land from Medjugorje? Will they declare it or not? And other questions. So I think we need to support this bill. Even though I realize that the vast majority will not vote for him, once again it will be an assessment of that, people will see. Who's worth it, who's fighting for. And once again, I want to use the rostrum of the Supreme Council to call upon today's authorities to stop political repression against their predecessors, against political opponents because there are other means of influence, including opposition, against opposition. And not to beat a chair in the face as it does in this room, when people are beaten for thinking otherwise, because they see different ways of developing our country. We must put an end to this disgrace and stop the mass political repression. Because not only former high-ranking owners, but largely now entrepreneurs who fought for their rights against the Tax Code are now being repressed, as are representatives of the patriotic opposition, patriotic organizations such as Trident.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-12-m0.u107	Please, Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-12-m0.u108	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! With all due respect for the great, powerful Soviet Union in which we were all born, we were educated, we became ministers, we became deputies, we became great people of the State. But today the Party of the Soviet Union is not building. We don't build. We don't build. What is the difference between the Soviet Union and the democratic State? There was one decision in the Soviet Union. It was an unalterable decision, no one criticized it, everyone made it. What is the power of democratic peace? And the strength is that there is a party that has won, which has formed a majority in Parliament, which has elected the Government, and which, in a single bond, is implementing a programme with which it has won the elections. And there's opposition. What are the functions of the opposition? And the functions of the opposition are to criticize power, to use the rostrum to criticize power, to make alternative decisions, but not in any democratic country of the world, even in an African country where democracy is just beginning, there is democracy, too, so to speak, as we go in the beginning of the path of democracy, and there is no such thing as a minority decision to support the majority. If you can convince me it's the right thing to do, it's the first decision Mr. Schkel said we wouldn't vote, it's there. What we are about to vote, it was against the interests of the country – we did not vote. But for empty, voting bills, not confirmed, there, with finance or a declaration plan, we will not vote. So convince yourself, prove it and give me some content bills, we'll vote. That's what democracy is all about. You get a tribune to argue your position.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-12-m0.u109	Please, Stratovic from the committee, two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-12-m0.u110	Dear Lord Chairman, dear colleagues! The Supreme Council Committee on Law Enforcement has considered a draft law amending certain Ukrainian laws on the declaration of revenue and expenditure of senior officials authorized to perform the functions of the State, the authorities of local self-government. The bill proposes amendments that propose innovations to the Criminal Code, to the Code of Administrative Offences, to the Code of Laws of Ukraine on Work, which provides for a stronger responsibility for violations of the legislation on declaration. I want to say that I'm reporting a committee decision that doesn't match my personal opinion, because the committee, after a lengthy discussion, decided to support the proposals of the scientific and expert management of the Supreme Council's apparatus and to recommend to the Supreme Council the results of the first reading of this bill to reject. I find this position wrong on the grounds that this topic is not new. As early as 2003, a similar bill was followed in July, and he did not find support. It is now proposed to amend the Anti-Corruption Policy Act, which has already been annulled by our convening of the Supreme Council. At the same time, in the new Anti-Corruption Act, there is no rule that important individuals declare their income and their relatives. This means that we are taking a step backwards, through close relatives, through our brothers - in - law, our sisters, our brothers, our grandfathers, to legalize what is obtained illegally. In my opinion, it would be legally appropriate to adopt this bill in the first reading, in order to send a signal, for the elaboration of a more global, fundamental basic law on the principles of prevention of corruption, where this rule should be contained, and to include it in the preparation period for the second reading. In connection with the inclusion of this law, the law on second reading would not automatically be passed. And so we would show all of our people and Europe that we go from words to action and we start resisting corruption. The committee does not support this bill, the majority voted for it. My personal position is that this bill should be approved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-12-m0.u111	Thank you. But at the same time, you said correctly that we have a basic bill under consideration, and so these proposals absolutely have the right to submit a second reading to the basic bill. And that would be much more logical than adopting a separate bill. Yes, please, factions that did not participate. Zybenko, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-12-m0.u112	Thank you. Communist faction, Peter Cibenko. Dear colleagues, you and I have witnessed further innovation from the opposition. What we're talking about is that the author of the bill from the opposition went to the rostrum, and he didn't say a word in the sense of the law, broke it down and left. So I would like to say that maybe we should really listen to the proposal in this case of the author of the bill, which was something from another sphere, and as he said, stop this farce, because in this session the opposition blocked the days of the opposition three times, to the Supreme Council meeting on the day of the opposition, it did not vote in favour of the bills, and then it brought the statistics that it cited. So maybe this time we should really listen to Mr. Yatsenuk's suggestions and cancel it, because it's really extremely difficult for them to go to the Supreme Council, vote, push the button, and what else to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-12-m0.u113	Thank you. Question completed. I put to the vote a bill number 5493 amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[on the declaration of revenue and expenditure of senior officials authorized to perform the functions of the State and local self-government authorities and their loved ones]] I'd like to make a statement. [[12:51:21]] For 118 The factions? Please, by the factions. Region Party – 2, Fatherland – 79, “Our Ukraine” – 36, Communists, National Party – none, non-fractional – 1. The bill is rejected. Please tell the school.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-12-m0.u114	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. I was beginning to doubt that you would give me your word. This would emphasize that the Supreme Council at least remembers a simple position that, when it mentions a name, it removes a representative of the Party of the Regions who tried through one vote that. I am, in principle, convinced that my criticism has forced you not to uphold the anti-Ukrainian law. But before that, you've supported another one by giving the Ukrainian nuclear reactors the non-alternative use of Russian fuel, or Russian tweeds, instead of taking care of the Ukrainian state, you'd be worried about introducing a wealth bill. A uranium enrichment factory in Ukraine, not you would have paid and kept the neighbouring state. But in most cases you're defending the interests of this very state and that's what you're called to be here in the Supreme Council. So do not be offended by your true and honest comments about your activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-12-m0.u115	Good thing he didn't hear you. We are considering a draft Act amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine. [[on the strengthening of responsibility for official crimes committed by senior officials authorized to perform the functions of the State and local self-government]] The author of the bill is Yatsenuk. There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. Please be supportive. [[12:53:27]] For-188. Offer supported. I can't see the author anymore. Then please, Stretsch from the committee. Vladimir Mikolaiovich, two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-12-m0.u116	Dear colleagues, the Committee of the Supreme Council on Law Enforcement, considered the bill. The purpose of the bill is to ensure a systematic and effective response to corruption by official crimes committed by senior officials authorized to perform the functions of the State, the authorities of local self-government. The bill provides for the strengthening of penalties for senior officials authorized to perform the functions of the State, local self-government bodies for the commission of official crimes, in particular for offences such as possession, property disposal and seizure by way of abuse of office, the legalization of proceeds obtained by criminal means; deliberate violation of the requirements of legislation on prevention and resistance to the legalization of proceeds obtained by criminal means; violations of the legislation on the budgetary system, the issuance of regulatory or administrative acts that alter the income and expenditure of the budget in violation of the law; the establishment of a criminal organization, the promotion of members of criminal organizations, the concealment of a criminal organization and so on. Of these, 7 are supplemented by sanctions that provide for the permanent deprivation of liberty for senior officials authorized to perform the functions of the State, local self-government bodies, namely 191; the legalization of the laundering of proceeds obtained by criminal means – 209; the creation of a criminal organization, banditry, the abuse of power or official status, the taking of bribes, the decision of judges to the extent of the unjust movement of the decision, the adoption or decrees. [[possession, destruction, possession of property, or abuse of a position of service]] An analysis of these changes suggests that these changes are mainly due to the introduction of a new qualification mark for a special subject of crime, namely, a higher official authorized to perform the functions of the State. Complemented sanctions for these standards are alternative, the main type of punishment: permanent deprivation of liberty. First of all, it is obvious that the title of the bill already uses terms that will create a fairly sensitive legal coalition, in particular the term “staff crimes”, “the higher officials authorized to perform the functions of the State”. Today, the term “service person” is used in existing legislation in conjunction with the term “service person”. [[Criminal Code]] [[Ukrainian State Service Act]] This disagreement will make it difficult to apply this legislation if it is approved. The committee at its meeting decided to recommend rejecting the bill as such.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-12-m0.u117	Finish up. Thank you. Is there a need to discuss? Yes, please sign in. Yeah, why don't we give Carmazin this time? Please, Karmazin, Yavorowski is next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-12-m0.u118	Yuri Carmazin. Adam Ivanovich, the computer gives, so you will give, even though you are our most democratic, but not least. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill proposes to amend the 16 articles of the Criminal Code by 16, I emphasize. All changes involve a special subject, a senior official authorized to perform functions of state and local self - government. I mean, it's a specific bill, I'd say. Arsenija Petrovich isn't in the hall right now, is she? But I would say that the bill reminds me, let's say, of transferring Chinese experience to Ukrainian land. Why? Because the criminal code is still valid for crimes that are and for getting bribes on a particularly large scale, and for abuse of power from seven to twelve years. The project, on the other hand, envisions an increase in the penalty for these acts from 12 to 15 years of imprisonment, or even permanent deprivation of liberty. Well, is the analogy with China being asked? But given that it is only for senior officials, it is obviously justified in today’s conditions, absolutely justified. Because of the fact that, please think about it, we have heard a report today about what is being drawn for something there by high-ranking people, at the same time 12 of our colleagues, using the status of the national MP, that is, the intrusiveness, are today signing documents, firing someone from their jobs. For thousands of people, they have their own subordination. They have people, they have money and they distribute it, they make it every day.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-12-m0.u119	Thank you. Yuri Anatolyevich, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-12-m0.u120	In the first reading, I would like to support this bill, but a little less these Chinese measures of colossal responsibility. Let's cut it a little bit. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-12-m0.u121	Yavorowski, please. Get ready for Stoyan.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-12-m0.u122	Dear colleagues, it is unfortunate, of course, that the heroic author of this need for a bill is now giving an interview for television, not standing here on the stand. I don't think that's normal. It seems to me that the more we imitate the fight against corruption in Ukraine, and it has one of the first places on the list of corrupt countries today, the more we encourage corruption itself. And the bills that are being proposed here and many of our actions, because this is all ours, what we're talking about here, broadcasts and has a direct impact on people. Because we're living in a country where people who protect huge government interests for billions of dollars are sitting today, I don't usually say that they're all sitting in jail, and those who are from the state budget for their own business are attaching millions of money to the dozen governor, to someone else, they're running the state today, and they're applauding them. Because this is how we fight corruption. In fact, they destroyed everyone, threw out all the laws that had been so far with such suspense, with so much pain, with such a struggle adopted, we threw them out, and instead we put in a completely toothless presidential bill, which once again only encourages corruption. This is because I think a brilliant, beautiful, realistic bill of our colleague Gristenka, who was introduced to the Supreme Council, was thrown out. Because of this power of the Jaciny, which he made, of course, it is very interesting. And if this bill were adopted, it would, of course, stop a lot of abuses, first and foremost, in the upper, middle, but leading echelons of our Ukrainian government. This law is very easy to relate to the previous one that we discussed, and if they were adopted, maybe a little bit of a shift has taken place. But I am convinced that this bill will not be voted on by a “breathed” majority. As a result, please hold this number, and corruption in Ukraine will flourish in the first.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-12-m0.u123	Yes, please, Stoyan.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-12-m0.u124	Respectful colleagues are certainly vital to the law. And based on what we've heard before this report or so information from the Attorney General about the crimes committed by the former authorities. You know, to be honest, after acting as Attorney General, I thought that in opposition, no more tongues would come back to say that they were political orders. Because it's a real crime. Because there was no politics in the report, there were facts, specific facts, millions, hundreds of thousands, and, indeed, these people should be responsible for what they did. Because I saw a story on TV yesterday. A young man stole a block of cigarettes, a cigarette. It's been planted. And here they put the cost blocks, and there's the opposition, and it says it's a political order. People are good, have a conscience, set aside. Because it's understandable why your leader said I was responsible for every member of my team. That's the team and the leader. Because she steals the team, steals the leader. So, of course, increasing the responsibility of officials is a double penalty: for taking office, for taking office, and for taking office. And as for the examples. So I'd like to, no Arsenius Petrovich, he's probably better off thinking he's gonna sweep the streets or clean the snow. True, there is no snow. Well, that's what he'll earn, because he's got nothing to do here, he comes here once a month when he needs to, excuse me, say something. So I'd like to say to Mr. Yatzenyuk. I could give an example, if I had to, I'd bring it. When one person came out of Timoshenko's office, another person came in and said, "Yes, you're going to do this, but 40 percent is going to go away. This person can be confirmed in writing. That was your policy, that was your position. And when our political power began to fight the bandits today, you hang political labels. There is no politics -- there is crime and there is crime. And we have to answer. I want to uphold this law in order to strengthen the responsibility of those who have robbed today and must bear responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-12-m0.u125	Question completed. I am voting on the adoption in the first reading of the draft Act amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine. [[on the strengthening of responsibility for official crimes committed by senior officials and authorized to perform the functions of the State and local self-government]] Registration number 5494. Both the committee and the scientific and scientific authorities are proposing to reject the bill. I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:04:05]] For 104 The bill was rejected. We are considering a draft Act amending articles 68 and 69-1 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine. [[concerning the imposition of punishment for an unfinished crime]] Registration number 6219. There's a proposal for a reduced procedure, please support. [[13:04:41]] For 181 Offer supported. Musik Volodymyr Romanovich, author of the initiative. Then, please, from the Behalez Valeriy Ananiyovich Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-12-m0.u126	Dear colleagues! Let's not be investigators or prosecutors or judges in this room. God is gods, Caesar is Caesar's. The bill is now essentially proposed. At a meeting of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Law Enforcement, held on 17 November 2010, the draft Law of Ukraine amending articles 68, 69 with the symbol one of the Criminal Code of Ukraine was discussed by the Ukrainian National MP. [[concerning the imposition of punishment for an unfinished crime]] Registration number 6219. The purpose of the bill is to specify the provisions of articles 68 and 69 with the symbol one of the Criminal Code of Ukraine to ensure that the punishment for preparing for crime and attempted crime is properly imposed, as well as circumstances that mitigate punishment. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine considers that the first reading of the bill should be rejected. At the same time, the bill is supported by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine, who believe that the proposed changes are consistent with the principle of legal certainty and will promote the same application of the rules on the imposition of punishment for an unfinished crime and the existence of circumstances that mitigate punishment. The Committee also notes that the introduction of appropriate amendments to the Criminal Code will allow for the clarification of its provisions regarding the imposition of penalties, improve the relevant jurisprudence and recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the basis of its first reading to adopt the bill as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-12-m0.u127	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Shall we discuss it? Please sign up. Please, Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-12-m0.u128	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank my colleague Bezu for his understanding and correctness, and I have made clear the opinion of this bill. And once again, to emphasize that, unfortunately, the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority does not understand the design or usefulness of the project, unfortunately. They are not the first to be beaten in a stand, and I would like to draw the attention of the head of the Board of Directors, who is unable to continue to do so. It needs to be combined with legal administration, and the contractions will be carried out, and it is likely not to be studied twice, and the conclusions will likely be more professional. And for those of you who don't see the bill, I want to remind you that this is about the second part of article 68, which is called the assignment. These include the assignment of punishment for an unfinished crime and for a crime committed in cooperation, the fact that it cannot exceed the amount of time required for the preparation of the sentence or for the half-time maximum term or the extent of the most severe type of punishment provided for in the special code article. Since this is in paragraph 4, which is now being supplemented, it is clear that this rule does not apply if the sanction of the article provides for the penalty of imprisonment in the form of permanent deprivation of liberty, it is not possible to allocate it in half. That is why such an amendment is made by a practicing judge who came here to judge a fellow judge named Moses. This is why we need to accept it. And we have to take it in the first, and in the second reading, we have to take it right away -- there's absolutely no risk in that. Comrade Beavez of the committee can confirm that. But it's the right thing to do, because when we adopted the code, we didn't see what could happen.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-12-m0.u129	Yes, the discussion is over. I am voting on the draft Act amending articles 68 and 68-1 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine. [[concerning the imposition of punishment for an unfinished crime]] Registration number 6219. Please vote. [[13:10:06]] For-103 Not supported. There's an offer to send the author for work. Please vote. [[13:10:38]] For 263 The bill is aimed at further development. We are considering a bill amending the Ukrainian Armed Forces Act, Bill 5422. [[on ensuring an adequate level of funding]] There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. [[13:11:13]] For 185 Offer supported. I mean, it's gonna be from the Hare authors, right? Please Ivan Alexandrovich, 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-12-m0.u130	Ivan Hare, Ukrainian People's Party. Dear People’s Deputies, we are the authors of the bill. — Yuri Kostenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-12-m0.u131	Wait, Ivan Alexanderovich. Dear colleagues, among the drafters of the bill are: Kostenko, Jojik, and Hare. So anyone has a right to report. Please. Start over.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-12-m0.u132	Yes, please don't disturb, a serious subject. Dear People's Deputies, we are the authors of the bill: Yuri Kostenk, John Zayj, and Jaroslav Jódzik are also proposed to record at the legislative level at least 2 percent of the gross domestic product of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. Why do we propose to set such a level of funding? First. For we remember the national wisdom: “He who does not feed his army will feed the stranger.” The other one. Real funding for the Ukrainian Armed Forces has been carried out over the past few years, between 30 and 50 percent of the United States Armed Forces Development Program. Third. Practically in recent years, the financing of the Ukrainian Armed Forces is at less than 1 percent of GDP. According to world practice, lowering the financing costs of the Armed Forces is less than 1 percent of GDP, resulting in irreversible destruction of the army. The State’s individual senior officials try to convince society and the military themselves that the military’s financial situation is not convincing because of the economic crisis. The crisis did not affect the level of financing of the BSP, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, and other power structures. This low level of funding for the Armed Forces has led to a sharp decline in the number of military units ready to carry out tasks even in peacetime. Until we stop the work on the modernization of weapons and the re-arms of the Armed Forces. Let's do it. To ensure the security of the nation in this harsh world, to at least a little compensation for the security losses associated with the ruling majority of decisions on Ukraine’s non-blocking. Neutral Switzerland, a population of 8 million, has a budget of 4 billion euros. That's about 40 for our money or maybe even 50.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-12-m0.u133	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-12-m0.u134	We have a budget of 13 and a half billion dollars. Therefore, it is our responsibility to provide adequate funding for the Ukrainian Armed Forces. A strong army is a guarantee that children of Ukrainians will not be cannonballs in other people's hands. So I propose to the people's deputies to vote in favour of this bill and eventually to ensure Ukraine's security. This is our direct responsibility. Let us not hide behind ordinary citizens.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-12-m0.u135	Thank you. From the Anatoly Stepanovich Grizzenko Committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-12-m0.u136	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! I ask, despite fatigue, to hear what I say. This is exactly the situation, as in the famous film Zolotuhina “This is no longer the way to live”. Our committee reviewed the state of funding the armed forces and, in writing, directed our opinion to the Chief of the Supreme Council. A few quotes from that material. “The situation in the army is close to disaster.” That's the first one. The other one. “The armed forces are no longer in a position to carry out the task of peacetime, not the localization of conflicts, not the war, but the peaceful time of fighting is impossible. The officer’s warehouse is demoralized.” This is a quote from that committee, and not only did Gritsenko, Greenewecki, Kuzmuk, Kinah, Samuelenko, Scybinetsky and many others vote for it. People who understand what's going on in the army. Therefore, “you cannot continue to live like this”. And what's now being allocated to the armies is actually the budget for the destruction. I'm not talking about the prosecutor's office, which has been increased by 85 percent, and they're still saying, give me one and a half billion, but give me the minimum. It's not even there. Therefore, the committee unanimously voted in favour of this legislative initiative, all five factions. Please support in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-12-m0.u137	Thank you. Please sign up. Viachelav Kirilenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-12-m0.u138	Viacheslav Kirilenko, Party for Ukraine! Dear colleagues, especially after the speech of the head of the profile committee, it is clear that the issue is not secondary and very serious. And if the budget in Ukraine had not been accepted as a budget in 10 minutes last year or as a budget in 30 minutes this year, there would certainly not have been such distortions when all the forces were getting increased and some were getting stronger, and the Ministry of Defence, the Ukrainian Armed Forces, the Ukrainian naval forces were virtually left at the same level. And this is what this room says today, at a level that doesn't allow even in peacetime. We've got to get ready. We should not hesitate to do so. In addition, I made a proposal at my own time to hear the state of affairs in the Ukrainian Navy. This is especially relevant when most people have ratified, I take it as a "ratified" word, the agreement that the Russian fleet will remain in our territory for another 25 years. Many of their ships are doing things there, so they don't pay Sevastopol any more. Ukrainian ships are too few, Ukrainian officers and sailors, and their wages are much lower. So I go to the ruling majority and I go to the Head of the Ukrainian State. Can it not be that a Ukrainian military officer in his territory receives less than a foreign base serving on foreign ships? I'm calling on the head of the Kyiv City Administration to renew the construction programme for the troops of the Ukrainian Navy in Sevastopol. And to restore a whole range of other funding programs for the Ukrainian Navy. Because to get what's left over, I don't think it's the task of any Ukrainian authority. And so in this context, I draw attention to the question now raised by the distinguished colleague of the national MP John the Rabbit for consideration by the plenary. I suggest, if most people don't support it, at least not to throw the bill away, but to return it to the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-12-m0.u139	Please, Yavorowski. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-12-m0.u140	I can't refuse to ask Mikola Tomenka to give him his word.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-12-m0.u141	Dear colleagues! I think the question is absolutely legitimate, because in a strategic sense, no one refused. The president of Ukraine on Ukrainian Army Day made it clear that he was being set up. And all the authorities will be building a mobile professional Ukrainian army. And I have a question, how can you build a mobile professional Ukrainian army with this attitude towards financial, organizational, material state? I wouldn't ask that question, but I would look at what is the principle of justice in financing other law enforcement and national security agencies. Instead, there is a fantastic discrepancy between the increase in funding for the BSCs, the Public Prosecutor's Office, the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the Ministry of Defence. It's as if it's going as soft as surrendering an army. Just to bankrupt her, she was destroyed as strategic enterprises were bankrupted. Specially bankrupted, then sold. Same story. It's like an anecdote to go into captivity. I believe that we cannot allow such a situation as the Parliament of Ukraine. And despite the tactical moments that the budget has been approved, we have, you know, made a decision, well, more specifically, the Supreme Council has decided that the results of the first quarter of the budget are being reviewed. I think it's absolutely realistic, for example, to take the first reading and think about how to act on the first quarter budget changes. Would it be possible to hold parliamentary or committee hearings to see how this Ukrainian mobile professional army would be built? They can't just survive in the army. They can't just do business. I've been saying for a long time that, well, it's not the army and officers' business today to think about how to survive by alienating property, land there and something else. This function should be taken from the army, but the army should clearly understand that the state guarantees it how it works. Obviously, you have to think, if mobile, professional, Ukrainian, as we do in the military department and students who are serving there. You know, last year, they've been in the service for seven days. That's what it's like to train Ukrainian army officers if he's been in the service for seven days. So this is also a question that needs to be analyzed, starting with: 2 months, 45 days, now 7 days. And there was heat, I think, for five days, because it's been cut. So once again I want to say, let's take this very seriously, and from the results of the budget review on, after the first quarter, we will really find the possibility of financing an army at the right level as the Ukrainian army of our nation.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-12-m0.u142	Please, Dry.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-12-m0.u143	Dear colleagues! I'm fully aware of the responsibility for everything I'm about to say. I know perfectly well, I understand how we're going to be, whether we're not voting for this bill, but I want to draw your attention to this. The authors should thank only for bringing the bill into the session hall. Because it is the Armed Forces of Ukraine that are contracting military complexes and high technology. People, all these computers, all these GPSs in the national economy came from there, high technologies in medicine, including neurosurgery came from military hospitals, from where people were given help in working conditions. From there came new medicines, which were tested there, and they now came into the national household. The lack of funding for the defence system is a lack of funding for the military complex. The military-industrial complex is that locomotive, and someone likes it or doesn't like it, and they're pulling all the machine-building. 534 million dollars a year for military personnel. What is it? What's that supposed to mean? Michael Tomenko said right, they don't need to sell anything out there. But, colleagues, there are reserves of the Ministry of Defense itself. These former military towns may be converted into homes for military personnel, but they're just stupidly scrutinized, as is done in my native Zaporozhye. And the last. Once on the Internet, I remember on live television, a man was talking about how paratroopers were throwing money at kerosene to get up into the sky, to jump, because only then did he have the right to wear a beret. It's not normal. But, colleagues, in this way, the bill will not go to GDP because 1 percent of GDP is financed by Germany and Canada. It goes, we have a closed circle, it's about our GDP, it's nowhere.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-12-m0.u144	Question completed. Dear colleagues, it's a pity that all those who speak speak speak the correct thought are absolutely correct, but no one has looked into the bill. And the bill simply says that 2 percent of GDP should be given to the Armed Forces. And they talked about everything and everything. I am voting on the proposal for adoption as a basis in the first reading of the bill amending the Ukrainian Armed Forces Act. [[5422]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:24:33]] For-103 The bill was rejected. The factions, please. The Party of the Regions – 4, "BUT - "The Fatherland" – 68, "Our Ukraine – The People's Self-Defense" – 28, the Communists – 0, the People's Party – 1, the non-fractional – 2, There is a suggestion to send for further work by the authors. I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:25:20]] For a-117. Overruled. There are no motives, read the Rules. A draft law on the Ukrainian Institute of National Memory is under consideration. [[Registration number 6272]] There's a proposal for a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[13:25:51]] For 186 Thank you. Offer supported. Please, School Andrew. Get ready for Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-12-m0.u145	Dear fellow national MPs, honourable chairman, distinguished our voters, who have the opportunity to observe what is happening in the sessional Hall of the Supreme Council! I would like to outline the substance of the bill very briefly because, I think, it is worth drawing attention to the fact that in Ukraine today’s power has been destroyed, in fact, the Institute of National Memory was destroyed because its latest order, Yanukovich, had essentially completed the liquidation of the national policy of Ukraine’s national memory. In Poland, in many, hundreds of countries, there are institutions of national memory that not only protect but also develop such concepts as national monuments, national memories, victims of Ukrainians or other nations that have the right institutions, at least in the last hundred years. Today’s Ukrainian state does not need this. We've assigned a man far without agreeing with anyone. Therefore, the purpose of the bill is to have the head of the Institute of Memory be released from office of the Ministers in agreement with the Supreme Council and appointed by agreement with the Supreme Council. At least then the Supreme Council should be involved in this process. Of course, the law had been written before, and time had passed. In fact, the Institute of National Memory was abolished, and a well - known defender of the national interests of the Ukraine of Mr. Soldatenk was appointed. You all know, this is a political prisoner, this is a man who's been through a lot of stages of building the Ukrainian state, this person is known to everyone in this room, all of them. Really? I don't think anyone will. Everyone's gonna confirm what I said. This is a hardened, hardened patriot of Ukraine who is ready for a lot of rotten sausage to build a Ukrainian state. That's why I'd like to emphasize. I said the point of the bill. The Supreme Council needs to be included in the process.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-12-m0.u146	Thank you. Please sit down because you need to talk about the bill. The previous director did not go to Solovakia either. Please, Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-12-m0.u147	Dear voters! Not only does the state start with economics, but it is true that a strong nation, a normal nation with a future, begins to strengthen, systematize its national memory. The fate of us Ukrainians, I say it politically, not in the ethnic sense of this understanding, has been so often written by foreigners. Very often, even our own writings are dictated by someone else. That's why our story, unfortunately, isn't systematized, it's twisted, and very often national heroes who would really be an icon in another nation, we either have anathema, or we've written them down to bandits there and so on. Because of this, of course, Ukraine needs such an institution. We need an institution that, at a professional high level, not just on a political level, but on a historical level, would work on a historical basis, a normal systemized Ukrainian history, with a normal view of events, with a normal assessment of these events, with a normal view of the personnel that were historical, and should say everything about them: and good, and if bad, we need to know and not well, but to tell the truth about our history. And this motivation really led to the creation in 2006 of the Cabinet of Ministers, then, by the way, I want to remind you that not Yulja Timoshenko was even the head of the government and not Yanukovich, but Yehanurov was the institution of the National Memory Institute. I don't want to exaggerate his merit. He is headed by Yukhnowsky – a great man, Ukrainian, non-conflict, wise, academic, a real academic, not a blind man like Tobacco, there or there. This institute has taken a huge step in order to systematize, let's say, this page of our Holocaust in Ukraine. By the way, after the famine, the center of patriotism moved on.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-12-m0.u148	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-12-m0.u149	And before that, he was, of course, in the east of Ukraine. That's why Andrey School and I -- and the committee supported that very thought -- prepared such a bill. I'm a long way from being absolutely perfect, because time is changing. But since we are talking about the destruction of the Institute of National Memory itself today, we have entered into such a bill, and we are well aware that there, on the left hand side, there may be no one who will vote for it. May this be your disgrace.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-12-m0.u150	Let's sign up for the performance. Please, Zebravsky Paul.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-12-m0.u151	Here some boast that they are the “Soviet people”. In the people, they just call it "saws." This mentality is "save," and it remains with some of the former governors who have been there for so long. Because of this “evans who do not remember kinship, ” they were never valued worldwide. Whoever we are of national origin, whether Russians or Poles or others, we are Ukrainians. When we go to Russia, we "want" for them, even if we are Romanians of origin. As a result, it is necessary to realize that, besides Ukraine, no one needs Ukraine. We need to learn, improve, and understand our history, having a national memory: both from Tripoli and Kozachchina, including as we lived with the Soviet Union. We need to understand, understand, appreciate, and remember all of this. One of the presidents of one nation, who remembers his history very much, and tracks and protects us, has recommended that we forget our history at all so that we may be transshipped. If you and I are cross - country, then, my friends, we will never become independent states proud of the fact that we are living on such a beneficial land as Ukraine is. Because of this, there is actually parliamentary control, it's really your influence on who they're assigning, or Mr. Soldatenka, a former politician, as they say here, or someone else. But we'll listen, we'll listen to this man. And she loves her country, loves her land, loves her history, appreciates it, is ready to remember it, is ready to be prepared for her offspring or not? And if you're just pushing yourself away today, that's a right, you're just, I'm sorry, some people who are even themselves.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-12-m0.u152	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-12-m0.u153	I'm just calling, to vote for this law, because we're actually Ukrainian and we're a proud nation! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-12-m0.u154	Stoyan is passing on to Kiselov, please follow him – Pavlovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-12-m0.u155	Honorable colleagues, when there's talk in this room about the institution being destroyed or falling down, it's not true. And I would like to say in this context that unfortunately, the days of opposition are used by the opposition to probably make laws for which, firstly, it doesn't vote, we see: one hundred and Lithuania helped, and two hundred of them. So secondly, they don't even report their laws. And if they report, they don't actually report, they talk about anything, but they don't. Moreover, honourable colleagues, I would like to take your attention in essence to this bill, and it is proposed that the central authority of the executive branch should be given its status at the very beginning, and the fourth paragraph of article 6 is proposed: the decision of the Institute is required for the execution of all executive organs and all executive bodies. How? That's cool, isn't it? [[B in m in s a l in]] Next. Article 3, paragraph 20, suggests the right to make proposals to ensure the elimination of the symbols of the former Soviet Union. What does this talk about? Nothing else, and just read about it, just to destroy society. Dear colleagues, you can't do that. And when I suggested in October 2007, let's talk about the questions that are breaking Ukraine today, and I talked about it -- both Russian and NATO, and UN-OPA -- to take the quotes, to work on what unites Ukraine, not what divides it. This is a question that we consider today, which disentangles Ukraine, which is intended to disturb, or perhaps to say that, you see, the proposals offered by the opposition do not go away. I propose to reject this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-12-m0.u156	Pavlovsky. Please, Kirilenka is passing on to Viacheslav. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-12-m0.u157	Viacheslav Kirilenko, Party for Ukraine! Thank you, Mr. Andrew Pavlovski, for the word and opportunity to speak. I was at the source of the creation of the Ukrainian Institute of National Memory when I was working in the government, and in order to comply with the decree of the previous President, the Government actually adopted a decree establishing the Ukrainian Institute of National Memory as the central body of executive power with special status. But then, basically, we asked our opponents many times, "Listen, what does he do to have such a high status?" Well, it's an endlessly long discussion, but I want to say, perhaps briefly, but with a pretension of exhaustion. Dear colleagues, well, in order for all of us to understand that Ukraine is not Russia, not Poland, not Romania, not Slovakia, not Hungary, but only Ukraine, and here we have, and will be Ukrainians, citizens of that state, and we must pursue the right state policy. And to implement this policy was called the Ukrainian Institute of National Memory, which has now been successfully destroyed by the new government, because its functions have been passed on to the Ministry of Culture, means its actual elimination. Three million 900,000 to honor the memory that is now in this ministry’s budget is a drop in the sea that will not allow anything to be resolved. Moreover, the policy of destroying Ukraine’s national memory continues. On January 22, will President Janukovic welcome the Day of Assembly of Ukrainians? I don't know, maybe it will, or maybe it won't. But the Museum of the Ukrainian People’s Republic, which was located in the premises of the former Central Council, is now the Teacher’s House, and it has already closed because the Ukrainian Institute of National Memory has been shut down. And the other memorials began -- from the London prison, Lviv, to the Memorial in Bykown, which is also the subject of the National Memory Institute. So we see that this is about completely objective things. And we have to stop this anti-Ukrainian attack, and we have to support this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-12-m0.u158	Please, Zybenko, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-12-m0.u159	Thank you. Communist faction, Peter Cibenko, head of the Ukrainian Veterans Organization. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to say that this bill was a bill that we've been running around in the Hall of the Supreme Council, fortunately, with the past orange regime. Dear colleagues who initiated the adoption of this draft law had a wonderful opportunity for you to adopt the law at your own time. You didn't do it. They were thought to have come forever, and by this position of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine regarding the Institute of National Memory, you will rule forever. That's the first one. It's different. If you look at this bill from a legal point of view. In fact, what we're offered. As the draft law contains, considers, is devoted to regulating the status of only one of the specially named central executive bodies, in fact Parliament is proposed in the form of a law to approve the position of this body, that is to say, to act in accordance with article 116 of the Constitution of Ukraine provided for or conferred by the Cabinet of Ministers. So that's what this is all about. It's different. We've all read the President's decree on the reorganization of the central executive bodies and we know about the decisions that are being made with regard to this institution. And there's one more thing we can't help but talk about. The Ukrainian Veterans’ Council repeatedly asked questions about the liquidation of the institution over the four years of the Institute of National Memory. Because, in fact, he's turned into the Institute of National Memorylessness. At the expense of taxpayers, the history of the people of several generations, all that was created by our grandparents and our parents, has been disgraced. So I am absolutely convinced that this bill cannot be supported in the conference room.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-12-m0.u160	The discussion is over, the procedure is shortened, so everything is under the Rules. The only thing you do as you prepare for the vote is not good enough for a member of the Supreme Council to use information you do not know. No one at the Institute's Ministry of Culture transmits, by order of the President of the Institute of National Memory is transferred or created as a research institution at the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Today, as far as I know, the Cabinet of Ministers has confirmed the position of this institution. And one more thing. Around all these disputes, the messages are closed by someone, someone is blocking someone, and they're not responding to reality. All institutions that have been and are part of the National Memory Institute within the National Memory Institute remain and will be financed. Today, too, an appropriate decision has been made in the Cabinet of Ministers. I'm voting on Bill 6272, draft Ukrainian Institute of National Memory Act. I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:41:48]] For 113 Not supported. The bill was rejected. The factions, please. The Party of Regions is 1, "BUT - "Patkaščina" is 70, "Our Ukraine - National Self-Defense" is 39, communists, National Party is zero, non-factional is 3. Dear colleagues! We should now consider the draft Act on the introduction of "The Use of Nuclear Energy and Radiation Security" into the Ukrainian Law. [[3320]] And the next 3323, the committee is asking to postpone the consideration of these bills. I'm voting on a motion to postpone Bill 3320. On the amendment of the Ukrainian Law on the Use of Nuclear Energy and Radiation Security. Please vote. [[13:42:55]] For 230 Move. And this is also the proposal to transpose bill number 3323 of the draft Act amending the laws of Ukraine on the combined production of heat and electricity and the use of reduced energy potential and on the priority directions of innovation in Ukraine. [[on the promotion of cogeneration technologies]] Please vote. [[13:43:26]] For 245 Offer supported. The bill has been transposed. We have Natalia Juryovna Královska, Bill 7064, and she's also asking to move the draft Act amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts. [[on standardisation and mandatory certification]] Please vote. Please take off the vote. Ephraim’s microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-12-m0.u161	I'd like to know what's going on with us. We all know that we have an opposition agenda Wednesday. If they approach the agenda scrupulously, why are we passing the third draft? For that matter, let someone give an explanation.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-12-m0.u162	I think the explanation is very simple. Further consultations are needed to ensure that the bill receives support. I'm voting on a motion to transpose Bill No. 7064. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:44:51]] For 254 A bill has been passed. Although Alexander Sergiyovich is absolutely right here, everyone is trying to get his bill to a logical conclusion. Thus, when you know that there are no votes, they look for the possibility of a transfer. The draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the National Council of Ukraine on Television and Broadcasting is under consideration. [[on the lifting of age limits for candidates to be a member of the Board and on the clarification of individual provisions]] Registration number 4454. There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. Please be supportive. [[13:45:48.]] For 196 Offer supported. Pavlenko Viktorovich. Please, Bondarenko Olena Anatolyevna from the committee. Landik, please, from the committee. As long as the reporter goes. Now, look, your honorary colleagues, there's actually an opportunity to report, stand up for their idea, half of the bills nobody wants to report. It's just a game of legislation. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-12-m0.u163	Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! At its meeting on 31 March 2010, the Committee considered this bill and the majority of the votes cast by the opposition deputies decided to recommend to the Supreme Council that the bill be supported and adopted on the basis of the first reading. At the same time, the Chief Science Export Authority believes that the current mechanism for regulating the legal status of members of Nacrada, which is based on a set of State Service Laws, on the National Council of Ukraine for Television and Radio is more effective. And it recommends rejecting the bill. I want to support the decision of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration and propose that this bill be rejected. Can I explain why? Today, the members of the National Council are firstly members of the first category, which have extended the provisions of the Ukrainian State Service Act, with differences in the legal regulation of such or other matters as provided for in the Ukrainian National Council for Television and Broadcasting Act. Article 23 of the State Service Act, which also extends to members of the National Council, sets a limit age for women to be in the public service for 60 years — for men, 50 years. If necessary, the head of the public authority, in agreement with the Chief of State Service at the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, may extend the term of service but not more than five years. This bill proposes that such regulation be made for individual categories of civil servants to leave. In our view, this standard is discriminatory with regard to other civil servants who should retire at the age of 60. And the second right over here is the position proposed by the author, foresaw.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-12-m0.u164	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-12-m0.u165	The consolidation of the Nacradu Law, according to which the list of requirements for a candidate for the position of the Nacradu is exhaustive. This will either result in gaps in the legal status of Nacrada’s members as civil servants. So I support the conclusion of the expert board that this bill should be rejected. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-12-m0.u166	Thank you. Is there a need to discuss?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-12-m0.u167	I am voting on the proposal for adoption as a basis for the first reading of a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on the National Council of Ukraine on Television and Broadcasting. [[4454]] I'd like to make a statement. [[13:49:38]] For two. The bill was rejected. A draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine is under consideration. [[on the cessation of the abuse of the right of the National Council of Ukraine to television and radio]] [[Registration number 6512]] There's a proposal for a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[13:50:10]] For 175 Copy that. Jacinek's got to report. Now. Who's from the committee? Yes, Landik, please report. Efrem's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-12-m0.u168	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. I would like to address my colleagues, Adam Ivanovich, and still get an answer. We are not simply moving bills that should have been formed by opposition representatives today in our consideration of the issues, but we do not have those who should have submitted these bills in the Hall. There are no committee leaders who should work in this direction. Is that a challenge to the Supreme Council? Is that just how you feel about your work? What's going on anyway? Can someone give an answer or not? Or is it just a cocky attitude to your work?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-12-m0.u169	I'm not ruling out that they're in the doppelgangers right now. Please, Landik.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-12-m0.u170	The honourable chairman, honourable national deputies, the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information at its meeting on 15 September 2010, reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine on the Elimination of the Abuse of the Right of the National Council of Ukraine on Television, Radio Communication by the National Deputy Yatsenuk, and decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the results of the first reading to reject the bill. The bill proposed by you provides for amendments to Ukraine's Nacrad laws on television and radio broadcasting, the Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure. The drafter proposes that criminal responsibility should be established for violating the legislative requirements for the approval of the National Council and for knowingly unlawful decisions of the courts based on the position of the National Council, the composition of which is valid. It is suggested that the composition of the Nakrad be not 6 people who are authorized by law, but 7 or more. But the law everywhere says that six and that's legal. Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this law was written as lobbyist at a time when the court, in principle, decided to select frequencies in Twi and in the “5 channel”, i.e. to decide what was adopted by six votes, which is illegal. That is how they will be returned, but it has been proved by the court, but it has been suspended and returned to the State by the courts, that is, one of the lobbyist laws that is certainly not acceptable. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-12-m0.u171	Thank you. Dear fellows, so the Rabbit can understand, he says. Dear colleagues, I think it's clear. In fact, there must have been a law written under emotion, a situation like this, let's vote. Please sign up. I want to talk to you. Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-12-m0.u172	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, the question that Arsenius Petrovich Yatzenuk was trying to settle here is not as simple as it seems. And it's not just the TVs and the "5 channel," which is essentially the censoring, just because of the official body. National Council on Television and Radio. The issue is that it is forbidden to broadcast and the network is taken into the Radio Melody. At first, fate was required, and now they are working through the Nakrad. Because of this there is a very serious in this act of insinuation, which is obviously not seen on the committee right now. This is about authority and what can be done in the presence of an illegal council, and this has been the case during the past year, remember. It was totally illegal. And then, when it's illegal, whether it's able to represent in court, or make statements in court, it's someone and members of the board of directors who don't have a collegiate decision. This was the reason why it was suggested that the Criminal Code of Ukraine should be amended, including the addition of article 171 with a prim badge. That's what changed the criminal process to do it in parallel. And what I'm saying is that this notion of power, it's extremely, very important in such a sensitive area as radio, television, and freedom of the media. This freedom narrows down every day, and you see it all over the TV. You'll see it soon and you'll see it in a political so-called talk show. That's why we have to adopt this bill, we have to.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-12-m0.u173	School, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-12-m0.u174	Dear National Deputies! Dear Chairman! Dear viewers, voters, of course I'm also surprised where the author of this bill is. And I believe that the Supreme Council, I accept criticism, too. Because the Supreme Council has to work. No matter what. If it works in a normal functional mode, then all the authors of the laws, of course, have to report them here, from the rostrum. But those authorized by the committee accordingly should also be, not for them here, if Mr. Landik were to work here, so that he should be given a separate thank you. But essentially the law. I, by the way, also think that it was written under an event that took place in Ukraine. But the event was unbiased. You know, for the first time in the last six years, let's say that this word was directly pressed against the media by getting their licenses for the benefit of another. That would be good. Some reference to the activities of these television companies. TV is also meant for "5 channel". If there were any comments about the substance of the question, it would simply be desirable to take it away from one another and pass it on to others. Remember, it was Inter. So it's not an average event. And of course, this bill didn't solve the problem, but it got her attention, and it's attracting her now. Because we know what the solution would be if we put it to a vote in the Supreme Council now, or if we were to support TV and the 5 channel, or not. Of course, the Supreme Council would vote by its majority in favour of the Inter, which serves the interests of today's authorities. Although he would serve the interests of the audience and be independent, he would have to ensure equal access to the media of all political forces. But that is not the case. So, I know it shouldn't be like that, but the problems in Ukraine weren't us, so get them out of the way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-12-m0.u175	Please continue for 15 minutes. Stoyan.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-12-m0.u176	I'd like the cameras to show this right-hand side where there should be an opposition today that has its day and that had the opportunity to express all the questions that they wanted to hear and carry out. But they're gone. They're not interested in parliamentary work. One question they asked was how to protect thieves in the law who were in power, who stole millions, hundreds of millions of dollars, and now they say they are political repressions against them. From this morning on, we heard a presentation. The general prosecutor, who showed no politics, was on the facts that those people were doing, that they were in power. I couldn't protect them, I couldn't protect them politically, they left the room. I want to continue with what my colleague Ephraim said: Today is a long day. If you said you weren't going to make laws, or you were going to make laws, or you weren't going to protect them, report them, we could make dozens of laws, very important social laws, economic laws. And we could consider these questions today. And we're listening to you, and there's nobody to report. Arseny Yatzenuk came out, who appeared once a year when the snow would fall, and said, "I'm passing the law, but I'm going to go, I'm better off sweeping the courtyards or cleaning the snow." He must have gone to Chernobyl to clean up the snow. Well, man got a job, let him clean the snow. But you're in Parliament, so if you're making laws, if you're offering them, go, stand up. Well, we won't accept them, we won't agree with you, but that's your position, that's your opinion, stand up for yourself. And today neither the author of the law nor the coauthor, nor even for your laws, are you voting. So please, Adam Ivanovich, next time, if Wednesday comes along, agree with the opposition, agree that if they make laws, if they do, put them in, if not, give them alternative laws, because the Supreme Council can't work so unproductively. With regard to this law. I support my colleague Landik. This lobbyist law does not need to be maintained. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-12-m0.u177	Question completed. I am voting on a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation, Bill 6512. I'd like to make up my mind. [[2:01:07]] For-39 Not supported. The bill was rejected. We are considering a draft of the Law on Complementing an Article. [[B in m in s a l in]] I went on for 15 minutes. Draft Law on Supplements to Article 37 of the Law on Physical Culture and Sports. [[Registration number 5337]] There's a proposal for a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[14:01:44]] For-198 Offer supported. Please, Suslov Evgeny Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-12-m0.u178	Good afternoon, dear fellows! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Family, Youth Policy, Sport and Tourism discussed at its meeting on 12 May 2010 the draft Law on Supplementing Article 40 of the Law on Physical Culture and Sport, submitted by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Sousloem Eugene, is me. [[on the insurance of contestants]] [[Registration number 5137]] The aim of the draft law is to improve the legal regulation of insurance for athletes and other participants in sports competitions. The goal is that there have been repeated appeals to the committee, especially from parents about competitions, sports competitions in Ukraine, and the law does not regulate the life insurance of these children. The purpose of this bill is to settle this issue, because the Physical Culture and Sports Act regulates the life insurance of athletes who go to a higher category, there is the first league. Article 40 is also proposed in this law to read: “The life and health of participants in sports competitions are subject to compulsory insurance. The order of life and health of participants, athletes of these competitions, insurance, respectively, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine.” The committee supported this bill, and I also propose to support it in the first reading, because there really is this problem, and we can resolve it. The second reading, if any, is because the federations have begun to draw their attention to those who will compensate for these insurance issues. We can work this out. But I ask you to support this bill, because it really is the health of athletes, the health of our children. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-12-m0.u179	Thank you. Have a seat. Shall we discuss it? Yeah, besides Carmazin, who else wants to talk about it? None. Then Carmazin, please, two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-12-m0.u180	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! I support the need to vote in favour of this bill in the first reading. In view of the fact that there have been repeated incidents, including death at such races. And that's why when we passed the law that came into force a few days ago, the new version of the Physical Culture and Sports Act, and part of it, two of them wrote that only upper-class athletes are subject to compulsory insurance, we didn't understand, obviously, that much more risk is being and is being subjected to all the other contestants. And the addition of article 140 of the Law on Physical Culture and Sport, which is now proposed by fellow Suslov, to the sentence that “the life and health of participants in sports competitions are subject to compulsory insurance; the order of insurance and insurance are determined by the government, the Cabinet of Ministers,” is absolutely safe, and it will protect people's lives and be able to compensate for these losses if they are incurred or treated. I would like to say separately that once again, as in the past, we see the conclusion of the Scientific and Experimental Authority, which says, "We believe that the question of further improvement of compulsory insurance is more appropriate to be resolved by supplementing the new article." New or in this article. What's the significance of the workload of this conclusion of the Science and Technology Administration? None! Because of this, the law has to be passed, it is needed today for tens of thousands of children and people who are athletes who are taking part in the competition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-12-m0.u181	Thank you. Dear colleagues, indeed, the initiative is quite right, but. But let's think about it if we take out who's going to pay for the insurance. It's not said. Who Will Reparate? It's not said. The Cabin will develop an order in which it says that if you want to participate in a competition, you have to pay the insurance amount, and that insurance will go to private insurance companies. That is how this law can end. So it's a good idea, but it has to be implemented. But it has to be done specifically. Yes, I would like to vote on the adoption as the basis of the draft Law on the Complementation of Article 37 of the Law on Physical Culture and Sports. [[Registration number 5137]] It's not as simple as you say. [[14:07:28]] For the 250. Adopted in the first reading. But once again, dear colleagues, if you don't make specifics, the Cabinet of Ministers will write that every athlete will pay you for himself. Then they will thank you. The only thanks are those companies that will receive money from these athletes. That's the point. A draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine on granting partial unemployment assistance is under consideration. Please, from the Committee Dry Jaroslav Mikhailovich. There's an offer: a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[14:08:20]] For-182 Offer supported. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-12-m0.u182	Dear colleagues, we are dealing with such a colossal situation when, in connection with the termination of Kabminu’s powers, bills have been revoked, so the bill remains. There were 2 bills: 5491 and 5491-1. [[Cabminian]] [[Colleagues Andrija Vilenovich Sánchenka]] In view of the fact that the bill had been revoked by the Cabinet in connection with the termination of powers, the Committee on Social Policy and Labour had once again returned to the Sandchenk bill and had made such a decision: in view of the fact that the bill was aimed at stabilising the work of the Foundation for Stately Compulsory Social Insurance in the event of unemployment, as the government and the government were talking about, and the convening, both this and the opposition and the authorities, the Committee on Social Policy generally supported the bill. Because the protection of workers who are part-time unemployed and the preservation of the human potential of businesses are still valid today. At the same time, respected colleagues are talking about partial unemployment. Partial unemployment introduces a new term, such as “simply on production”, the concept is: “this”, “the closed-circuit sector”, a rule of law is excluded that restricted the provision of partial unemployment assistance to workers who refused suitable work in a lower enterprise and so on. Short. Today, we have a situation where both agricultural production and engineering, especially where we need high-powered personnel, are underworked. The man's a perp. She's out there. prefers to stay at the Employment Center and thus solve some other problems instead of going to the job she is offered, or retraining and so forth. In view of the fact that a number of industrial enterprises are in a separate production cycle and it is simple, fellow Sánchenko rightly proposes to introduce a term such as “before labour law” and thus to bring this issue to normal. If we don't support him in the first reading, let's at least send him to work. That's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-12-m0.u183	Thank you. Thank you. There is a proposal: to vote and support, in the first reading, the bill of colleague Senchenka 5491-1, the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the granting of partial unemployment assistance. Please vote. [[14:11:13]] For 109 There was an offer: To be sent for processing. Please support this proposal. [[14:11:35]] For 296 The bill is designed to be redrafted. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, dear fellows, let's do Bill 7071, the authors are asking for a transfer. We have yet to include in the agenda a draft decree marking the 170th anniversary of the birth of an outstanding Ukrainian writer, a publicist, a historian, a public official, Michael Petrovich Dragomanov. Registration number 7178. Please vote. [[14:12:20]] For 284 The Position in the agenda is enabled. The draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the establishment of living minimum and minimum wage is included in the agenda. [[Registration number 7458]] I'd like to make a statement. [[14:12:51]] For 113 Not turned on. So please include in the agenda of Bill 7452, establishing a moratorium on some measures of State oversight in the field of economic activity. I'd like to make a statement. [[14:13:26]] For-63 Not supported. The inclusion in the agenda of Bill 7453, on certain issues of the administration of single and fixed taxes. I'd like to make a statement. [[14:13:54]] For-63 Not supported, not included. And the inclusion in the agenda of the bill amending article 26-1 of the Ukrainian Road Traffic Act, registration number 7448. I'd like to make a statement. [[14:14:22]] For-93 Not turned on. Dear colleagues, we have invested in our time. The morning meeting of the Supreme Council is closed. I would like to remind you that at 3 p.m. we will have parliamentary hearings on "The state and prospects of hydrocarbon production in Ukraine and the introduction of a state monopoly on this activity".
