ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. Let's register. [[16:01:44]] There are 378 National Deputies cards registered in the session hall. For example, I would like to remind you that we need to register at the registration desks, because, you know, from Wednesday on the Supreme Council website, there's information about our registrations at the registration desks. We are continuing our consideration of question number 7024 — the draft Law on the Provision of Commercial Accounting for Natural Gas. Mikolo Prokopovich, please go to the rostrum. We stopped with you and passed the 31st amendment. Yes, please, next 32nd, Carmazin. 16: 2:28
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u2	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! In the first reading, I emphasize that this is about the 4th article where the changes are made, the first reading, where the list of natural gas users and the calculation of natural gas consumption are listed, is what they have, they got, that's the 34th position of first reading, they've got the right licenses and licenses to do the work, and they've got the means of accounting for natural gas consumption. It is suggested in the third part of the first part of article 4 that the word "and license" should be deleted. I don't think that's appropriate, given these situations that have now taken place in a number of Ukrainian cities. And that's why I'd like to be explained, first of all, to have a question to the committee representative, whether permission is fully secured.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u3	No special accounting permissions are required. And only a special permit is required to do construction and assembly work in the gas industry. And this is a separate activity, so you don't need permission.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u4	Yeah, well, that's why we take the license, that's important and dangerous sometimes, isn't it? Have we taken any other laws, Xenia Mikhailno? They took it, didn't they? Right. We're simplifying everything now. I'm putting on the 32nd amendment for confirmation. I'd like to make up my mind. [[16:04:30]] For 180. The first line is left. Yeah, 33 too? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u5	Thirty-three. Yuri Carmazin. I'd like to explain what they were doing when they changed the first reading. This is what article 5 says about the responsibility of natural gas consumers, consumers themselves. The point I'm talking about is that from here quietly, as in the 20th amendment, we're relieved of the responsibility of those natural gas operators, and we're just left with those who distribute natural gas. Since we've already solved this issue in the 20th and the following amendments, I think Adam Ivanovich would want to leave the first reading here. So the 33th amendment doesn't count, considering that Kabmin offered a better one.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u6	Please have the committee's opinion.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u7	The committee rejected the amendment because. The committee rejected the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u8	Yeah, 33rd Amendment. The committee counted it. There's a denial. I'll bet you a receipt, please. [[16:06:26]] For 196 Not confirmed. There's only one left. Yeah, 36th. Bogdan doesn't insist. 37th. No, it's not. Jojik, 38th.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u9	Jaroslav Jojik, Ukrainian People's Party. The amendment again refers to a reduction in the time limit for the mandatory introduction of commercial gas accounting counters. Once again, the problem in this case is, not primarily in technical capabilities, but in political will, to stop the annual theft of billions of dollars in the gas field. Obviously, until all private consumers are able to produce counters, they will continue to burn the gas of national consumption per capita and actually supply it to commercial enterprises, receiving a multibillion - dollar price difference in their pockets. It may be possible to slightly shift the term for six months, but the government proposes to extend the term until 2018, which is unacceptable for real energy conservation, and then for the energy independence of the Ukrainian State. That's why I'm asking you to support me.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u10	Dear colleagues, according to operational data, such consumers are equipped with counters of only 25 percent. It's not possible to do these jobs in less than two years. So it's technically impossible to do that. Correction rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u11	Yes, I'll put 38 to the vote. [[16:08:26]] Z-11. Not supported. Yes. 42nd, Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u12	No, 40 more.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u13	By 40?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u14	Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u15	40th, Jojik, accounted for.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u16	Partially counted, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u17	Please, 40s, Jojik.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u18	Jaroslav Jojik, Ukrainian People's Party. You can only partially agree with the committee, but in this case there are two problems. The first is the deadline set out in the bill, April 1, 2011. I'm pointing out that today is April 7th, so it's totally inappropriate to point to April 1st. The second is the very logic of our correction. The fact is that it is necessary to grant gas suppliers the right to automatically cease to supply gas to consumers who refuse to install gas counters. Because if the gas supplier has to follow a formal procedure in a court whose final decision can wait a year or more, the consumer will have the right to consume gas without control. Therefore, our proposal provided for the granting of natural gas suppliers the right to terminate the contract in a nonderogable manner.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u19	You're right in this case, but the committee's board of experts only took part in your amendment. Unfortunately, this is a decision, a college decision for committee experts.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u20	Yeah, 40 votes. I'd like to make a statement. [[16:10:23]] For the four of us. Not supported. 42nd, Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u21	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, this article 5 I propose to present in such an editorial. Responsibilities of operators First, the operators are obliged, I stress, to ensure that gas counters are installed for the population living in apartments and private houses where gas is used, first, comprehensively, especially for heating, by 1 October 2011, secondly, for heating water and cooking - by 1 January 2016, thirdly for cooking only - by 1 January 2018, fourthly for other consumers - by 1 October 2011. In the second part, I propose that we write: “Considers who are listed in the first part are obliged to stop supplying or distributing natural gas to consumers who use natural gas without its commercial calculation if consumers are refused, as indicated in paragraph 1 of this article, to allow operators to set up gas counters at their own expense”, and so on.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u22	Ladies and gentlemen, the committee decided to include articles 5 and 6 in the drafting of the legislative initiative, by separately amending Article 5 the number 33, 34, 35 and 39, and 41.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u23	42nd vote. [[16:12:08]] For the 15th. Not supported. Let's move on. 47th, 8th, Bogdan doesn't insist. Yeah, which one? 43? It's counted. 43, please, Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u24	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! Let's do the same thing. Subject, submission, the Cabinet of Ministers proposed to write in article 6: “Obligations and responsibilities of natural gas operators on a regulated tariff or distribution basis”. That's what the purpose of the adoption of the law was, I take it. This amendment excludes the supply of natural gas and is excluded at a regulated rate. Well, there's only a distribution left. So I'm asking you to put this amendment in support and I'm asking you not to support it by leaving the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u25	The 43rd amendment is counted by the committee. There is the author of the legislative initiative. Please, if you would like to comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u26	The author of the Romanyuk legislative initiative is your amendment. She wasn't there in the first reading. I'm voting on 43 amendments. I'd like to make up my mind. [[16:13:51]] For 1 So, honourable colleagues, so that we don't waste time with you, we've voted for the fifth or sixth time to remove the word "supply." Everywhere the word "sufficient" is deleted, we think it should stay the way it is in the first reading. Do you have a deal? So that we don't waste any more time, because there's still one. For example, the 44th is like that. So we don't go back to them.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u27	Where?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u28	No, the 44th: "the subjects of the management that make the distribution of natural gas in the respective territory are obliged. " And again, we're going to leave, "what does supply and regulation do." Ah, instead of the word "tariff." 44 is on the vote for confirmation, I understand. I'd like to make up my mind. [[16:14:58]] For 199 Yes, the first reading remains. 47th, Bogdan doesn't insist. 48th, the same. Yes, Bogdan, 53rd. Jojik, 55th.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u29	Jaroslav Jojik, Ukrainian People's Party. Dear colleagues, I would like to stress once again that the extension of the deadlines for the introduction of the law by five or seven years means that no one will really do anything but wait for the end of the term, this term. And that means that we're really giving you the opportunity to really extend the duration of the dissipation of government funds. So once again, I stress that the lines should be as short as possible, this requires an extraordinary situation in the gas field, in the energy field, with the energy security of our nation. Once again, I ask and appeal to the majority to support this proposal and to stop the dissipation of the money that is going on in the gas field today.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u30	Ladies and gentlemen, according to operational data, the population needs to be set to about 5 million counters for this category. You realize that it's technically impossible to do this in two years. So your amendment is rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u31	The 55th Amendment shall be voted upon. [[16:16:49]] For the five of us. Not supported. By 50, there's a note. Please, Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u32	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Adam Ivanovich! I'd like you to pay attention to the first reading. The second paragraph reads: "Stop the supply and distribution of natural gas to consumers who use natural gas without its commercial calculation if such consumers refuse to install counters." [[or]] This 50th amendment suggests the word "supply and" -- that's what we've come to -- that we can't do that. [[or]]
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u33	Yuri Anatolyovich, I'm sorry. We've already agreed that everywhere the word "supply" is taken. We have already voted unequivocally that everywhere, to avoid voting, we have made a decision with you that wherever the word "supply" is taken, it returns to the text so that it does not vote. I've already stressed that, and I'm focusing once again on the final edition. So we don't have to go back to the vote, we're already on it. Next Jojika, '60s.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u34	Jaroslav Jojik, Ukrainian People's Party. Once again, I stress the state of emergency that we have today in the gas field and with the energy security of our country. And this extraordinary situation requires extraordinary action from the government. And seeing the position of the government, including the Ukrainian population. Indeed, it is extremely difficult in a year or a year and a half to install such a huge number of counters. But we have to realize that if we can't do it over this period. set this number of counters, we can then make a decision for a certain period of time to continue implementing these counters, but putting them into effect after 7 years, that means not adopting the law essentially. That's what it means to do. create the impression that they want to do something and really do nothing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u35	The 60th vote is on the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[16:19:21]] For-12. Not supported. And we have. What's that? [[B in m in s a l in]] 61st? Yes, please, the 61st amendment is about voting for confirmation. I'd like to make a statement. [[16:19:56]] For 206 The first reading is left. 63rd Amendment. Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u36	Yuri Carmazin. I propose in the 63rd Amendment of Article 6 and the entire article that we put out in this article, "The Accountability of Natural Gas Suppliers and Consumers." It is to never tell Mikola Janovich Azarov that the opposition does not offer a way out. We're offering a way out. But you're not going to listen, and that's why we're now making laws like this out of wheels: we're registering today, and we're bringing them in today. "The National Commission on Electricity Control of Ukraine. First. It applies to gas - consuming operators who have established metering machines for commercial gas accounting provided for by the legislation of sanctions, warnings, fines, and cancellation of business licenses. The other one. For having been involved in the activities of the operators of the infringements provided for in this Law, it shall issue within the limits of its powers on the basis of an act of verification." And so on by the text." "Decision on imposing a fine. Third. The other one. Complaints about fines are made in court. The sums of fines collected are included in the State Budget of Ukraine. " And there's more.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u37	63 is voting. I'd like to make a statement. [[16:21:29]] For the 17th. Not supported. Yes, there are no other amendments. So, your honorary colleagues, given that I'm stressing once again for the final editorial that we're everywhere where the word "supply gas" was taken, we're returning it to all the articles and taking into account those amendments that have been supported or not supported, I'm putting forward a proposal for a second-reading committee and, as a whole, a bill under number 7024 on the provision of commercial accounting for natural gas. [[16:22:21]] For 232 Thank you, the law has been passed.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u38	Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u39	By factions, please: The Party of Regions – 178, "The Fatherland" – did not vote, "Our Ukraine" – 10, the Communists – did not vote, "The Reforms" – 17, the People's Party – 20, non-fractional – 7. Dear colleagues, since we have a lot of agenda issues today, and you can see that the order of the day with you and I have 16 hours to go over the issues listed there, I propose that we build our next work in this way, based on the fact that we are now obliged to put a dot on the anticorruption bill. That's why I'm offering to do this today. Now we're going to look at the issues that we're predicting at 16 hours, namely the Bills: 8294, 8295, 8121, 8354, 8308, 8324, 8224, 8274. Then we'll go back to our second reading of Bills 7176, 7516 and the anti-corruption policy in Ukraine -- 7487. And that's where he'll show his life. Who's to work this way and not finish the job until we finish working on a bill to prevent and combat corruption in Ukraine, please vote. [[16:24:22]] For 244 Let's move on to reality. The draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on simplifying the procedure for the start-up of businesses is under consideration. [[Registration number 8294]] There's a proposal for a reduced procedure. Please be supportive. [[16:24:54]] For 214 Supported. First Deputy Head of the State Committee on Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship, Yacushina Galina Mikolayovna Please, you have two minutes. Get ready for King's Landing.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u40	Honorable National Deputies, Your Honors! The project proposes to provide the same starting conditions for initiating business in Ukraine by operators. At present, these conditions are different for different forms of organization and also require a great deal of documentation to be submitted for the creation of a legal person, and they need to be notarized. The bill proposes to introduce the possibility for the founders of legal persons, in addition to shareholders, to establish statutory funds in the size and composition they need to start their own business. At the same time, the bill minimizes the cost of the founder’s own resources at the time of the creation of legal persons when temporary accounts are opened. The draft law also simplifies the requirements that are currently in force for mandatory notarial presentation of individual documents. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u41	Thank you. I don't understand what happened. Are you done? Have a seat, please. Royal Natalia Yuriovna, head of the Committee on Industrial, Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u42	Dear colleagues! Dear Adam Ivanovich! We propose to your attention a draft law amending some Ukrainian legislation on simplifying the establishment of an enterprise, 8294. The purpose of the bill, set by the authors, is to simplify and optimize the procedures for the establishment of legal entities in different legal forms and to ensure the same starting conditions for starting a business for all business entities. You know that in existing legislation the legal rules governing the establishment of enterprises are overburdened by conflicting requirements. In particular, the various requirements for the size of the statutory fund, the timing of the introduction of the statutory fund, particularly the problems faced by enterprises when the minimum wage rate is established and the rate is changed. You also know that founders have to spend an uncertain amount of time setting up a business. This law is sufficiently technical and its main objective is to improve the "Duing Business" rating of the World Bank. But this law will not really affect the improvement of the internal climate, the business climate, in Ukraine. Therefore, from a technical point of view, the Committee considers it necessary to support it, and there are several rules that are relevant enough, and we will further develop them for second reading. But in general, the title is louder than the very contents of this bill, in this direction we need to work more, and here we need to listen to Adam Ivanovich, who says, prepare a system document once, and we will consider it. Unfortunately, it's not a system document, but it's not harmful. It therefore invites the Committee to adopt it as a basis and to further elaborate on second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u43	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Thanks for the support and understanding of the proposal, it would really be good. Shall we discuss it? None. In addition to Kseniya Llapina, please for two minutes, please use the microphone or on the rostrum as you wish.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u44	Thank you, Your Honor. Xenia Lapina, Party "For Ukraine!".. I want to point out that this bill really works in principle: it won't do much harm, but it won't do much good. We continue to improve what is good in Ukraine. It is possible to register a business in Ukraine today, virtually in a day, in the extreme case of mail, in three days. In fact, the very act of registration today does not raise much interest in business. They call attention to the receipt of certificates, licenses, other conciliations, other procedures that this bill has no relation to them. This bill improves, improves, and is to be accepted. However, it improves the quality of the work. It's still reducing statutory capital. Although today's minimum statutory capital is roughly equal to $100. So this is absolutely not burdensome to create an enterprise. The useful thing is that it's a refusal to give a notary testimony because today it's an unnecessary procedure, but it's also not very burdensome. And it's just that I really would like to pay attention by supporting this bill, that we really need to pay attention to things that have a much more significant impact on business climate, namely tax administration, the administration of the permit system and the administration of state control. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u45	Thank you. Question completed. I propose support in the first reading of the draft amendment bill to some Ukrainian legislation on simplifying the process of initiating entrepreneurship. [[Registration number 8294]] Please vote. [[16:31:17]] For 271 The bill was passed. We are considering a draft Act amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts to simplify the procedures for the cessation of legal persons and natural persons who are entrepreneurs. [[Registration number 8295]] There's a proposal for a reduced procedure. Please be supportive. [[16:31:50]] For 221 Supported. Please, Jácišina Galina Mikolayevna, the first deputy head of the Committee on Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship. Get ready for King's Landing.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u46	Dear National Deputies! This bill is the second in a package to simplify procedures where business is initiated and terminated. This bill is designed by the State Enterprise to carry out the mandate of the Cabinet of Ministers and aimed at simplifying the procedure for the cessation of legal persons. Today, according to Ukraine’s Single Register, 1 million 275,000 legal persons. They're inactive and they're not doing their job and they're not reporting any kind of report, they're almost 45 percent. And they all have to potentially go through the termination procedure. At the same time, in the first half of 2010, less than one percent of these enterprises were cut off because of a very difficult procedure. So our bill proposes to reduce the number of such procedures, reduce their duration and reduce the cost of spending them. The bill provides for a reduction in the number of documents to be submitted for the start and completion of the termination procedure: from 2 to 1 for the start of the procedure, from 7 to 5 for the completion of the procedure and from 4 to 3 for the completion of the procedure by the physical person of the enterprise accordingly. The deadline for the entry by the State registrar of the relevant register of terminations from three days today to one day. The time that the initiators can set for creditors to declare their claims: within 6 months for legal persons, and within 3 months for natural persons, entrepreneurs. Today, there is no limit to such a time. It is also the time frame for each creditor to decide whether or not to make a decision on its claim within 15-30 days of its receipt. Today, there is no limit to such a term. As well as the time during which creditors may make an appeal to the court for failure to determine the endowment entities for a period of one month. Today, such a term is limited by the completion of the termination procedure. It is also proposed to reduce the cost of cancelling the payment for the publication of the report, economy 17.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u47	Finish up, please. Yes, thank you. Royal Natalia Yuriovna, head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u48	Dear colleagues, dear Adam Ivanovich! You are invited to consider a draft law amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the simplification of the procedure for the cessation of legal persons and individuals of business. Bill No. 8295. It should be commended and noted that, unlike the previous law, this law is indeed systemic and will be useful enough if it is adopted to put an end to the business process. As you know, now it's time for the closure of enterprises, much more than the opening line. And today, the closure of enterprises is a new type of corruption activity that is primarily used by the tax administration. Checks are blocked, business liquidation is delayed and people have been forced to walk for months, carry papers and ask for bribes only to eliminate them. Those who do not have the nerve to quit, businesses to hang in registers, and do nothing. We no longer have statistics, but we have only the facts of a completely non-profit-making approach to business. Therefore, in the bill, one of the main novelties is the keeping of the principle of tacit consent at the closing of the business. When an enterprise can notify that it is being closed, all documents shall be provided. And in the event that the check is not carried out and there is no justification for the tax, for which reason the check has not been carried out, or for what is today an obstacle to the enterprise, the undertaking shall be automatically eliminated within six months. This is a necessary norm that will allow us to impose a little bit of our tax on the liquidation of enterprises in a responsible manner today. I also believe that the law should be added.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u49	Finish it, Natalia Yuriovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u50	Add responsibility to officials who are blocking the liquidation of enterprises today. And the principle of a single window, which is also introduced here, is a useful norm that allows businesses in one place to submit all documents and get results. Neither did the principle of the cancellation of the audit and the lifting of the mandatory certificate of notaryus and the assurances of the notary. This will cost between 10,000 and 50,000 dollars to liquidate businesses. It's the right rules. Both the Committee and I personally believe that this bill must be supported. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u51	Thank you, Natalia Yuriovno. Yeah, is there going to be a discussion? Sign up. Yes, please, Smitsch. Behind him is Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u52	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! Finally, there is a specific government bill to our entrepreneurs, which simplifies, greatly simplifies the process of closing businesses. Because to this day or to the adoption of this law, I think we're going to take it as a basis today, and we're going to work together to further simplify the closing procedure. And that number of businesses that are waiting for closure today, or that number of enterprises that are waiting to get away from those entrepreneurs, because it's harder to throw it away, than to shut it down, because it's expensive, it's a lot harder and more. And in the end, it's going to end, you know, "walking through the torments" of those entrepreneurs that we have in Ukraine, unfortunately, not much. So I call on my colleagues to support this bill and to get involved in the second reading of amendments so that as much as possible, given the wishes of entrepreneurs that we are constantly communicating with as a result of our parliamentary activities, in order to make it easier for them to do so clearly, to make such arrangements, to predict that when they are easily opened, they should be so easy and closed. Of course, it is necessary to provide for such measures as to avoid artificial closure, or artificial bankruptcy, or liability, in enterprises that have some kind of debt, one way or another. So I propose to support this bill and to get involved in its work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u53	Thank you. Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u54	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I pay attention to Mrs. Queen. You know, I love and respect you very much, but to report this law, I'm sure you don't have another committee. And I'll tell you why. Since this law amends the Civil Code, consider, please, not just that, but that of the cessation of legal activity. And I want to tell you that when we adopted this Civil Code here, this law is to guide, that is, the Civil Code, and the Council of Europe, and everywhere. And here we're waving a checket like Kabmin can do, and then how it's going to pass through non-profile committees. Here we are making changes to the Code of Masters, but it is a terrible fact that we have already gone to the Administrative Code. That's right. I mean, Adam Ivanovich, we have a breach of the committee's substantive work. Why? I'm reacting to change to 166 with the "6" badge. What, so good are we to entrepreneurs who are closing in on thousands of people today? What does the government offer them? Worsened situation, increased fines twice! In the Code of Administration you write, 166 with badge 6 only in the first part. What about the other one? And the third? Think about it and look at it. And please, we need to be very careful about such things. And increase the functions and powers of the state tax administration, 234 with the badge 2. I deliberately named the names so that they could have the right to a replica. I'm calling him on purpose. And I would like the Legal Political Committee to make a statement about this, Mishchenko. And so that we can have the changes discussed on those committees that are obliged to consider it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u55	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. I think, given your love and respect for Royal, you'll help her deal with legal issues. I don't see any problems here. Not on the committee. It's gonna be okay. I'm voting, I'm voting on a proposal for adoption as a basis in the first reading of Bill 8295, the draft Act amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts to simplify the procedures for the cessation of legal persons and natural persons. Please vote. [[16:42:34]] For 317 This is the result of the confessions made by Yuri Anatoliovich. We are considering the issue of 8121, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2011. [[on the granting of State budget subsidies to local budgets to cover the difference in tariffs on thermal energy]] There's a proposal for a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[16:43:18]] For 215 Supported. The author of the bill and from the committee is Melnik Petrover Volodymyrovich. You have four minutes and no more seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u56	Dear National Deputies! Peter Melnik, Party of Regions. As regards the granting of a State budget subsidy to local budgets to pay off debts with a difference in tariffs on heat. The bill is aimed at resolving the issue, at paying off the debt that arose from the difference in tariffs for thermal energy. At present, the situation, according to thermal power companies, remains virtually critical. According to operational data, the debt of consumers for the 2010 - 2011 natural gas consumption on March 11, let's say this year is almost 10 billion, or 9 billion, 937 million dollars. This includes nearly 5 billion dollars in 2011 alone. And the current calculation rate is about 41 percent. This situation is virtually impossible both to conduct timely and full-scale accounts of Naftogaz Ukrainian National Shareholders with a supplier of imported natural gas under the terms of the contract; and to carry out full-scale tax obligations on the company. In doing so, the existence and accumulation of the reported debt of thermal power companies for the natural gas consumed is largely due to the unliquidated debt incurred by the heat - energy companies in different tariffs for thermal energy and hot water services. According to operational data received from district government administrations, during January-February this year the confirmed amount of debt from the difference in tariffs on heat energy continues to increase, due to an increase in the price of natural gas for the needs of municipal heating and the inadequacy of tariffs on heat-based energy costs for its production. The adoption of this bill is provided for in the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for 2011 and expenditure from the State budget for the financing of subsidies to local budgets to cover differences in tariffs and heat energy, and which will, of course, provide enterprises with heat sources to pay off the debt for natural gas consumed. Geography is virtually all regions of Ukraine. I think that the adoption of this law is absolutely necessary, and it will allow, of course, local budgets to make payments to heat-generating companies, thus improving their capacity to pay. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u57	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Shall we discuss it? Let's sign up. There's the government's conclusions, the government's in favour. Now we're going to ask the first deputy minister. Garbage, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u58	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! I took the floor on this bill, and I want to express my view that housing and utilities in our country today came to such a hand that every year we have to look at everything, increase everything, increase subsidies in order to maintain a viable balance between generating companies and suppliers, and with consumers. And I have a strange question. Or we must carry out this reform once and for all. And not to say that someone pays, someone doesn't pay. Because we have a population category capable of paying and in good faith to meet our obligations to the supplier. There is a category that can pay, but does not pay on purpose, waiting for the need or cancellation of that debt on the part of the State. And there is certainly a category of few protected people who are unable to pay. But let us take a look at the part of these payments related to heating companies. You know we have 22 billion cubic metres of gas in Ukraine. [[Plus-minus]] And this gas is definitely ours. Our Constitution of Article 13 should go to the population. The cost of this gas is very low. Very low. And for some reason, we're channeling these funds from the State Budget instead of being hospitals, schools, roads, and so on, we're forced to pay the generating companies. Who's got the generating companies, what difference does it make? And you know that these generating companies aren't that bad these days, they're just the ones that we're dealing with, they're kind of profitable all over the world. And I have a question. On the one hand, cheap resources of national importance, on the other hand, almost global prices for utility services, and this difference arises. And where does that difference go? And this difference goes to these same generating companies that are private. And the increasing demand for Ukraine to increase the cost of these services is not entirely fair to me.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u59	Thank you. Have a seat, please. I'm sorry, I'm gonna follow the rules, because we have, you see, and football today. Goodima, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u60	Dear colleagues! Dear Chairman! Gudima, faction of "The Timoshenko Yulia Block - "The Fatherland". To be honest, I don't understand the meaning of my speech when the bill's author is the Cabinet of Ministers, and my predecessor has criticized the bill, and he doesn't understand the content of its adoption. Naturally, as a representative of the opposition, I no longer understand. But let's take care of the terms. The drafters of the bill are not going to cheat anything, as the generating companies were said to be. These are different things. It's about budget subsidies to local self-governing organizations. It's about the Heatcommunergo. But my predecessor, the first to report on behalf of the Cabinet of Ministers, although the bill's author is a national MP, said an interesting phrase: "Indebt has reached a critical limit and continues to grow." If we adopt today’s law, what will change? By the end of the year, I assure you, the same debt will increase to ten billion and nothing will change. The answer is one, without a profound, radical reform of housing and utilities, putting your hands into the budget to help someone, is completely pointless. We need to realize today that when we speak statistics, it's not true that all the population and all the heatcommunergo alike owe the budget and NAC Naftogazu. Six areas that are now dominant in the Party of Regions – Donetsk, Lugansk, Zaporizka, Dnipropetrovska and the city of Kiev, which are under the control of Kiev, which belongs to your party, owed 70 percent of the total debt. That's who you want.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u61	Thank you. Carmazine, Carmazine. I've announced it, I've announced it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u62	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I thank the distinguished national deputy of Gudima, who has put it in the root of his eyes. Twenty-four billion debt, what's it called for? No, it's not. It's completely artificial, we burn our own gas only on our own companies. Obviously, the question is different. In this government, in the Attorney General's Office, the whole Ukrainian people have this question, and it has to stand: these companies have to be returned to the people of Ukraine. They'll be back. There won't be any of these schemes going on all the time. And it's not going to happen that the back number is going to raise prices for gas, and then the cities are kind of in debt. No one owed anyone anything. The Ukrainians don't blame anyone, everything else is in a completely different pocket and in other offshores that you, Mr. Azarov, don't want to stop. And he doesn't want to stop it today and your party, because today your patron is going to take you and release you and send you for a shinella, where you're sending others. That's why I think it's a very small and weak drug. As for the decision-making procedure, honourable national MPs, you have the conclusion of the scientific and expert management that you need an expert opinion from the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, not just the Minfina letter, but the conclusion of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the completeness and reliability of the data presented in the expert budget statement. This requires a second article. Article 8 of the Ukrainian Budget Code, and we don't give it up, we don't have it under consideration today. As a result, by adopting this law, let us reach these conclusions so that they are acceptable to us.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u63	Thank you, the discussion is over. I think here are the right questions, comments and suggestions on the conclusions of the Cabinet of Ministers, so I would like to ask the first Deputy Minister of Finance, Anatoly Ivanovich Merkovsky, to answer these questions, and you, dear colleagues, to pay attention. Please, Anatoly Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u64	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! The Cabinet of Ministers and the Ministry of Finance support changes to the budget in order to address the issue of differences in tariffs on the thermal energy used by the heat utility to realize its population. This difference was established in 2010, and it is related to the fact that tariffs were not increased to heat for the population on January 1, 2010. That's why the government is taking steps to resolve this issue and thus remove the debt burden from NAC Naftogaz Ukraine. Today, at a meeting of the Committee on Budgets, this issue has been discussed again, taking into account the decision of the Committee on April 7, 2011, which increased the amount of inter-accounting from 2.4 billion to 3.6 billion dollars. The Ministry of Finance proposes to adopt this bill as a whole and to amend it accordingly, as the figures have changed, the changes to article 1.2 of Appendix 1.2. 3, as well as the chapter on the taking of effect of this law, and appropriate editorial and technical legal clarifications. It's all in the committee's decision. So our proposal is to vote on this bill, taking into account the clarifications that are presented in the materials in line with the decision of the Committee on Budgets.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u65	Dear colleagues! There's no order, no questions asked. Dear colleagues! Once again, you have just heard what you just asked: where are the conclusions of the government? Let's put it bluntly, it's basically a government bill, but to expedite its consideration, the proposed procedure for the initiative to be a national deputy is then they pass faster, because the Kabmin is going to be gathering while the papers are being drawn up and so on, and the question is burning because you understand that this difference is needed, we're not giving the heatenergo, we're giving the local authorities grants to places. So, given the presentation of the First Deputy Minister of Finance, I would like to vote in favour of Law 8121, on the amendment of the Law on the State Budget for 2011, taking into account the fact that it takes effect the day after the publication and taking into account the figures that Merkovsky said and the conclusions that are contained in the Committee's proposals. [[on the granting of State budget subsidies with local budgets to cover the difference in tariffs and heat]] Please vote. [[16:58:26]] For 261 Thank you. The law is passed. The draft Law amending sub-paragraph 215 is under consideration. 3.4, para. 215. Article 215 of the Ukrainian Tax Code. [[concerning petroleum products]] There's a proposal for a reduced procedure. Please vote. And what if he changes the code? It's not a code. That's just one change. [[16:59:03]] For 215 Supported. Report to the Deputy Minister of Energy and Coal Industry, Czech Sergey Mihajlovich, please. Get ready, Homutinik.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u66	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! Ukraine’s amendment to the Tax Code has been drafted, taking into account the sharp rise in oil prices in world markets caused by political instability in North Africa and the corresponding increase in oil products in the domestic market. The bill provides for a temporary adjustment of excise tax on petroleum products to reduce the prices of motor fuels on a fragmented network for consumers to reduce the impact on Ukraine's socio-economic development, increase the price of oil in world markets and improve the state of the world's oil products by ensuring the needs of domestic consumers, including farmers during the field work period. The adoption of the bill will allow lower prices for motor fuels in the wholesale and fragmented segments, which will have a positive impact on the social situation of all without the exception of Ukrainian consumers, slow down inflation processes, reduce transport costs for virtually all domestic products. The reduction in excise duty rates for the specified group of petroleum products will result in a lower price growth in the retail network on the backdrop of oil production on the world market and will contribute to a reduction in the cost of domestic production services, which will increase their competitiveness in the Ukrainian and world markets. The adoption of the bill will reduce the impact on the world. rising prices in world markets. The bill does not provide for expenditure from the State Budget. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u67	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Head of the Committee on Finance and Banking, Tax and Customs Policy Homutinnik Vitaly Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u68	Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! The talker shows the main positions of the project. This is about reducing excise duties on fuel-oil materials from 182 euros per thousand kilograms to 132 euros per petrol and diesel fuel, respectively, from 90, 69, 62 and 42 euros, depending on the sulphur content, to 60, 39, 32 and 22 euros respectively. So 30 euros per position 20 euros per tonne of fuel. At the position of the authors, or the Cabinet of Ministers, it will allow the price to be stabilized in the fuel-oil market. However, after reviewing the draft law, the committee was actually forced to remake it and re-edit it, a new version of the draft by the committee. That's what it means. The bill does not clearly indicate how many of these reduced rates will work. And we suggested, by agreeing again with the government, that these reduced rates be effective for 3 months, or until 31 July 2011. Also, given that this is going to be limited in terms of reduced rates, we have proposed to move these positions from the II section of the Tax Code, which is responsible for the issue of excise duty to the Transitional Regulations, which is chapter XX. And they wrote the same bets accordingly.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u69	Finish up, Vitaly Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u70	The same bets, the same positions that were offered by the government. In addition, the committee proposed that there should be such an opportunity to accept the amendments to the Tax Code. We have proposed to resolve, at the same time, the issue of excise matter, the issue of monthly submission of tax returns on the income of natural persons. So this is such a painful question that in a few months, and the committee recommended another bill, 8217, to resolve this issue by canceling the monthly deposit of the declaration, to convert it into quarterly yield. And also zero balances, if there are zero balances, also cancel out, even quarterly yield. That is, if a person does not collect taxes, there is no point in this person to go to tax and, accordingly, to waste his time and time on taxpayers. So that's the question that we've decided at the same time to solve, and we've proposed in this edition under registration number 8355, which we've been working with in the committee. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u71	Thank you, Vitaly Yuriovich. Have a seat, please. If you'd like to make a statement, please sign up. Korz, the BUT faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u72	Who? Teryohin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u73	Dear colleagues, good evening! This project is supported essentially. I remind you that at this rostrum, when the Tax Code was adopted, the BUT faction voted against the raising of excise duties on oil and oil materials, because everyone knew that their value would increase on the world market. Now you know what's going on, so let's say yes, the fuel will increase in price and so on. But there's a few questions, one question, if we were to reduce by 50 copies per 95, how much is it going to cost? At the committee meeting today, Mr. Merkowski said it would be 9.50, but we all know how to count. In the structure of the price of gasoline on a pistol, the excise duty is 16.48 percent. With this tax, 95 is worth about 9.85 in the middle of Ukraine. After the decline planned today, the share of excise duty will fall to 11.53 percent, 1.53 percent. And you know how much it's going to cost? 8 bracelets 10 copies, if you reduce what's declared by this law. So in keeping with the price declared by the government at 9.5 instead of the economically justified price of 8.1 importers or dealers will receive an additional income of 1.4 billion dollars in the three months for which this experiment is proposed. The second question is what happens when the buyers refuse to lower prices.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u74	Thank you, sit down, please. Garbage is passed on to Hell.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u75	Hell-bent, a faction of regions. Dear colleagues! I believe that the adoption of this bill is logical as a result of the President's address today, where it has been clearly and clearly stated, and that the one who wishes to hear it could have heard that the power is bound to respond to all the challenges of society, to all that affect the interests of the people. Therefore, in this case, it is absolutely logical, indeed, to lower the price as much as possible, to keep the price at least within the limits of the price in force. We therefore very much hope that this bill will be supported, and I think that it is not the last in the chain of such bills. I beg your pardon.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u76	Thank you. Karmazin Yuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u77	Yuri Carmazin. Dear People's Deputies, I'll start at the end, now most of them have admitted that they see another mistake that's rude, brutal, committed against the Ukrainian people and not one at the time of the adoption of the Tax Code. And thank you, Vitalia Homutinik, and if he doesn't remember, I have a question for him that I came here and said, don't do it, confirm it, tell him why you disobeyed Carmazin, you disobeyed him, you didn't even understand what it was about, that people were being sought out, that people were being bullied, you created the problem, and now heroes, you're supposed to be dealing with it. And now I'd like to ask you, well, I'm willing to vote for this part, but for the other part, it hurts a lot, I don't know how to vote for what. I'm being set up with inconsequential fuels, absolutely inconsequential, those oligarchs who bought our home factories, who were obliged to adjust them before 2001, with all the governments during that time, they agreed, they all gave them concessions. And today, we're offering to create conditions for them to continue to supply us with inadequacy fuel, and the competition in this market has declined, and we've provided them with a lot of income, respectable, and for what it's for. That's why this issue has to be solved in a completely different way, and we have to return what they bought for three cents in state ownership, this is a strategic issue and a national security issue. For this law, although there is a positive thing, I won't vote, you made it, you take responsibility for another. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u78	Yes, Yuri Anatolyovich, we must correct mistakes.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u79	Your mistakes, you admit?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u80	We need to make amends. Goodima, one minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u81	Goodima, Fatherland block. Ladies and gentlemen, consider what the first reporter said. This law will help to reduce the price of gasoline. The other says he'll let us stabilize. The third says it will help reduce the rate of growth. This law will take a billion out of the budget, but it's not about it. Maybe it will actually slow down, but those who listen to us want to ask, where are the 3 billion who have been stolen by Livela, gentlemen of honor? Did you use those possibilities to take away 3 billion? The other one. And there's 3 million and a half tons of Ukrainian oil that doesn't work in the market today as a stabilizer. Of course, in an emergency order, it can be accepted; in principle, it does not play anything. Because you have to look at the root when they're massively stealing Ukrainian oil today, when they're introducing billions of dollars without a tax.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u82	Thank you. Alexander Mikolaiovich, after all, you agree that for at least a period of time it must be. Yes, please, Merkowski, the position of the Ministry of Finance. Anatoly Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u83	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national MPs, is a government bill and clearly we support it. Ask him to support him in general, taking into account the decision of the committee that was given to you and what was reported by the committee head Homutinnik Vitaly Juryovich. So I only have one request to consider it and to accept it promptly as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u84	Yes, dear colleagues, Terhochin 1, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u85	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich, in principle, the warnings have been made. Well, I just talked to Mr. Merkowski, and he says it's the political will of today to accept this project and not transfer it to tomorrow, to the second reading. Let's do this, no problem, the only problem. Mr. Merkowski, Mr. Homutinnik, I would like you to confirm that we have taken not only the "d" part of all the "plums" declarations that are taxed on the income of the natural person, but the "b" part. I mean, if you don't have any income and nothing to report on, then you don't have to file a declaration, this decision was made by Mr. Azar last week, let's write it in the law, the decision of Azar last week against the law. But.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u86	The thought is clear. Anatoly Ivanovich, please stand.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u87	Dear National Deputies! The point is, on the committee today, we discussed this issue and there was a committee decision that was reflected in the text. Now out of voice, I understand that in principle we have nothing against this idea, but how do you spell out that the norm is not written? So if there's a delegation of the committee and the Supreme Council's apparatus, such a proposal, we're going to support it, but there's no standards for today's textual day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u88	Well, then, respectable colleagues, according to the results. The faction has made four appearances, you will be the fifth person, this violation of all that may have been allowed, please sit down. Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues! In the light of the issues under discussion, I am voting on the adoption of Law 8355-d, with the commission of a committee of profile to prepare it for signing, to take into account the position expressed by my colleague Teryochinim. Please vote. [[17:16:17]] For – 285 Thank you, the law has been passed. Once again, given Teryochin's offer, just so that his editorial, legal and chief legal department, the Ministry of Finance, the committee of profile, will fit that rule. I remind you once again that, aside from the 30-50 euro drop in excise duty, we've completed a standard that makes the lives of entrepreneurs much easier. You've all screamed at me to do it, but today we have a unique opportunity to do it. And thank you for all your support, not all of you, unfortunately, but most of you have supported this bill. We are considering the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2011. [[Registration number 8354]] This is related to the law that we have just passed. There's a proposal for a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[17:17:24]] For the 220. Supported. Please, Merkovsky Anatoly Ivanovich, get ready for Melnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u89	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national MPs, the bill 8354 on amendments to the State Budget Act 2011 is proposed for your consideration. The world’s economic situation requires a rapid response to today’s challenges, one of which is the rise in world oil prices, which are leading to rising oil prices. To reduce the negative impact of this factor on the economy of the state and citizens, the price stability of oil products, the government has proposed two bills, one of which you just adopted today. This involves reducing excise duty on petrol and motor and diesel fuels. As a result, the revenues of the special fund used to finance the road economy will be reduced. The total reduction is about 1 billion dollars, in order to compensate for the loss of a special fund from reduced excise duty rates, it is proposed to increase or determine the source of the road fund's total budget for the same amount, i.e. by 1 billion dollars, in order not to allow the amount of road work planned in 2011. This has made it possible to increase the value added tax due to the revitalization of manufacturing and the increase in domestic demand for industrial production. It is also suggested that within the overall volume of the road fund, the expected extension of credit agreements will change by 2.7 billion dollars. And to redistribute these funds to increase the financing of the road economy by 1.8 billion dollars and to a subsidy from the state budget for construction and reconstruction by 0.9 billion dollars. The specified distribution is done within the general budget balance, so we have the total revenue of the state budget unchanged. Besides, we are.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u90	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u91	In addition, it is proposed that the 100 million dollars in the state budget be allocated to the district budget to provide more fully to the citizens of rapid health care, that is to say that we are increasing the cost of rapid medical assistance by 100 million. This will make it possible to increase the provision of appropriate services to citizens. And we also want to adjust the amount of income of the special fund in connection with the implementation by Ukraine of the Convention on the Prohibition of the Use, Stockpiling, Production and Transfer of Antipersonnel Mines, based on the Government of the Kingdom of Norway grant of $1 million. And so we're going to increase the cost of the disposal of conventional munitions. So we propose to support the adoption of this bill as a whole, taking into account the need to adjust the total budget volume, because we have adopted Bill 8121 before that. As well as a technical correction under Bill 8354 concerning the economic classification of expenditure of 100 million dollars. So we need to move them from the "Communication Services" to the "Transfers" line. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u92	Thank you, sit down, please. Melnik Peter Volodymyrovich from the profile committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u93	Honorable Adam Ivanovich, honourable colleagues, the Committee on Budget Questions today considered a bill amending the State Budget Act 2011 submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers, number 8354. The bill is designed to provide adequate financial support for network development and maintenance of public roads and roads. It is balanced in terms of the 2011 State Budget. And before that bill, the government's proposals for a temporary reduction in excise duty on petrol, motor and diesel fuel have already been discussed and supported. This will reduce the government’s special budget fund by a total of 1 billion dollars. In order to compensate for the loss of such revenue, which is the source of the road fund’s replenishment, the bill proposes to increase VAT revenue by 1 billion dollars. In addition, as a result of the longening of the duration of credit agreements and the corresponding economy of loan repayments*** under government guarantees for the development of a road network. The bill provides for a redistribution of Ukraine's assignments by reducing spending for these 2007 billion dollars. And the cost of network development is increasing by 0.8 billion dollars. But for subsidies to local budgets for construction, reconstruction, repair, and maintenance of streets and roads of municipal property in populated areas by 0.9 billion dollars. The bill also proposes that, instead of the budget programme "Communication of Public Services by Budget Institutions", additional funding be provided to local budgets to provide fuel stations with an emergency, rapid and immediate health care amounting to 100 billion dollars. However, the replacement of the budget program and the corresponding definition of a new target does not mistakenly exclude expenses. Communal services and energy services for 100 million dollars under this program and in the summary lines. It should also be noted that the Supreme Council has now reviewed and adopted the draft Law amending the State Budget Act 2011 on Grants to Local Budgets.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u94	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u95	The Committee on Budgetary Questions has adopted a decision to recommend to the Supreme Council a bill amending the State Budget 2011 Act, number 8354, to be adopted on a basis and in general, is a law, taking into account the following. In Appendix 2 of the bill "Communication Services and Energy Services" under codes 3511260, 3510000, 3511000 exclude the figures of 100 million and reduce the corresponding figures in the line. In view of the adoption of the previous subsidy bill to the local budgets under heading 8121, to entrust the Committee on Budget Issues, together with the Chief Legal Office and the Ministry of Finance, when preparing the bill at the signature of the Head of the Supreme Council, to introduce to the text of the law and Appendices the necessary editorial and technical clarifications in Article 1 and in additions, in particular, on the summary of the income and expenditure of the State budget to ensure the balance of the budgetary indicators in the final edition of this law. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u96	Dear colleagues, I think we're clear, yes. This law, directly related to the previous one, is lost in terms of the decline in excise duties, the revenue that is budgeted for road construction, another article, and another 100 million are added to medicine. I think we can take into account the committee's conclusions to support them. Then from the faction of "Our Ukraine," who will be speaking? Who's your senior now? Knyazevich, please identify who. Carpuque, please, one minute. Please, Karpuk, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u97	Vladimir Karpuk, "Our Ukraine". Of course, once we've adopted Bill 8354, we need to compensate the Road Fund for 1 billion, we agree, because there are big programs and we need to build. But I have a question, of course, I approve and support this proposal to provide an additional government budget grant to local fuel stations of emergency medical emergency services, because we have seen what happened since the beginning of the year when Feldscher funding stations and medical clinics transferred to the district budget, which resulted in several reductions in fuel costs. For example, if there was order per month for a car, even less than 100 dollars, it was quite catastrophic. But there's only one question, so it doesn't have to be the 8121 law, so it's distributed by region.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u98	Thank you. I mean, when these 100 million are allocated to be allocated in the regions. This bill has no relation to your committee. Royal of the faction, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u99	This is a gender inequality, Adam Ivanovich, and I will ask you to leave it outside of Parliament. Dear colleagues! We still want to know who's responsible for the tax code that was adopted in the country. We're wasting our time today, for what? Saving local budgets as a result of the adoption of the Tax Code, which has been destroyed. We are wasting our time today saving gas and petroleum prices, as a result of the adoption of the Tax Code, people are no longer on roads and cannot walk because there are no roads in the country. And today we're correcting the mistakes that power made six months ago. It's not a job, it's not a reform, it's an experiment that's put over the country, and now they're making everyone live on these experiments. What happened? They're operating live, no drugs, why is there no simplified system law, no law? The President's mandate, 1 April, must be accepted, no one fulfils. Where the law is that legal persons can work.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u100	Natalia Juryovna, no one is bothering you, I will only welcome gender equality if you make such bills. We'll take a good look. Taking into account the discussion of the issue, my honourable colleagues, I am voting on the proposal for the adoption of Law 8354 amending the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for 2011. Please vote. We're voting on the law. [[17:29:03]] For 263 The law is passed. We are considering a draft law amending the Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code regarding the participation of the national jury. [[Registration number 8308]] There is a motion for a reduced procedure, please vote. [[17:29:33]] For 211 Supported. Please, Vladimir Philipovich Philippeenko, two minutes to prepare for Sweden.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u101	Thank you. The Honourable Chairman, Your Honorary Colleagues, is proposing a draft Ukrainian Law amending the Criminal Procedural Law on the Participation of People's Congressmen. The need to adopt this bill is due to the fact that a valid Criminal Procedure Code was adopted 50 years ago, a large number of positions are hopelessly outdated, are ineffective and do not meet modern standards of criminal justice. One of the institutions that has lost its relevance is the Institute of Participation in the Consideration of Certain Categories of Criminal Matters of People’s Congresses, whose existence in practice is in fact causing considerable difficulties in the application of law. Today, participation in the national jury’s criminal proceedings is mandatory in the trial of the first criminal case, for which the law provides for the imposition of a sentence in the form of permanent deprivation of liberty. However, due to the lack of sufficient persons and, in fact, to the absence of persons in general who wish to perform the functions of the national jury, their involvement and further challenge to the court, ensuring their participation throughout the criminal proceedings has effectively become a problem for the judges themselves. Such a state of affairs leads to a decrease in the speed of justice, since judges are forced to postpone court proceedings that cannot begin without the participation of the national jury. In view of this, the bill submitted for your consideration proposes that the criminal proceedings currently taken by the national jury be conducted by a college composed of three professional judges. I believe that the removal of the need to involve the national jury in dealing with crimes for which the law provides for the imposition of penalties in the form of permanent deprivation of liberty will not lead to a deterioration in the quality of their consideration. Rather, it will contribute to an effective decision, since such cases will be handled exclusively by professional judges. Dear colleagues, I ask you to support this bill, in fact, to assist the courts of the first instance. Today, more than 600 courts are expected to help us. Thank you. Adam Ivanovich, I also ask if he will be accepted in the first reading, short lines for this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u102	Thank you, fine. Head of the Legislative Security and Law Enforcement Committee of Sweden, Viktor Dmitrovich Victor Dmitrovitch, you're invited to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u103	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues. The Legislative Security and Law Enforcement Committee did not consider the prescribed law. Since, at the time of his coming to the committee and for the time being, there is no conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration, the committee was not able to express its views on the bill. But it seems to me that a collegiate hearing is more objective and fair than a single hearing by a judge. So I think if we support this bill, it's the right thing to do.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u104	Yes, if you want to share in the discussion, write it down. Master Sergei, please follow him, Karpuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u105	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Sergey Vlasenko, Timoshenko Street. Dear colleagues, I would like to remind everyone here of the content of article 124 of the Constitution of Ukraine, which tells us that in the exercise of justice we have the right to accept the people and that he is directly involved in the exercise of justice through the national jury and the jury. This is a constitutional norm that clearly determines that we have jury and national jury in our courts. On what questions and on what categories of cases should national jurors be present in court? Of course, we could, on the one hand, ask them about pensions there, I don't know, about road accidents, about some other "hard," in quotes, questions. But it seems to me that the national jury as representatives of the people should have the opportunity. We have, by the way, removed the people from participating in the formation of the executive branch of power, trying to remove the people from the formation of the legislative branch of power. Let's take people away from taking part in the judiciary. It seems to me that this question is fundamental and that it should be systematically decided in that Law on the Judiciary and the Status of Judges, which was adopted by this Council in the summer of 2010. And to take that question out of context, to make, you know, look like it's not such a very principled question. It's a question of principle and it's conceptual. If we refuse to participate in the administration of justice, we must probably change the 124th article of the Constitution. If we do not refuse to do so, it is likely that it is impossible to clean up the public’s participation in criminal justice for the most complex crimes of the day. Once again, it's not a simple question and it's not a technical question. This is a conceptual issue that needs to be addressed in a normal way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u106	Please, Vladimir Karpuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u107	Vladimir Karpuk, "Our Ukraine", the Party of Fatherland Defenders, and I'm protecting the people's jurors from this day forward. The word of Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u108	Please, Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u109	Yuri Carmazin. Karpuk and I will express a common view that what is now being proposed is the deterioration of human rights, as provided for in article 22 of the Constitution. More specifically, it states that when new laws are passed or changes are made to existing laws, the content and scope of existing rights and freedoms cannot be narrowed. I'd like to draw the attention of those who haven't read this book, which is called the President's Annual Message. Please open the 12th page, there is the approval of the principles of republicanism and the expansion of public participation. So, republicanism, that's how it's written and expanded public participation, and now I'm going to quote most of this book all the time. So it says here that there is a civil society, how it should be treated. Today, the participation of the national jury, which is proposed to be removed, is to clean up the participation of the people who are directly involved in the exercise of justice on the basis of part four of article 124 of the Constitution, and that is the norm of direct action. Its execution in article 17 of the CPC provides that criminal cases of crimes under the law may be punishable in the form of permanent imprisonment, the first - instance judge shall be tried by a court of two judges and three national judges, who, in the exercise of justice, exercise all the rights of the judge. What makes such changes necessary today? I think that for one person to talk to the opposition when it comes to solving everything, one person, it's not even a trinity anymore. One person is going to make up his mind, so what have we done with this republicanism? Today, the President has spoken of something else, so I urge you not to do it, we've been looking at this project at the committee meeting, I was against it, a number of deputies were against it because.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u110	Finish up. Because.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u111	I would like to say that not only do we get involved in this article, but we predict that now a beloved citizen can say, "I want to be heard by the jury and the national jury, because I have this right at the moment of adoption and the Constitution." All of it. It's a dead end. This is the Constitutional Court. So I can assure you that this is an unconstitutional bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u112	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. The representatives of your faction are criticizing the President's message, you've taken up arms. You're doing the right thing. Criterion. Yes, please, Matthew from the faction, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u113	Thank you. Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! What do we do now when we consider such a bill? In fact, we want to put the last dot, removing our citizens from the administration of justice. Why would you do that? In our view, this is done to ensure that they are not hindered from making wrong decisions when these issues are resolved without them. And that's what we're doing when, according to sociological research, I think you all know very well, most of our citizens are overwhelmingly saying today: "We must choose the judges ourselves." So the judges have to be elected and accountable. That's why we can't support such a bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u114	Thank you. The discussion is over. I am voting on the proposal for adoption in the first reading of the draft Act amending the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine. [[on the participation of the national jury]] [[Registration number 8308]] Please vote. [[17:40:33]] For 228 Copy that. And, dear colleagues, there was an offer. [[B in m in s a l in]] It was the author's suggestion that we make a decision to shorten the deadline. I'm putting her to the vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, he has a right! And your right to be determined! I'll put it to the vote, and I'll put it in your hands. [[17:41:06]] For 212 212, that's 14 days. And you were yelling. The question is being considered. No, school supported me. The draft Law amending certain Ukrainian laws on State support for agricultural development is being considered. [[Registration number 8324]] There's an offer, with a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[17:41:43]] For 213 Supported. Gregory Mikolaiovich Kaletnik. He's both the author and the committee. You have four minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u115	Thank you. Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! Your attention is given to the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on State support for agricultural development. The bill will allow the issue of the sale of quotas for the export of individual products to be settled at the legislative level, in this case it is based on auctioned grain crops, it will increase the transparency and openness of the quota distribution process and, accordingly, the issue of licences, and it will also ensure that the State Budget is filled at the expense of the congregations for the purchase of quotas by the operators. At the same time, the draft law proposes to channel the funds received from auctions to the needs of an agri-industrial complex. In the face of a chronic deficit in budget support, these funds will ensure that important programs for the development of the plant sector are implemented. So the problem will be solved for the food security of our nation, for the effective functioning of the domestic grain market and for the tranquillity of our citizens, for the removal of social tension. I'd like to use time to get all of you back, and we've just been looking at a bill on fuel-oil materials, gasoline and diesel. I'd like to tell you right now that an agricultural complex that uses an average of 700,000 tons of diesel and more than 350,000 tons of petrol each year, has only increased these costs by one and the same amount of fuel seven times over the last six years. If 95 petrol and 30 diesel bracelets were purchased in 2004, this year you know the price, and in general the agro-industry complex has to increase its costs only on fuel-oil materials to 24 billion dollars per year. That is why today we have the opportunity to do so, while addressing two problems: transparency in the distribution of quotas for grain exports and aid to the agro-industrial complex. Interested ministries supported the bill with no notice and were invited to support it as a law as a whole. The committee also decided to support the bill and recommend it to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the basis and in view of the need for assistance to the agro-industry complex. I'd like a colleague to support his acceptance today as a whole. I ask you, fellow honourable Members, to support this bill, because agriculture has always played a very important role in the rural development sector to ensure livelihoods, the socio-economic development of the rural community, its further development is of paramount importance to the economic well-being of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention, ready to answer the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u116	Thank you. But they won't, because there's a reduced procedure. Yes, if you would like to participate in the discussion, please sign in. Smith, behind him is Sass.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u117	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! We considered this bill on our committee and accepted it to recommend that the Supreme Council accept it on the first reading. I'm arguing why this bill should be adopted. You know what's happened in recent years that we have monopolies owned by grain traders, monopolies owned by external markets. What does that mean? That out of the 14 large grain traders, only two are half-Ukrainian, and the rest are foreigners. So by buying grain in our market by providing some or other financial opportunities during harvesting, and, if last year, it was, on average, during the congregation, buying grain, it was, like, 800 plus-minus bracelets, right? By exporting abroad, they earn more than 200 percent of their income this year. And the price for today, as you know, has risen very significantly in the external market, and the trend is that according to the UN, this trend will be maintained because the food shortage is decreasing and the needs are increasing. So in order for the state to be able to regulate and in some way to introduce quotas, because the quota needs to be bought out, and this quota, accordingly, will be the difference between the purchase price and the export price, and it will actually go to the specific needs. But if it was the head of the committee saying that these costs should be aimed at supporting vegetation, I think it's inappropriate, because we have vegetation, the glory of God, more or less normal, and we have a lot of food to raise, including, meat, milk industry, not enough money to supply, and it's more expensive costs at. If we're looking at grain, it's one year's turn, and if we're looking at milk, it's only two years to feed a cow to get milk. So I would suggest that I adopt this bill in the first reading, and that I prepare for the second reading just the changes and then, by studying the questions on.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u118	Thank you. Sergey Sas, also an agrarian, is passing on to an equally important farmer. Ivan Grigorovich, please, Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u119	Thank you. I would like to address a respected author, whom I highly respect as, indeed, an outstanding agrarian. I think maybe a little bit of fabula and ideology says one thing, and that's the other thing. Dear friends! Quoting food resources, trading food resources here, exporting food resources is definitely deterrence and braking processes on the market. Every day, 500 or 700 dollars a year is lost. That's a loss. Next. Dear colleagues! Saving so much resources, tens of millions of tons on private elevators is once again an increase in self-sustainment, it's once again a loss to agriculture. Next. The sale of quotas, which is the essence of this law, is the sale of export quotas, which is once again an artificial and once again a fall in the income of agriculture. Experts have calculated, there is no relation to traders, experts have already counted the Ukrainian peasants from curbing the export of grain, artificial undercutting of domestic prices, resulting in the loss of 12-15 billion dollars. No quota sales, no budget support will cover it. There is a more civilized modern path. Three million dollars is needed by Ukraine to prevent any disturbance in the food market, the bread market. Three million tons to buy, everything else is free market. Don't we have private torture companies? Don't we have a private bakery? Don't we have private large birdhouses that use grain for feed for the production of the mini-food? Why do peasants have to drug them, and that's the question? Colleagues! Let's go back to the agricultural support law, which is where these modern standards are set. Of course, you do not vote on the law, but unfortunately it does not.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u120	Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u121	Thank you. Please give the floor to the national deputy Sergio Tereshuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u122	And that's the right thing to do. Please, Sergey Tereshuk, because he's closer to the ground.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u123	Thank you. Dear colleagues, on the one hand, welcome the efforts of the bill's author to make the grain market more transparent. Anyone who trades grain should have equal access. Because this year’s quota, on the one hand, may have played a positive role by holding back prices in the internal market, prices for cereal consumers, but it has played a negative role for those who produce products. It's springtime, we have to sow, and in the grain warehouses, a lot of the grain that we didn't sell didn't make any money to buy fuel-oil materials, everything is necessary. Therefore, it is very balanced to approach the grain market. It's not that easy for us to give our country new countries where we can sell products. We have to take into account other details. There should be no organization. If you enter quotas that you can buy freely, you have to do it quickly, because sometimes you can sell products, but you can lose that opportunity quickly. And finally, the last. Let's still be honest and say that if there's a quota and there's a quota to be paid, it's going to be a burden on the producers of grain products. There are no wonders in nature. There are world prices that determine whether or not. Exchanges and others. So the price is going to be less than the value of the quota. And then we accumulate it somewhere and we redistribute it to someone, but not to someone who produces the grain. Therefore, if we are to accept it, we need to make a more thorough revision of the bill in the first reading and in the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u124	Paul Ivanovich Zebrovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u125	Paul Zebravsky, "Ukrainian Platform". In honoring the colleague who passed this law, I very much hope that it is not his law, because an agrarian cannot pass such a law. It should be wise to do things the other way around. Look what they're offering. They're offering that some company, like Investbud. Is there a license today? Yes. 70 percent of us have some very interesting company, Investbud, licensed to export grain. 70 percent. A little bit of state-owned and some private companies called Ukrainians. What's going on? Of all the villagers, the price of grain will be reduced because there is a world price. At the world price, the company that buys the quota will invest in the cost, reduce the cost of the grain, make its profits, reduce the cost of the grain, and the producer will actually take the money away from it, and then it'll get some. Then it is wise to pass such a law. A more shameful law, as opposed to support, and in fact destruction of agrarian production, cannot be invented. Nowhere in any country in the world with a market economy, no one does quotas and licensing. It's a monopoly under defined structures, under defined companies that will certainly get rich. There will be no competition, there will be Newsbud, a company that monopolizes the entire market. And the agrarians won't get anything out of it. I apologize to those who spoke on the first reading, but there is nothing to support. This law does not need to be supported. Because it's going to destroy the agrarian business, destroy the grain market, and just so that some figures in Ukraine can make profits all over the village. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u126	Yes, before the vote one minute, she was saved, please, Kaletnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u127	Thank you. This is the moment I saved when I reported it. I want to thank everyone who has spoken. Because they're really people who know agriculture and they're hurting for it. But the only thing I want to tell you is that what you're talking about doesn't apply to this bill. This bill is not about quotas. The bill states that the Cabinet of Ministers' decree has already been adopted, and the quota has taken place. And today, 2 million tons of corn to be ordered by the Kabmin or distributed by a government official, which is a corrupt act, and you can put these 2 million tons in the lot to auction, sell, and put the money back into the agrarian complex. So this law is only for this situation, I want to tell you. Because the President said that in the future we would apply another mechanism, and this is not relevant to the harvest in 2011. That's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u128	Thank you. Dear agrarians, don't get excited, even in the spring. I am voting on adoption as a basis in the first reading of Bill 8324, the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on State support for agricultural development. Vote. [[17:56:21]] For 242 Supported. It was an offer to accept as a law as a whole. Oh, no? We are considering the issue, Registration No. 8224, the draft Act amending some of the legislation on the arrest of assets related to the financing of terrorism and relating to financial transactions suspended in accordance with the decision taken on the basis of the UN Security Council resolutions and the determination of the order of access to such assets. There is a motion for a reduced procedure, please vote. [[17:57:10]] For 214 Supported. Sergey Grigorovich Gurgy, head of the State Financial Monitoring Service. Get ready, Omelchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u129	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national MPs, your opinion is proposed by the draft Act amending certain legislation on the arrest of assets related to the financing of terrorism and relating to financial transactions, suspended according to a decision taken on the basis of a UN Security Council resolution, to determine the order of access to such assets. Honourable National Deputies, Ukraine, in accordance with the UN Statute as a member of the United Nations Organization, should ensure the implementation of the UN Security Council resolution on the freezing of Al-Qaida, the Taliban and other terrorist organizations' assets. In doing so, such a freeze should take place immediately for an indefinite period, that is, until a person is expelled from the UN list and on the basis of only Security Council resolutions. The bill provides a mechanism for such freezing. Yes, the Ukrainian Security Service has the right to appeal to a court to freeze terrorist assets -- this is provided for by amendments to the Ukrainian Security Service Act and the Ukrainian Terrorism Act. The Ukrainian Code of Administrative Judiciality establishes the procedure for dealing with such appeals by the courts. The Code is supplemented by a new article that defines the specificities of the imposition or removal of arrests on terrorist assets, namely, that the court’s ruling is taken no later than the following day from the date of the date of the application for the imposition or removal of arrest from terrorist assets. The order of the court shall be carried out immediately. Ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the comments of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration, it should be noted that in the vast majority they are of a contentious nature. The main conclusion of the scientific expertise is that, today, the procedure for the arrest of terrorist assets.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u130	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u131	In accordance with a decision taken on the basis of a UN resolution, the legislation in Ukraine is not regulated. This is the gap in the bill. Please support him in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u132	From the committee is Omelchenko Grigori Omelanovic. Please, two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u133	Omelchenko Grigory. Dear colleagues, honourable chairman, I will not repeat briefly the contents of the bill. The entire package of amendments and additions to the legislative acts of our country, which was developed and introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. I just want to point out, let me draw your attention to the following. This bill we were supposed to adopt with you about a year ago. We are in the midst of ratifying the conventions of the Council of Europe, the resolutions to be implemented by the Security Council or the United Nations, related to the fight against international terrorism, the laundering of dirty money, and so forth. The conventions are ratified, yes, and the bill is submitted in a year, a year and a half, or two. And then you and I are either in a black or so-called grey list of international organizations that do not implement national legislation to Ukraine’s commitments, that is, and in various international forums it is said to have to listen to comments, and critical. That's why I have a request. We've been discussing this on the committee. The committee unanimously decided to adopt the bill in the first reading, regardless of the observations made by our legal office and the expert office. They will be included in the second reading. But I have a request to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. In drafting similar bills, when you ratify the relevant conventions of the Council of Europe or other international organizations, or when a United Nations resolution is adopted, we, as a member of the United Nations, will please, along with these conventions, introduce a draft law that has already been drafted. Then we can accept practically harmoniously and very briefly. And one more thing, dear colleagues. May 12-13 this year will be. FAFT International, where the issue of Ukraine will be heard. And it's not going to be about the majority or the minority, it's not about the government, it's going to be about the state of Ukraine. And we're behind their monitoring on the so-called grey list, where non-implemented legislation does not have an effective fight against the laundering of dirty money.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u134	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u135	appropriate proposals, comments, especially the Committee on Banking and Financial Activities. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u136	Thank you. Yes. The question is clear? Should we vote in the first reading? Besides Carmazin, no one insists? Then Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin and Zarubinsky, one minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u137	Yuri Carmazin. You are a democratic man, Adam Ivanovich! Open our democratic law on the Rules, it says that I have two minutes to talk about it. Thank you. And this 10 is also going to add up. And add.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u138	Give Carmazin two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u139	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. I'm just asking you to live by law. Dear National Deputies! You don't need this law. Obviously we do. Obviously, we need to look good for foreigners as well. But we need to look good first for our people, for the citizens of Ukraine. And when we have money leaking into Cyprus accounts every day, into other offshore accounts, and the government doesn't want to do anything about it, and it raises prices. And you've seen what a fever today. Today, changes are included. We're not reducing excise duty. Here we vote, both in the first and the second reading. Because of this, terrorism against its own people must be stopped. That's the main thing. Because otherwise, no FATF will wash away, because in FatFi they will also know that we have viewers, looking beyond areas, in sectors, in regions, in whole areas. And that's why we have to fight it. The law can't be passed in two readings at once. He's got a lot of problems, a lot of them. Including those remarks, those comments expressed by the science-expert management on the entire 8 pages, where he concludes to turn this bill into a subject's right to, for processing. When I read the law carefully, I see that it is possible to work with it. It is absolutely possible to correct this law and, in the first reading, it can be voted in favour of both the Code of Administration and the financial suspension.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u140	Thank you. Two minutes, 21 seconds. Yes, please, Zarubinsky Oleg.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u141	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. I'll be there in a minute. In fact, it's a fundamental observation of science and science. But I'm not going to talk about those that relate to the inadequacy of terminology between certain laws, including today's existing ones, but only one point, I think, is principled and conceptual. I'll just read it. "The content of the project remains unclear both as to the grounds for arresting the assets concerned and as to the grounds for the removal of such arrest. The position of part five proposed by draft articles 183 and 184 seems questionable that the owner of the assets under arrest is not reported because in such a case, even in the event of an error, the owner of the asset will be deprived of the opportunity to prove the wrongness of the claim." This is a serious norm, and it has to be taken into account. So I also feel that the whole thing is too early. We can use it as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u142	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let us support the proposal made by the Committee, which was made by Gregory Omelchenko, and we will adopt a bill to amend some of the legislation on the arrest of assets associated with terrorist financing in the first reading. [[8224]] Please vote. [[18:06:45]] For 271 Copy that. The draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the prevention of the legalization of proceeds obtained by criminal means is under consideration. [[by number 8274, project registration number]] [[washing]] There is also a proposal for a reduced procedure, please vote. [[18:07:18]] For 206 Supported. Please, Sergey Grigorovitch Gurgy, head of the service. Please, Sergey Grigorovitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u143	Regarding the prevention of the legalization of proceeds obtained by criminal means, it is designed to implement the Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the European Council Convention on the Laundering, Search, Arrest and Seizure of Proceeds by Crime and the Financing of Terrorism. The Supreme Council of Ukraine ratified the convention by law on 17 November 2010 with a warning statement to article 17. In particular, Ukraine stated that it would apply the convention only to crimes identified in the list contained in the appendix to the convention. The convention adds a clear list of prenatal crimes, including stock market manipulation. According to the convention, illegal acts of manipulation in the securities market should be defined as crimes under the criminal law of States and pre-emptive to the laundering of funds. The draft law defines the manipulation of the stock market by setting its signs. There's eight of them. The Ukrainian Act on State regulation of the Ukrainian Securities Market is complemented by the relevant standards. The bill establishes administrative and criminal responsibility for the manipulation of the stock market. Criminal responsibility comes only if manipulation has caused much damage to the rights, freedoms and interests of citizens or public or public interests. It is the right of the State Commission to establish the presence of signs of manipulation from securities and stock markets as a result of its verifications. Ladies and gentlemen, please support the project in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u144	Thank you. Gregory Omelchenko of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u145	Gregory Omelchenko. Dear colleagues, the honourable chairman! Two bills related to the previous one that we adopted in the first reading. And once again, I want to draw your attention to this. How long has it been since the convention was ratified with warnings, and when is this bill being tabled? Six months. I remind you that as early as 2005, we ratified the Council of Europe convention on these issues and have not made appropriate changes to our current legislation, which also imposes a certain responsibility on us. So once again, a big request to the Cabinet of Ministers and representatives of the majority in Parliament to have the President of Ukraine, coming out of his speeches today. Well, let's say he guaranteed the timing of these bills, which the Cabinet of Ministers is introducing as the subject of the legislative initiative. We discussed this bill yesterday at our committee meeting, taking into account the conclusions of the expert board, even though he was talking about returning to work, we would be wasting our time. And so the committee unanimously, representatives of all the MPs and groups, invited the Supreme Council of Ukraine to accept this in the first reading, to finalize this bill, taking into account those critical and substantive observations of the Executive Board, and to contact our colleagues from the Committee on Banking and Financial Affairs to join it. A colleague of Oleg Zarubinsky’s before this bill pointed to these things. Dear Oleg, bring your comments, because I am about to be for second reading, so that by the end of the session, when we take a break, these two bills were passed as a law and signed by the President of Ukraine. This is very important and necessary. And to the end. These issues related to the fight against international terrorism, organized by international crime, transnational money laundering should be a joint effort, because, colleagues, there is no crime by nationality, party membership and so on. Crime.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u146	Thank you. Oh, and a lot of fighters! Yeah, let's do it this way. [[B in m in s a l in]] Wait! Arjebine, Yuri, and Zarubinsky Yeah? No one else? Okay. Then that's the way it is. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u147	Dear National Deputies! I'd like to remind you. That the stock market is the weakest segment we have in the capital market and because of the lack of the stock market itself in our country there are no structural changes, we don't have an update of capital, and so we have to be very careful with you in our legislative initiatives concerning the stock market itself. This bill, in fact, I would say that this is a mechanical and also, as the Scientific and Expert Office has said, a distortion of interpretations of various international recommendations at this convention. I think the way to be able to communicate in a timely and timely manner with our international overseers is not our principle of parliamentary standing. And now, essentially. Among other things, this bill should have been more considered on our banking committee than on the previous one. But essentially, for example, what is manipulation in the stock market? Now, I'm going to read to you and you, experienced deputies, whether you can understand what this is: "The manipulation of the stock market is an attempt to operate on the purchase or sale of financial instruments that can give you insight into the supply of securities that don't match reality." Please tell me, are these the rules of a bill that can be clearly understood by its mechanism? I don't think so. Second, another principle, when proposed changes to the administrative code, to the criminal code, such general reasons are stated, and then all of this is botched into special laws. I think it's also the wrong legislative path. The administrative fines offered here are greater than the fines offered for criminal offences. I think it's also the wrong question. That's why I'm also calling for you as well as scientific expertise, given that it needs to be conceptually changed, not simply to report, it needs to be sent.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u148	Carmazine, please. I'm sorry, I don't have that. It's a knock-off. Dig in, please. Both Jurys, so they know that.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u149	Thank you for the comparison. Yuri Prokopchuk, “BUT – “Batakščina”, Ravninščina. My dear colleagues, I'd like to say, very good intentions to fight corruption, to launder the funds that legalization has gone through or not legalized. But please tell me, will this law work? But obviously not. No matter how beautiful he is, perfect or not perfect, until we have a double-tax ratification agreement, which today, well, just doesn't go away, because the Party of Regions doesn't vote for him. And everyone knows that Cyprus is the world offshore zone. And everyone knows that against the backdrop of galloping inflation, rising prices, crises, people are living worse and worse, and we're growing from four billion dollars to 21. Then the question is whether this law will work at all. First of all, we need to complete the ratification of the Cyprus Agreement and get all the funds out of the offshore. Only then can this law be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u150	Oleg Zarubinski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u151	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! I'd like to elaborate on the problem raised by my colleague Arzhivitein. It uses terminology and the term "manipulating." And frankly, it's very difficult to define. Because according to a large account of manipulation as an idea of crime, of trying to perform operations and so forth, it's not a legal terminology. What's more, the correct conclusion is that if yes, without detailing the terms "manipulation," "intelligence," "invention" left behind, then the definition of "manipulations" would be subjective, and then it could be used for illegal influence on the professional activities of participants in the stock market. And I can't help but say that. I just think that in preparing for the second reading, it's going to have to be detailed. In the first reading, this bill can be adopted. You know, if this law were passed, if it had any international, legal guarantees, there would obviously be fewer international currency frauders in the world, who became billionaires, who today are great patrons and philanthropists, and there will be networks of their support, even though they have non-grat status, for example, in a country like Great Britain. It is the manipulators and the stock market and the securities market that play very well in the absence of such legislation in other countries too. That's why I think there should be such a law in Ukrainian legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u152	Question completed. They all agree that on the first reading, we can adopt a bill by number, except for bankers. That the first reading could be based on Bill No. 8274 – amending some Ukrainian legislation on the prevention of legalization, the laundering of proceeds obtained by criminal means. Please be supportive. [[18:18:22]] For 270. Thank you. Copy that. Dear colleagues, the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Allowance in Economic Activities is being considered. [[Registration number 7176]] [[on transformation, issue of duplicates, cancellation of documents of a permissive nature]] [[second reading]] Please, Natalia Juryovna Kraljevska, the men want to see you. It's the second reading, there's not a lot of amendments. I think we're pretty fast.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u153	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! This bill has been prepared for second reading. The purpose of the bill is to establish the principle of organizational unity in the issuance of permit documents by operators. That is, it aims to simplify the permit system and break down the barriers to registration. You know that today, entrepreneurs are forced to overcome a lot of obstacles to obtaining permits, even if we have passed a law with you on the principle of tacit consent and on a declarative principle. Unfortunately, however, these laws have not adequately helped entrepreneurs today calmly, without corruption, to obtain all the permits and all the necessary documents. For many years, the country has been talking about the Single Window, the licensing centres. And even in statistics, more than 400 have been created. But unfortunately, only units work, everyone else numbers on paper, and they don't show any total results. And unfortunately, we must recognize that the deregulation reform that has been identified today is one of the main in our country so far, only on paper. No one felt serious deregulation. Because bureaucratic fibers are coming because there is no reduction in the number of control organs, and we are absolutely not running a serious regulatory guillotine system when we have not eliminated all the necessary papers, but left only the necessary solutions in principle. And also, you know, we're still taking our last seats in international ratings, although we're still trying to get all the fibers and all the law-wrathing up there a few steps. But international ratings won't help here anymore. If there is no normal business climate in the country, if the official is at the head of any activity, if the controller's authority today depends on thousands of jobs and wages, there will be no economy, respectively, there will be no social standards. We therefore propose that this bill be adopted on second reading, as our permit system requires the fewer officials and the less contact between the clerk and the entrepreneur, the better the result. As soon as we can break this corrupt flow, the less burden today will be on the economy. Therefore, we believe that, in order to accelerate economic processes, it is necessary to move from merely the declarations of reforms to concrete action. This law will be one of the enabling elements of the action. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u154	Yes. All amendments except one colleague, Lapin, who does not insist, are taken into account. Let's give a big round of applause to Act 7176 on the amendment of the Ukrainian Law on the Free System in the Field of Economic Activities. Please vote. [[18:22:59]] For 259. The law is passed. The issue is being addressed – a draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts on the cancellation of a certificate of state registration of a legal person and of a natural person – an entrepreneur. [[Registration number 7516]] Second reading. Royal Natalia Yuriovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u155	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues, I propose to your attention the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation to repeal the State Registration Certificate of the Legal Person and the Business Person, No. 7516. The purpose of the bill is to allow the introduction of business without a State registration certificate, i.e. we cancel the certificate. You are aware that the State Registration Certificate does not perform any function other than to establish the very fact of State registration, but it does, of course, perform a number of other functions. It takes an extra "paper", behind the "paper" there's got to be an extra clerk, a "paper" must have a hologram, you have to spend public money on it, and it's all pretty good at that kind of corruption flow. Although we now have a state registry where on-line anyone who needs to be able to access and see, there is an enterprise where the founder, who is the director and where the enterprise is located. That is, the State registration certificate is an anochronism of the twentieth century, and we believe that today this paper does not help but creates additional elements of pressure. And the only function in it is to confirm the existence of an enterprise, and today this is duplicated by other existing instruments. A statement from the State Register of Legal Persons and Business Persons. And the information that's in there, I've already said, is much more adequate. You also know that the State Registration Certificate does not protect both legal and physical persons of the enterprise from termination. Finally, the certificate could be falsified and, therefore, the existence of a paper certificate of State registration did not grant any status to the undertaking. You will agree with me that today this is a completely empty paper that is more used in raid schemes than in a particular enterprise. We therefore propose that this law withdraw the certificate. Second. A statement from a single registry should be made free of charge. It's probably the most detonating norm of the law. Because, of course, they make a lot of money and make a lot of money on registers in our country. Making free, open and free access will be a real help to people today. Also, select several flows that are more appropriate for the development of the economy than for the control of different types of registers. Please support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u156	Thank you. Dear colleagues, Bill 59 of Amendments. These are 57 amendments made by a colleague of Lápina. 56 is counted, 1 is not counted, it does not insist. And Yegorenko's amendment, Harry, Stoyan, Dry is also included. Therefore, we have legal authority that has also taken place without notice. We have every reason to adopt, as a whole, the Act amending certain legislation of Ukraine with regard to the revocation of the State registration of a legal person and of a natural person who is an entrepreneur. [[Registration number 5516]] Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u157	Thank you very, very distinguished colleagues. [[18:27:20]] For 240 The law is passed. We have made life very simple for those who want to do business. And the last question is the draft Law on Prevention and Anti-Corruption of Corruption in Ukraine. [[Registration number 7487]] [[resecond reading]] Ivan Vasilovich Vernidubov, please to the rostrum. Yes, please, Knyazevich, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u158	Dear Adam Ivanovich, so it happened that during that period of amendment to the second reading, I submitted it a day later, and this happened for objective reasons. Including in connection with what had to be done with the Chief Legal Authority to work out a number of things and reconcile them with other bodies, including GRECO. And in view of these circumstances, the committee did not take any of my suggestions into account. I'm just going to have some corrections and I would ask you very much to give me the opportunity, because I think that some of them are very important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u159	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you that we have adopted this bill as a whole in the second reading, with the exception of the three articles and the "Final Positions" which we sent to read again. That is, we will go with you on the very issues and problems involved in these articles. That's one thing. The other one. Dear colleagues, those who made the amendments have an absolute right, and I say it's a good thing that they did. But I would like us to count the results of the previous consideration of this issue. Unfortunately, the vast majority of the amendments that have been made to 10, 15, 20, 30 votes, well, at most 50 votes, on second reading, now they have re-entered the machine to get us to vote again. So let me follow up if the amendments that relate to what they repeat, but the different ones, we vote one, we don't vote the rest, because they repeat. We need to define here, I'm sorry, Ivan Vasilovich, that I'm holding you a little bit in the rostrum, we need you to define what we haven't defined, what we didn't agree on. One problem is who is responsible for those who work in the public service or, more specifically, who is involved in this law against corruption, who are members of his family. You and I need to identify and prescribe right now. We're with you, nobody else. Because we write that only the law defines the form and order of filling out the declaration on those categories of people that are covered by this bill and to make certain clarifications about the people who refer to the category of individuals of private law. That's public private law. I mean, teachers, doctors, cultivators, especially those working in the country. That is to say, if he is a school principal, neither wife nor son nor daughter can work in school. Because that's corruption. If he is the chief physician, no member of his family in the hospital can work. If he's the head of the country club, no one in the country club can work. So we can settle this. Because if we don't settle, we're going to have to reset virtually all the mental workers working in the country today. And the last. In order to settle the end - of - the - line situation. Here's also what we need to focus on today's good and clear bill. I'm sorry I made such an introduction. I'm just reminding you of what we were talking about when we were looking at the second reading. And now we are discussing in a repetitive second, those articles that we had our objections about. Please, Ivan Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u160	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Colleagues! Your view is suggested by a revised, as instructed by the Supreme Council from March 15 to rereading, articles 1, 11, 12 and chapter 8 of the draft Law on Preventing and Resisting Corruption in Ukraine. Registration number 7487. After the second reading of the legislative initiative by the subjects, 78 amendments and proposals were made that, in accordance with the requirements of article 124 of the Supreme Council’s Rules, add a comparative table to the above - mentioned structural parts of the bill. Please note that on the right hand side of the comparative table of relevant parts of the bill, the text is given in the text proposed by the President of Ukraine, not in the text voted in this room in the second reading. To your attention, I propose this draft model of a declaration on property, income, expenditure, and financial obligations of a person authorized to perform functions as a State or as a local government. This model form is an integral part of the bill and includes positions on the property and income of loved ones, as well as foreign property and assets of the subject of responsibility for corruption. The second innovation of this bill is that it is proposed to set a specific date for the entry into force of the law – July 1, 2011. Exclusions constitute the provisions of the Financial Control Bill, this article 12. It is proposed to determine the date of entry into force on January 1, 2012. In this regard, it is envisaged that the 2011 declaration of expenditure will be effected from the date of entry into force of the law, that is, the second half of the current year. At its meeting on 5 April, the Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council that it adopt articles 1, 11 and 12 in the second reading, and Chapter VIII, “The Final and Transitional Positions”, of the draft Law on Prevention and Anti-Corruption of Corruption in Ukraine. The Committee proposed an appropriate draft regulation to the Supreme Council, which envisaged in the preparation of a bill for the third reading to separate its provisions on amending legislative acts into a separate bill amending certain Ukrainian legislation on liability for corruption. What we talked about earlier. Corruption is a systemic phenomenon, a direct threat to the rights and freedoms of citizens – the President said today in an annual speech. So let's get to work! Adam Ivanovich, I'm ready to move on.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u161	Yes, well, dear colleagues, let's follow the amendments. The 1st amendment, Carmazin, doesn't insist. Behwa's 2nd repair accounted for. Sweden doesn't insist, 3rd. Vlasenko, 4th. No, it's not. Five, no. 6th, Jacinyuk. No, it's not. 7th, Mishchenka. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u162	Thank you. Dear John Vasilovich, give me the answer to the question. So we left the notion of "neighbourly persons" the way we did in the first reading. So if you interpret it, you have a double explanation. Should marriages, children, parents, siblings, grandparents, grandchildren, adoptives, adoptives eat with corruption subjects, or should they make declarations, accept employment, whether they live or not? Because everyone points out that the concept of the first reading can be interpreted in double terms. I propose my editorials in such a way that I can separate the close relatives that I have read, as well as other people who are close if they live and live together. Then there won't be.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u163	I have to report to the Supreme Council that it was in article 1 that we voted in favour of the term "neighbourly persons" in the same way as in the first reading, but the words "and also" were deleted. And that is why I propose, Adam Ivanovich, to vote again then to approve the text that we have voted on. And then it will be clear that, of course, only those who live with the declarant, the main figure. And then all the two interpretations will go away.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u164	Dear colleagues, listen to me, too, Sergey. Listen to me, please. In fact, when we voted with you, we took the words "and also" away and in the same way established that only those who live together. And I'm going to go back to the previous editor now and leave the words "and also" in the definition of loved ones, but to define family members, because here in the definition of loved ones, loved ones will have a bearing on the fact that they have no right to be subordinated to each other. I mean, if a son, a daughter, a father, a grandfather, an aunt still doesn't live together, it's like they shouldn't refer to what they said might be subordination. The father is the boss and the daughter is the deputy chief. It can't be that way, of course, you understand. So I'm suggesting that we leave "neighbourly persons as well," because the close persons under this law only have a bearing on subordination, so that there is no complicity in power. And in the definition of “family members, ” family members are defined. Now I'll tell you what page it's on. On page 9, "family members" are defined only by persons who live together. Here are family members who have a bearing on the declaration. That is, close relatives have a bearing on the ministry, and here, I think, it will be right, and family members will only have a bearing on the declaration. I mean, when we approve a declaration with you, we will say that only the wealth of those living with the declarant will have to be declared. So I suggest we go this way. To really be where we define the category of close relatives, the word "and also" should be left behind and added to the definition of family members. I ask you to vote for an idea that should go through all the law. Once again, close relatives have orders to stay in the ministry and it doesn’t matter whether he lives together or not, but the father can’t be a substitute for his daughter or vice versa, and so on. And family members are people who live together and family members only apply to declarations. That's the approach I'd like to take. Please, Sergey Grigorovich Mishchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u165	Thank you. Adam Ivanovich, then for the sake of purity of the experiment, put my amendment first, it's clear that it is yes, and then you'll make your proposal. Then it will be right and right. While it is true that the family members are involved, if you have pointed out it, there is no remedy in article 12. At that time, family members were to be reported there. [[B in m in s a l in]] In article 21. The same thing before the declaration. But the declaration is quite different.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u166	Vlasenka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u167	Dear Adam Ivanovich, my amendment is called upon to extend to these loved ones because it is. Our logic is that we speak only of the family of the official, and we do not speak of his wife’s relatives. I mean, with a mother-in-law, he could be in subordination mode, and that's normal. So I propose to add the part "as well as children, parents, siblings, grandparents, grandchildren, adoptive wives or husband of an official." Because if she is his wife’s sister, she is his close relative, and they cannot be in subordination. And as we say, we have a definition now, so it's only going to be the relatives of a direct official. Even if his wife has a son from her first marriage or daughter, they do not fall within our definition. Because she is not an adopted child, but she is, in fact, a close relative. So there's a proposal to expand this list and agree with your concept that they're not.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u168	Dear colleagues, wait, don't beat me up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u169	Here's the question of whether we can or can't expand this circle. We can expand it, and accordingly the convention allows this to be done by a group of GRECO countries. The identification of loved ones from the current Civil Code was limited. Of course, we can follow that logic in connection with the proposed Owner, and it will not make the law worse here because there is a problem. But this list, and Sergei will probably agree, once again, is not exhaustive, because there are people who can and do not fall under it: best man, wife, mother - in - law, and so on. But you didn't count them here. So there are all the same things that we don't regulate by law. Although what's already in the law is a huge plus. So what he's proposing can be written, but it's not going to be an exhaustive list. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u170	Dear colleagues! So be careful, I'll put the next motions to the vote now. The first one will be Mishchenka’s offer. The second will be the offer of Vlasenko. And then I'll tell you what we'll do next. I'm putting Mishchenka's 7th amendment to the vote. I'd like to make up my mind. [[18:43:08]] For-28 Not supported. I'm voting on my colleague Vlasenek's proposal for a mother-in-law. I'd like to make up my mind. [[18:43:30.]] For-24 And now I'm putting in a proposition that I have here and that I've sounded: that on page two, where the definition of loved ones goes, the word "and so" should be left. That's the first one. The other one. To agree with the definition given to "family members" on page 9. And throughout the text, where it refers to loved ones. This has to do with being in the ministry. And what is involved in family members has to do with the declaration. Anyone for such an offer, please vote. [[18:44:24]] For 239. So we've adopted a concept that should permeate the entire law. Close relatives in the definition of "and also" apply to the subordination of these persons and family members to the declaration. Excuse me, people close to submission, and family members to declaration. 8th Amendment, Vlasenko. Are you insisting? Sorry, that was your 7th, 8th. Sweden, 11th. Don't you insist? 10th, Vlasenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u171	It is not counted, Adam Ivanovich. And that's a question in principle of this kind of legal technique, because it's suggested to replace the word "private interest" with the word "personal interest." Because the term "private" usually has something to do with civil relations, and the interest in an official might be a little bit broader, let's say, charitable. And it goes beyond civil relations, and it's more clearly reflecting the circumstances that we're talking about. And I'd like to use, I have 30 seconds left here to answer one of my colleagues that we can't use anti-corruption legislation in civil law terminology, because it's completely different subjects of regulation and a completely different instrument of terminology. It's the same thing that we don't use civil law terminology, let's say, in tax relations, because they're just different relationships. So to say that since the Civil Code lists loved ones as such, we should simply automatically use them and in this law it is simply wrong in terms of the theory of law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u172	But agree that it is more logical for all laws to be written in the same way. But if everything were to be the same, then it would be easier for us to live. The 10th amendment is a vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[18:46:33]] For-33 Not supported. Sweden does not insist. Schemchuk. No, it's not. Vlasenko. 16th. No, it's not. It's a knock-off. 17th. No, it's not. School. 18th. I can see you're here, but you're either on the phone or you're here. Please, Prokopchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u173	Thank you. First of all, I am again paying attention. We have a lot in this law of expulsion. Some are sent to the Notaryate Act, others to the Civil Code, to the Tax Code. My proposal is that we define what non-material assets are, and it's clearly regulated. Because if such amendments are not taken into account, the person who works directly with this law should base himself as a minimum, all kinds of codes, and all kinds of documents. And along with that, if you have to, take it with you, and pull all this mass. So I think this amendment is completely logical and relevant here.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u174	Thank you. I also agree with you that the less references to other laws, the better. I'll put the 17th amendment to the vote. I'd like to make up my mind. [[18:48:15]] For-25 Not supported. School, 18th. Are you insisting? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u175	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. I, by the way, also support my colleague, which is here and the send-off standards. I cannot understand why we reject the proposed definition as contained in article 81 of the Ukrainian Civil Code. Well, this is, first of all, it's contradictory that this is the amendment, which is what it's in this form. And secondly, I can't understand why this amendment isn't there. Because the official, the legal person, is public. the persons who hold the office of manager and deputy director of the legal person who are created. President of the State Authority of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea At the expense of the local budget, they work, and they should be subject to the same articles and regulations of the same law as we will send them to the Civil Code. Now I don't understand, and in general, someone would explain to me why we're making the law one more time to send it to the Civil Code. Let's focus on the corruption law in the Anti-Corruption Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u176	It's the 18th amendment to the vote. [[18:49:43]] For-23 Yes, I have a computer. 23 is not supported. 19th, Mishchenka. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u177	Dear colleagues, Mr. Adam Ivanovich, we have written under the transcript a second reading of your proposal that we need to define the notion of "persons and legal persons of public law." What you're saying right now is that if we don't define it, then this notion of "the subject of corruption" is subject to doctors, cultists, doctors, teachers and so on. So we are now, really, if we don't define the concept of who these officials and legal persons of public law are, it's clear that half the country sits simple. And so I looked, maybe in another sex, the committee worked on this concept, but in other articles, there is no subject for corruption. This article does not. Why Rejected? Why was this not defined under the transcript? And what's more, it's not right to apply 81st, it's about legal persons talking about, John Vasilovich, not about officials.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u178	Don't blame Ivan Vasilovich, he's just the head of the task force and the reporter, working together. Dear colleagues, let's focus a little bit on what we really need to find this definition. Because I remind you, when we put this article back on second reading, we returned precisely because of my proposal to find that definition. So let's find this definition together, and this is going to be a very positive work. Now, now we're gonna find him. Please, Knyazevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u179	Dear colleagues, Sergey Mishchenko is absolutely right. Logically, it would be possible to follow a perfectly normal, simplified course. In the 4th article, the list of subjects had to make exceptions in parentheses, except for those in the fields of education, culture, and science, and health care. However, we have not sent this article to read again, and we cannot now consider it. We can, of course, close our eyes and formally, according to the formal signs of the contradiction of the 81st Civil Code, we can't consider anything at all. But we need to consider it, because if we don't look at it, we need to take logic again, go again, or go again. Or by this law, send the second and fourth articles again. Marzam. So I suggest, there's a definition, it's really based on the Civil Code. But let's write it in parentheses, "except for legal persons who belong to education, science, culture and health," and that solves all the questions. I can hear the full text then, and I think everyone in the room, and this problem will be removed in the first article. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u180	Yes. Come on, give me that text first. Let's talk about this. Anyone who wants to sign up. Please sign up. I'm sorry we're gonna stop at it because that's what this is.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u181	We have a definition.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u182	Because that's an important question. Ivan Vasilovich, we'll come back to your mind. Yes, would you please sign in? Yes, Mr. Sergei, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u183	Thank you. Dear colleagues, Adam Ivanovich! Perhaps the offer of Ruslan Knazevitch is well received, but there it is limited to the areas in which the future works, perhaps the subjects of corruption. It's going to be wrong to define all spheres. This is a very large list of these spheres. I propose my 19th law specifically to indicate, by reference to the Civil Code, where there is the concept of a legal person of public law. But we say, if we now define what an official of a public law person is, where there is no law. Now we can figure it out. These are managers and deputy heads, heads of state and municipal enterprises, associations and institutions that form and enter the sphere of governance of the President of Ukraine, the State Authority, the Autonomous Republic of Crimea Authority or the local self-government body. That's it. And neither doctors, teachers, nor socio-sculpts will have anything to do with the concept.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u184	Yes, Kravchenko. Beams, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u185	Dear colleagues! Article 4, paragraph 3, states: Persons who regularly or temporarily hold positions related to the performance of organizational or administrative duties. And when we say that the representatives of education, culture, medicine and so on, it's only about those who perform organizational arrangements. The head of the department at the medical facility, he is the subject of our law. Just doctors. The school director is the subject. It's just that the teacher didn't. There's nothing strange about that. The law says again, organizational arrangements. All of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u186	Ephraim, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u187	Dear colleagues! At times, families travel and work in rural areas. If we introduce these rules, then we will limit the ability of these people to work together, who have been specially trained for this work. I therefore support the proposal made by the People's Deputy Knazević, which is most appropriate in this situation. And please pass the word to Pecklusenko Alexandre Nikolaevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u188	School, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u189	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. In fact, if we push into this list, Mr. Beales came forward and said, I understand that there are European standards that say who we have as head of the department at the village hospital. Do you understand? Who's doing the organizing functions. Let's take a simple teacher, and if this simple teacher is a substitute there is. And in rural school, there are directors, teachers, and three teachers. We already have two potential subjects in rural school, two potential corruption subjects. [[I hope it doesn't.]] If we take the doctors, we take the other cult students, we might not count someone. So I think, by the way, my same 18th amendment better explains this position. There will be no effect on anything but those who can be defined as corrupters and all, those who are responsible, not those who carry it out.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u190	Zarubinsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u191	Dear colleagues! Why should the exception, as the colleague Knyazevitch suggests, be limited to three spheres. This was my understanding: education, culture, and medicine. Please tell me, but there are no similar problems in other areas. "Physculture and Sports" is called. I just can't think of anything else right now, because there are other spheres that don't fall under these three. Wrong methodology proposed. I think we need to think about what my colleague Mishchenko is saying, perhaps in a somewhat refined way, but not to do except because we have a lot of exceptions to do right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u192	Peanut.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u193	I think my colleagues have focused very rightly on this, and I am grateful to my colleague Knazević, quite rightly. And the sport supplement is also correct, so I think it should all be included. First of all, because in science we have almost as many labor dynasties as our father, son, and so on. Second of all, for what. If we're saying that every law on anti-corruption has to be, we've got to check it out with you. So, if we don't do that by working on this amendment, maybe by remembering another industry, remember my words. Our law enforcement officers, who work on sticks and sticks, will first implement this decree into health, education, culture, sport and science. We are therefore obliged to make changes in the proposed revision.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u194	Yes, Karpuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u195	Vladimir Karpuk, “Our Ukraine”. I mean, because. The argument over medicine, education, because it's the rural areas where couples practically go to work and then create these families. And most of all it's created in these areas. As a result, it is not necessary to expand science accordingly. That's clearly what we need to formulate. I support Ruslan Knazevitch's proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u196	And there's science in Knazevitch. Yes, Your Honor, once again, and we will vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u197	Dear colleagues, I'll explain to Zarubinsky what I've been doing. That was the direction of the Supreme Council when we decided to correct the article. I did not go beyond that directive, in accordance with the Rules. Well, it's very formal. But if the session hall considers that something should be expanded, such as physical and sports workers, we can agree. But not to write out these exceptions would be, to me, a criminal mistake right now. First of all, it's not even about the village. What do we have in cities like this, that there is a man and a woman working at school, a family, and no more wages? And tomorrow, the woman will no longer work at school. And where is this family going to make a penny of it with such hard work? Because it seems to me that we should not just be in rural areas, we have a total problem in the country, and it concerns three main areas: doctors, health care, culture, and education. If you consider a session hall that should be added to others, we can go there, but to reduce it, I think it would be completely illogical. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u198	Dear colleagues, I sum it up. [[B in m in s a l in]] To sum it up, be careful. Be careful. Everything you've said has a right and a right to life. So I suggest you write it down: The official of the legal person of public law, the person who assumes the office of manager or deputy manager of the legal person or his apparatus, created by the orderly act of the President of Ukraine, the authority of the State, the authority of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea or the authority of the local self-government, in brackets, and receives, closed brackets, and receives a salary on the account of the State or local budget, as well as other employees of these legal persons on whom laws or other normative acts have been imposed on the exercise of organisational and administrative and administrative functions. [[In addition to legal persons belonging to the fields of education, science, culture, health and physical culture and sports]] This is what I'm asking you to vote on. Vote. Take off the vote, please. The thought of the committee. You have failed to follow the direction of the Supreme Council, and you are now presenting a claim to us. The Supreme Council, directing the first article to read again, gave you the second, gave you the only task, the only one, to determine the office of a private person. Why didn't you do that, please explain?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u199	I'll explain. But you do not need to shout, Adam Ivanovich, so you will come home to your wife you will shout. I'm explaining that we are really harmonising all Ukrainian legislation and explaining it to everyone. We're looking at the first article, which is called "Determining Terms." We don't define who's responsible for acts of corruption or doctors or anything. We're nothing here, we're defining terms. And we can't just write in terms that there are officials in all of them, and that's when schools get that there are no officials at all? I'm not asking you, please sit down, I listened to you, listen to me! So, legislation answers all these questions, I read a second article of the Ukrainian State Service Act, and it says that it's an office, which is an official, that defines it in general. Next. Article 2 of the Ukrainian Law on Service in Local Self - Government. He also says that they are officials of local self - government.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u200	Dear colleagues, calm down. I'm voting on a proposal that I've made on the basis of generalizing all your proposals. So let's say that everything you've been saying here, in this proposal that I've read, it's taken into account, it's focused on what we've been talking about with you. Here is the Mishchenka of the idea, and the School, and the Prince, and the Zerubinites, and the Ephraimites, all those who spoke, the Pellshenko, and so on, Bealz, all those who spoke, are here. So I'm voting on the proposal to define an official, a legal person of public law, as I read. Please vote. [[19:04:53]] For 276 Thank you. Ivan Vasilovich, I'm sorry, you're also right. But once again we go back to the idea that, in fact, it won't be necessary to lay down dozens of laws in order to look for what an official person of public law is. We have defined here in this law, for there is much in the law about these persons. And to avoid looking for what it is, please, in the first article, where the definitions are given, we gave you. Believe me, we didn't make it worse, we just made it better. So the 21st Bevenza amendment, which is counted, we've already confirmed it with respect to family members. And I put it to a vote taking into account what we've been talking about, the acceptance in article 1 that defines terms. Please vote. [[19:05:57]] For 282 Thank you, 282, article adopted. Yes, we now move on to the 11th article, "Special check on persons who claim to be in positions of authority or local self-government." There's no Jojik. Carmazine 27th. Sorry, you've been covered up by a youth member of our movement. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u201	Jaroslav Jojik, Ukrainian People's Party. Dear Adam Ivanovich! Well, first of all, I want to draw the attention of the entire room that we are witnessing today that members of the parliamentary majority, very often speaking about the quality of the article that we have just considered, are essentially saying what the opposition said a few weeks ago. That the bill is not a tool to combat corruption, but rather a tool to establish a totalitarian regime in the state, primarily through the control of teachers, doctors and cultural workers. That's why I want to, I'm positive about this change in the position of the majority, and in this way I want to draw their attention to the inadmissibility of adopting this bill in such an editorial way and I urge them to change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u202	Thank you, Jaroslav Ivanovich, but for the sake of justice, it was through the insistence of most of the 1st article that the second article was directed at rereading to give us the definitions that we have made today. So it was both will and, above all, the will of the majority, because you know who votes and provides for the vote. Don't insist. That's what I understood about the vote. Carmazine, 27, please. I'm talking about jojik.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u203	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Adam Ivanovich, I look, listen and think. Few articles have been published, since in other articles there is no less nonsense than these, and you can see how much it takes to discuss them. You've chosen 19.08 to get everyone tired. We can't all get tired. But voting is also carried out in violation of article 84 of the Constitution, or for others. I don't think that's what most or some other president taught today. He was talking about upholding the Constitution. And my amendment concerns that since voters need to know that information to candidates that would not give them the right to choose a post, the words "except candidates for the presidency of Ukraine, candidates for the Ukrainian People's Deputies, candidates for the ARC Supreme Council, local councils and rural, rural heads" should be excluded. Our voters have to know everything, so this test has to take place.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u204	Yeah, that's in the Elections Act. I'll put the 27th to a vote, please. [[19:09:26]] For-12. 28th, Vlasenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u205	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. It is simply that when we adopt the law in such haste, some inaccuracies or even contradictions are involved. If we carefully read part of the parchment of article 11, it sounds like: "There are persons who claim to take office as listed in part one of the first part of article 4 of this law, except candidates for the presidency, national deputies and so on, there is a special examination." So it can be interpreted in such a way that it doesn't seem to be tested for candidates. However, if we look at the same law with you, but paragraph 6 of part three of this article, we have a discussion that we have a special test going on anyway. It needs to be done because I agree with the argument of colleague Carmazin, perhaps it will be defined by a special law, and there are no questions about it. But if we're talking about what we're excluding here from the parentheses of these people, then it's going to mean that they can't be tested at all.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u206	Dear colleagues! I remind you of our conversation when we received the second reading. We were just talking about taking away the right of the Central Electoral Commission to do special checks. And if we're going to record that the candidates for the MPs are being checked out, who's going to check it out? Central Election Commission. And the Central Electoral Commission will have the right to check and say, "Oh, no, Ivanov, you don't agree to an MP." So we took it so that we wouldn't have any problems. And what is involved with the electorate will be well - known. But we voted on the 27th, and on the 28th, it's the same, there's no need to vote. 29th, Carmazin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u207	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Adam Ivanovich, I'm still from the chairman, today of the Annunciation, I don't want to upset you, but I demand that you block the cards of the missing deputies. The cards of those MPs who didn't sign up for the evening session today are now voting at the registration desks, as I was told. It's not normal. This is Adam Ivanovich. If you want to know, you're going to have to file a report on corruption today. Because you don't take measures for it, and you cover those who are now entering the budget, including the budget, because they're going to get paid. So, Adam Ivanovich, I warn you, it is you who question the adoption of the whole law at all. I understand what you should do, the party said, but you have to do it today, but you have to have a conscience. The 29th amendment requires that we amend the words "except the cases established by law" by replacing the words "in accordance with the law." Because it's an organization.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u208	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. I'm telling you the good news is that according to the Chairman's Rules, there's no right to block a card, because there's no technical way to block a card, except that we, sometimes you do what you're blocking, in the headman's. And I have no right to block those nests. The 29th vote. [[19:13:13]] For-13. Not supported. Carmazine's 30th amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u209	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Adam Ivanovich, even now, is interested in the media, how much more will we abuse people here and thus adopt laws when the hall is empty. You will inform the community to know how much you report, then perhaps counting people is part of your responsibility. And I propose a paragraph, in the 30th Amendment, a paragraph to be considered part three and to put it in such an order, "the organization of a special examination relies, apart from the cases established by law, on the manager, the deputy head of the public authority, the local self-government authority, on the appointment of a person. And, Reverend Adam Ivanovich, when we talk about the Rules, I would like you to, let's ensure a direct standard of the Constitution. It's a direct action, 84th, I remind you, part three. It says, "The vote in the sessions is conducted by the Ukrainian National MP himself."
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u210	You're absolutely right. There is such a rule in the Constitution, but no law, including the Rules, has written down how the presiding officer is to ensure it. The 30th amendment shall be voted on. Please make up your mind. [[19:14:51]] For-12. Jojik, 31st.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u211	Jaroslav Jojik, Ukrainian People's Party. Dear colleagues, we have all witnessed how this morning the President greeted both the hall and the entire Ukrainian people with a great Christian festival. Of course, in Christian traditions, including during such a celebration, to meet in the family circle, to discuss good things. Today we are witnessing how on a holiday day after the end of working time we are working on a document that can be of exceptional importance to the future Ukrainian and state, and democracy, and Ukraine as such. So what I'm trying to do is push this law, which, once again, is not the law on combating corruption, but the law on establishing a totalitarian regime. And considering it in this way in the great Christian festival is a way to hide from society and what we really accept in this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u212	Yes, the 31st vote. [[19:16:21]] For the four of us. Dear colleagues! The right of amendment national deputies to insist and we will consider and vote. But once again, these amendments were already under consideration in the second reading. The 11th article we sent for re-reading just because of one thing -- to say that the Declaration defines the law. And it is with you today that we have to define this declaration. Everything else we considered and rejected. That's why I'm addressing you, your esteemed colleagues, who brought you in, if you insist, you'll speak and we'll vote. But listen to why we sent her back. To determine by law that the law, not Minfin, is defined by declaration. Please, Vlasenko, 32nd.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u213	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. I've listened to you, and I want to point out that this article tells us that all candidates for all positions of office are subject to verification. Again, the same article says that the organization of such a special examination relies on the head or deputy head of the public authority, the local self-government, to take up a position in which a person claims to be in other than the cases established by law. In doing so, this article does not entirely address the question of who arranges for the examination of the candidate himself as head of that body. And that's the gap. Where does it say that you're a senior executive? It's not written down. I won't. It's a failure. Therefore, I propose that it be eliminated, saying that a special examination of persons claiming to be leaders, deputy heads of public authorities or local self - government of other self - organization agencies, and so on, is carried out by special authorized subjects in the area of anticorruption, that is, in order to close this gap simply because it exists.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u214	You're probably right. But if I'm not mistaken, there are some normative acts that determine that all the officials who take office there are heads of state administrations, ministries, departments and so on, and so on. Puts the 32nd to a vote. [[19:18:53]] For the 17th. This is what Mishchenko helped me that in the Law on State Service, what action we are taking is. All right, Jojik, 35th. You will? Thirty-three? Thirty-three. There's no sawdust, it's rejected. "The organization of a special examination of candidates for the post of judge shall be carried out by the Higher Qualification Commission of Judges of Ukraine." Thus: "Participation of the Supreme Qualifications Commission of Judges of Ukraine in conducting a special examination of candidates for the post of judge, provided for in paragraph three of the first part of article 66 of the Ukrainian Law on the Judiciary and Status of Judges." I mean, I don't see the need to smite, sorry, the law. This is all foregone, so we don't have to repeat it, Mikhail Vasilovich. Agree that the committee did the right thing. This is part of another law, why bring it here? What's more, the less the law says, the better, because there's a special law on the system. Yes, please. [[B in m in s a l in]] Yeah? Is that what this is about? Please, Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u215	Yuri Carmazin. Dear national deputies, dear Adam Ivanovich! Where we're talking about judges, I'd like you to think that it's a test, and it's not for their leaders to do that. One small example: The head of the Kharkiv Court of Appeal, please consider Borodin Mikhailovich, who is a citizen of the Russian Federation! And since February, I demand that he be held accountable by the Attorney General. Since February! And we're talking! And there's property, there's real estate, and everybody's sitting there, quiet, nobody. Flies don't fly! And we want to set up a protocol here. How did the Security Service report to us? Foreigners run courts in the largest regions of the country! I don't know who, and the Prime Minister, we'd all retire if we were in a normal country and we had it. So let us not reject that in another law. Let us now, if it is a complex law, foreknow everything, Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u216	Knazevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u217	Adam Ivanovich! This problem can be solved if we correct the last word, in addition to cases of established laws, in addition to cases established by laws. And then it's going to consume not only this law, but the law you're talking about, the status of judges. Because if we don't, then this law will be in conflict with that law, and since we're talking about exceptions, it's the exceptions that are settled by other laws.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u218	Ruslan, but agree, it's not said by this law, it's said figuratively by law, and that's right, it's legally supported by Vlasenko, by law, not by "this law," that is, by any law. I'm sorry. Thirty-three cleared. 35th, Jojik. Don't insist. Oh, no? 36th, 37th, 38th counted. Vlasenko, 39th. Oh, no? Verni Dubov, accounted for. Konovaluk. Jojik, 42nd, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u219	Jaroslav Jojik, Ukrainian People's Party. Dear Adam Ivanovich! We are now witnessing how, especially in the first article, we have often witnessed how the majority of us, including, spoke in the words of the opposition and during that state of affairs that was discussed earlier in this bill. So during this period, there was an awareness of all of those risks to the Ukrainian State if the law was adopted in this edition. Therefore, since this paragraph is principled, this amendment, article 42, provides for the establishment of the reliability of property information and its cost, income, and expenses not only for the official concerned but also for those close to it. This is the principle of amendment, since it is possible to put it to the vote again. And in view of what we saw in the first article, there was a change in the position of the majority.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u220	Thank you, Jaroslav Ivanovich. You have the right to correction and it is logical, but you see that there is a decision of the Constitutional Court. I'm putting the 42nd amendment to the vote, please. [[19:23:59]] For the Vlasenko, 44th.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u221	Dear Adam Ivanovich, my amendment is practically identical to that of colleague Jodjik, but I must respond to your decision of the Constitutional Court and note the following. First of all, there is no such decision by the Constitutional Court. That's the first one. The Constitutional Court has declared the decision to be an unconstitutional rule of law, which has been repealed. Accordingly, there is no subject of regulation by the Constitutional Court, that's the first. We have isolated cases where the Constitutional Court is changing its legal position and has nothing to do with it. So you don't have to refer here to a decision of the Constitutional Court that defined whether or not the Constitution was in conformity, nor, I'm saying once again, it was a law that had already been repealed. That's why I'm asking you to vote on this. Thank you, Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u222	Dear colleagues, let us hear what we voted on in the first article. And that's why I'm not putting it to the vote anymore. In the first article, we voted on our close relatives and told them what that meant. And they voted in the family that this is about the declaration, or everywhere about the declaration, and there will be no family members, and no family, no family, no family, no family, no family, no family, no family, no family, no family. Wherever labor subordination is concerned, the term "neighbourly relatives" will be. So please, we won't vote any more and don't be offended. I won't put your proposals to the vote, because we've already voted them. So all that's relevant, right over here, I see Vlasenko and the next 39 is the same thing. Yeah, now, wait. 42nd, we talked. 44th. 46th, same thing. 47, that's what I'm talking about. Please, Vlasenko, 47th.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u223	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich! We have in this law another logical gap, because we're talking about that a special test should not be subject to, I don't know, relatives, loved ones, or anyone else, because it seems to violate their constitutional rights. At the same time, we're going to include these people in the declaration. What's the point of this, if you can't even verify this data during special purposes. Checks? Where's the logic? Or we should do a special. check on those people to confirm any data entered into the declaration or not to include this data in the declaration. Because there's no point in the numbers and the lines that are even in the proposed declaration now.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u224	It's very simple. If we grant the right to verify the validity of a full declaration, each digit in the declaration is subject to verification, and there are declarations and family members. Here's the right, you have the right to verify the authenticity. The 47th vote is on the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[19:27:45.]] For the 15th. Not supported. Yeah, 51st, huh? 49th? Yes. I'm going to rule out the word "healthy." 49th and the same 50th. Knazevitch, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u225	Adam Ivanovich, do you remember what this was about? I insisted, but since this is a requirement of GRECO, we left. But I'm pointing out that this is about special diseases, or infectious diseases, and chronic diseases, and not just any diseases. As an example, I said that if a person has a hemorrhage, it does not mean that he is not able to sit in the workplace to provide a basis for his release from work. In this regard, the Ministry of Health’s Office should be given the task of developing a special manual to determine such a list. If we can't do that and it's an area of abuse, I would suggest that we remove the state of health right now. Because, as far as I'm concerned, "health" is a judgmental thing. And someone may not like what is considered normal. And on this basis, a person will be deprived of his right to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u226	The point is, if they don't want to take it, they won't take it without checking it out. That's the first one. That's the first one. Second, let’s agree that health — especially what is at the edge — should be checked so that it does not occur. I think we're nothing here, that's all. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'll put it to a vote. Please be sure, 49th and 50th. [[19:29:44]] For 221 It's left. Believe me, it's nothing here, and, really, I support my colleague Knyazevitch, who needs to develop such a method that it's not what anyone wants, he writes help. And I think that if we adopt a bill, it's Kabmin for the Ministry of Health that's going to come up with that kind of help. But what needs to be checked, well, agree. Yeah, now, now, now. When the whole article is voted on. Your amendment is not yet in place. Yes, Carmazin, we've already identified it, we've determined it by health. We've determined that the health care sub-paragraph should be excluded. We voted. 51st, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u227	Yuri Carmazin. Dear people's deputies, it's very bad that we are now defining such things, and here's the thing, my suggestions, about removing this point. And there's health, education, because you're all taking documents, you've got, you've got science, you've got science, you've got science, you've got qualifications. What might be a special test of this? I'm asking you, what is it? None. So the whole point, he's not carrying any load. And then there's an overestimating judgment that someone's going to give. For example, the ability to forget some nation’s capital. What's that? Anemia, they'll say. No, I just forgot the man. And we'll talk about it, let's move away from the position in order of impeachment, because under the condition of health, someone can't do the duty. Obviously, this will be wrong. Because there were 221 votes, let's add this item to it, and let's rule it out. I'm asking you to back me up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u228	Very good. But how many diplomas do not correspond to because a person does not have an education? About higher education. How many degrees and so on and so forth? Well, let's be serious people, Yuri Anatolyevich. Do you want to cover? You have, I know, no school that has anything to do with this. So why are you covering this? Remember the thing we were doing here with you? There'll be a replica. We've already voted on that, yes. We've already voted for it. We're not going back. Yes. Next. Next. 101st? Now, now. Vlasenko, 56th.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u229	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich! The point is again that we are talking about our responsibility for filing false data during a special test. If the declaration is even checked, as it is now written, the official will not be responsible for what is wrong with the declaration in part of his family. Then again, what is the point of writing, what is the point of filling out a declaration in part of a loved one, if there is no responsibility for the incorrect completion of this chapter. That's why I'm going to add, after the words "for myself," to add "they're close." And then it will be understood that if there are misinformation in the declaration, then the official will not be appointed in principle. Otherwise, it will simply be a proponent of filling out the part that relates to the income and expenses of the family, for there is no responsibility for what is wrong there, even if it is knowingly wrong to fill out, nothing will happen to the candidates for office.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u230	Thank you. You're right, but there's no definition of "neighbors," we've defined "close relatives." I'll put 56 on the vote, please. [[19:34:03]] For the 18th. Not supported. 59th, Mischenka. Don't you insist?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u231	No, I insist, I insist. Thank you. Adam Ivanovich, pay attention to my 59th ruling that the order of organization and the conduct of a special inspection can only be established by law. The President can't confirm this order. See, once again, a reference to the legal system. What's the first point? That it is an anticonstitutional norm that does not take account of article 106 and the five decisions of the Constitutional Court. We are once again exposed to the fact that, once this law has been passed, there will be an application to the Constitutional Court and this position will be defined as unconstitutional. What am I proposing? I'm sure this order in the Presidential Administration is already in place. Now, why don't we quickly pass this law on the President's initiative, this is order instead of paragraphs, call it articles, regardless of what the President is, we're going to vote for it, for this order. Why do we break the writings on such a decision? And more by all three notes, this red thread goes through.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u232	It's 59 ta on the vote. [[19:35:37]] For the 18th. Not supported. By the 57th, the committee had turned down that setting up a special test of the applicant's being falsely informed about himself was a consequence of refusing to be elected. The establishment of such a fact is also reported within three working days by law enforcement authorities. Ivan Vasilovich, why didn't the committee count?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u233	Because it's all there is.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u234	There's more, isn't there? Please, Beavs.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u235	I read literally in article 11, paragraph 3, “In the event of a special examination of the fact that the applicant has been denied the position of false information.” [[next to Text]] It's a pure editorial situation. What we are discussing, let us read the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u236	Mikhail Vasilovich, you understand that she is in another city, that is, the committee did the right thing. Mishchenka, 60-Ta. We've already voted "established by law." Mishchenka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u237	Thank you. I understand there was no argument. What I said, because it's undeniable, there's no question that this anti-constitutional is going to be a norm. But, Adam Ivanovich, I have an offer about health. You have faithfully said that the Ministry of Health should develop such help. Let's write about it in the Final Positions: commit the Ministry of Health to develop this kind of help. And that's it, we'll settle the question after. Health.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u238	Let's go to the Ends. Let's talk. 61st, same thing. 62nd. Yuri Anatoliovich, please look at the Rules. If an unsupported amendment has been voted on, the following amendments shall not be discussed or voted on. So I'm sorry. [[B in m in s a l in]] Once again, we have just voted on the 59th Mishchenk amendment: the organization of a special inspection is established by special law. Carmazine: The organization of a special inspection is approved by law. It's the same thing. Set. [[B in m in s a l in]] Who's to it? to give the word to Karmazin? [[B in m in s a l in]] I've got the Rules! He was the first to be voted. [[19:38:16]] For-7. Yuri Anatoliyovich, I'm following the Rules. 62nd Vlasenka. Same thing. Yes, Carmazin, 67th. Well, please, 67 you can argue.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u239	Yuri Carmazin. I'm reminding you that it's been 19 hours 38 minutes. In a counterconstitutional way, rape occurs again, Adam Ivanovich. I remind you that article 92 of the Constitution stipulates that only laws determine human rights and freedoms, by no decrees of the President. It's not there! What's your trade? Why would you cross the Constitution? And now you're saying "earlyness"! You'll give it to me or not, Adam Ivanovich! The Ukrainian people gave me their word, not you. As a result, I ask you to respect the rights of the people's deputies provided for in the Constitution, at least by those present. Because other rights are still being used here. The order of the organization of a special examination, the special features of the exercise, I give an editorial on the candidates for the presidency, the candidates for the national MPs and so on, the positions of the rural heads of the city are established by law. [[of the village]] I am.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u240	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. You are granted the right by the people, but the first man Adam, according to the Rules, takes that right away from you. 67 votes, please. [[B in m in s a l in]] That's the question! [[19:40:10]] For -14 Yes, 14, not supported. The Prince doesn't insist. 60th. "According to a close person for a party." Yes. Bevz, accounted for. School and Mishchenko. By 71? Please. It's counted. Aah! Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u241	This is about the idea that now the form of a declaration is going to be the law, not Minfin and Minusto. But it's not about form, it's about pattern. The pattern is when the form is filled and the word "example" is written. And the shape is when the pictures are made. And it's about form, and that's what the Ministry of Justice agrees with. So I would ask very much everywhere in the text the word "example" is added to this law to change the word "form" as we gave directives on the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u242	Thank you. Let's agree and vote that where "model" is replaced by the word "form" added to this law. And where we're going to confirm, it's not a pattern, it's a form. Please vote. Vote. The opposition supports. [[19:41:35]] For 269 I mean, we've been cleared up on Behvizza. He did what, once again, I emphasize, we directed this article to the second. That it's not Minfin that sets the law, it's that it sets the law, but it's not an example, it's a form. Knyazevich, 76th, does not insist. What's that? 77th. Six, please. Knazevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u243	76th. This is precisely what Mishchenko said, that the form, according to medical advice, should be approved by the Ministry of Health. That may be, Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u244	Please continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u245	So, given this, I still insist that it should be a mental illness test, it's neurological, it's infectious, it's not just any ordinary disease, it's very important. And let the Ministry of Health take that into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u246	Okay. 77th, Your Honor, we can't vote 77th because we've already voted on it. This is about a health check. Don't insist on it. Verni Dubov, accounted for. Konovaluk. Vlasenko. 83rd. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u247	Adam Ivanovich, I will not insist on this amendment. But I would ask if we have a situation where there are several amendments to the same question, if there are several amendments to the same question, please give the word to everyone, if possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u248	Thank you. Let's be, really, if from one question, because we don't vote anymore, so we don't get offended, because everyone might have an argument. That's a good offer, you hear. 79th, it's editorial. Mikhail Vasilovich, don't insist, she doesn't carry the principle of load, she doesn't carry it at all, please read. So, your honorary colleagues, we went through 11 articles, and, again, I emphasize that the committee took into account Bebaz's amendment, with the clarification of the colleague of Knyazevitch, we took into account the commission that we were sending, this article, for which this article was sent for a second reading. So given what we voted on, I put the 11th article to the vote. Please vote. [[19:44:30.]] For 268. The 11th article, whose main point is that neither the Ministry nor the law establishes the form of a declaration and its completion is established by law, we have taken into account. Article 12 — What Does the "Financial control." Here, I remind you, we sent the 12th article to read again to confirm the form of the declaration. Yes, Cosmackin, 95th, does not insist. Dear colleagues, if you don't mind, may we proceed immediately to the approval of the form of the declaration? Oh, no? Are there any specifics? Yes, please, Ivan Vasilovich, right away. What's the amendment?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u249	Dear friends, this is not an amendment to the form of a declaration.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u250	No, we haven't reached the declaration yet, I'm still looking at the amendments. Mishchenka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u251	Thank you. Adam Ivanovich, I have the 99th amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u252	What's that?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u253	99th.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u254	Okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u255	But if we had already voted on family members, it would be logical, of course, that in the first paragraph of article 12, the persons who were appointed would submit a declaration and family members.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u256	No, family members do not make declarations. He's giving a person, and there's a "family" in this declaration, which means they don't, you get it. So who else from colleagues to textual, other than form, has a note? Please, Beavs.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u257	Adam Ivanovich, I'm sorry, I'd like to ask my colleague to return to my 88th amendment. Because we've taken the offer of Knazevitch into account as part of what's not "according to the pattern," but "according to the form," I'd just like to take it into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u258	Valery Ananiyovich, thank you. But when we voted, I stressed that there would be a form in the law instead of a pattern. So that's what we're counting. Yeah, some more before. The 119th? 119th. Let's see what's at 119? Chicken. The words "head of the courts," yes. Again, Mikhail Vasilovich, agree that there is another law on the system. So you don't have to accumulate. It does not carry the principle of exertion. It is included in another law. Yeah, what are the other adjustments? 116th, please. 116th Amendment, Jojik. Yes, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u259	Jaroslav Jojik, Ukrainian People's Party. Dear colleagues, we have, after all, felt some change in the position of the majority with regard to the individual provisions of the bill. And so we have to use every opportunity to at least improve the quality of this bill a little bit. So it's obvious that if we're now considering an article that regulates the order of disclosure of property, income and expenditure of the most senior citizens of our country, it's extremely important that this information really be public and public. So the point of my proposal was not only on the official printed media, but also on the official website of the General Public Service Office and on the official websites of local authorities and public administrations. So I'm going to ask you to support this amendment, and in this way, at least to reinforce this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u260	116's on the vote. I'd like to make up my mind. [[19:49:02]] For 148 Not counted. So, what's the next amendment? What's that? No, it's 300 miles away. 126th. Yes. It's counted. Please, Knyazevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u261	Dear colleagues, the point is that this amendment is partially taken into account. What are we talking about? There's an editorial detail. It is the order of the storage and use of the information provided for in parts one, third of this article and it is written that is approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, as well as an amendment that takes account of the legal requirements. Since we don't have anywhere in the norm-making practice of the concept of compliance, and we have everywhere the notion of "according to the requirements laid down by law," I think we need to do it here, I think the Ministry of Justice will support, stick to the common canvas, so that we don't create innovations in Ukrainian norm.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u262	There is a proposal to agree without a vote that it is in the entire text that such terminology should be taken into account. It's a terminology, I don't see the need to vote here. Terminologically. It's in the final legal order. There's more to this.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u263	134th. 132nd, Jojik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u264	Jaroslav Jojik, Ukrainian People's Party. Dear colleagues! I'm asking you, Adam Ivanovich, 116th Amendment. So let's say maybe, well, because this is such a hasty situation, I didn't fully argue it. Therefore, when Mikhail Vasilovich confidently raised his hand, which means that most of the questions were changed, not all deputies of most people were able to vote. So I strongly ask you to go back to this 116th amendment. It can really significantly improve the quality of this bill. And I ask Mikhail Vasilovich to be consistent. Thank you. It's not counted.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u265	Jaroslav Ivanovich, Jaroslav Ivanovich, let me explain the situation. He waved his hand because he thought it needed to be confirmed that it was counted. And now, if we start voting, there won't be any votes you've won. Who's to go back to 116, please? [[19:51:58]] For-16 Yeah, the 113th? Now, Yuri Anatolyovich, 113th, let's see. Yes, Carmazine, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u266	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! I'm going to propose a part of the second part of the paper. “Knowledge of property, income, expenditure, financial liability in the past year of the President of Ukraine, the Head of the Supreme Council, the People's Deputies, the Prime Minister, the members of the Cabinet of Ministers, the Head and the Judges of the Constitutional Court, the Head and the Judges of the Supreme Court, the Heads and Judges of the Supreme Court, the Chiefs and Judges of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, the Prosecutor-General of Ukraine and his deputies, the Heads of the National Bank, the Heads of the Court of Auditors, the Heads and Members of the High Council of Justice, the members of the CSEC, the Authorized Supreme Council of Human Rights, the Heads and Members of the High Qualification of Judges, the Heads of the Other State Authorities and their Deputys, members of the Collegial Authorities of the Government, the Heads of the Local Government and their Deputy Ministers. Without specifying the specific addresses of these persons, as well as the location of the property belonging to them, they are subject to annual publication on the official websites of the Ukrainian authorities, where these persons work, or who provide for their activities. You know what we're like.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u267	Thank you. Actually, I don't see anything here that I can't support, I'm putting it to a vote. Yuri Anatolyevich, do you see? () [[B in m in s a l in]] [[19:53:42]] For-13. 134. Now, if you'll excuse me, Sergei. Yuri Anatolyovich, you're absolutely right about openness, when we get there by May 9, we'll be asked, so we'd send what you're reading on the site, well, you see. 104th, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u268	Thank you. 134th Amendment. Adam Ivanovich, see, when we first described article 12, paragraph 1, of article 12, we added that the person who is already working is making a declaration in a form established by law and that there is no such declaration in the fifth. He's making a declaration. What declaration is there for the person claiming to be a classmate? It would be logical to add what is in the form established by this law. What kind of declaration does he make?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u269	The 134th vote. [[19:55:01]] For-16 Not supported. 137 Carmazin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u270	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! In Amendment 137, I propose to complete the article with a new part of this content: "The failure of persons listed in part one of this article to meet the requirements for the date and volume of publication of the information provided for in the declaration is a violation of the law and of the oath. This means that there is a basis for the release of the judge for breaking an oath, which means that there is a basis for the release of both the national deputy and all the total officials. I'm talking to the majority. What's the big deal? If 70 men are the majority, Adam Ivanovich. 70 men! And 26 opposition. It's so that you know how many people are in the room right now. You know what I mean? If that's the majority, I'm talking to the people I called. They're respectable friends if they're not on the site. we don't even put information on the site, so what are we talking about? So let's go back to that.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u271	137 votes. Yuri Anatolyovich, look! [[19:56:36]] For the 18th. Yes, in this way all of the amendments to article 13 have been made, except for the declaration. Let's do the declaration now. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, no, we are. about the article, I mean. Open up, there are, after all, honourable colleagues, declarations. What comments after the declaration? Please, Ivan Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u272	Dear colleagues, chapter one, paragraph one, where the surname, name and parent declaration go, it is indicated that the identification number should be indicated. But under Ukraine's new Tax Code, this number is called the account card registration number. And I'm asking for protocol so that we can enter the declaration in accordance with the new Tax Code.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u273	Yes, I think there's no objection. We don't vote, but refinements are accepted. What other clarifications?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u274	Well, now that we're talking about. Rather than talking about family members, paragraph 4 should be voted on.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u275	So we're already writing "family members" in the declaration.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u276	We have to vote now.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u277	You don't have to vote. We voted that. We're just bringing the family here. Once again, we have close relatives and family members throughout the law. And we agreed how. Yes, what other clarifications? Now, now, now. Ivan Vasilovich doesn't have it. Please, Yuri Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u278	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, in chapter four, in paragraph four, "neighbourly persons" and then in point four, it says "level of communication." Well, let's write at least a "relationship" or something. Well, it says "level of communication." It's like that in a given version, they haven't changed anything. Do you understand?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u279	Yuri Anatolyovich!
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u280	What does the law provide for the law regarding loved ones, let us write about the relationship they have with a person, let a person determine for himself who they are, who they are, who they are, who they are, or who they are, and who they are, and what they are going to be looking at, and what are they going to say about it?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u281	Yuri Anatolyovich, you must have listened. We agreed that there would be family members, and who are members of the family we define in the first part. No, it was the previous one, and we are now making it clear that there will be family members. Please, Knyazevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u282	Adam Ivanovich! I have a whole series of comments, I just won't get in in a minute, if I may, it's very important. First of all, I.D.s.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u283	Be careful.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u284	First, the identification number applies not only to the declarant, but to the family members, and also needs to be corrected in the fourth, that's the first.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u285	Let's fix it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u286	Second, the word "model" on the top changes to the word "form", correct.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u287	We agreed.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u288	And now I have a bunch of notes on the note. Note this in itself.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u289	Come on, wait, please, until the very form of anyone else's remarks, Beavs, please. Then Ruslan do. Please, Valery Fedorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u290	Adam Ivanovich, I'd like to draw attention to chapter IV of the Communication on Transport Means. Dear colleagues, there is such an offer to introduce another year of the release of the vehicle. Some go to Mercedes in 2011, and there's a grandfather who goes to Mercedes in 1961. So I would like to take this into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u291	Ladies and gentlemen, let's go where the characteristics in parentheses are still written in the year of graduation. Characteristics in parentheses below the year of graduation. Don't you mind? Any others before the declaration, no explanation? Please, Zabzaluk. It's a bug.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u292	Adam Ivanovich, chapter III, paragraph 24, "Earthlands". Yet the following actions are not reflected here. We have a lot of cases where there's more land in the lease. For example, 200,000 acres [200,000 ha] of land on 49 and not just. So to predict this and to make it happen, including in a long - term lease. No, it's not. Paragraph "a," see chapter III, 24th. And there is another question, Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u293	Let's take care of the land. We're looking at the 20th paragraph of the first chapter. Income from rent transfer, fixed-term possession. But that's income, that's a little bit different. Let's, if so, be careful, if there's land, a list of objects, we're going to write again, "including those in the lease." Vlasenka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u294	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. You just have to call chapter three, "a" in chapter three, "Mine that's owned, leased by a declarant," and all of that, and all of that is what Deputy Zabzaluk was talking about.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u295	Sergei, not everything, because it's going to move, for example, he owns 20 hundred, where the house is located, and two hectares of pie is in a lease or 20 hectares. Maybe let's split it up in ownership and rent. Can we, Ivan Vasilovich? We can. So we agree that where the land goes, there's going to be either a or b, or one or two owned and leased. Beams.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u296	Adam Ivanovich, the proposal is really correct and I want to say that we have considered this issue on the committee as well, but so on and so forth, although the observations are really serious. So the rent issue has to be applied not only to the land but also to the real estate and to the car transport that I have.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u297	Okay. We agree with Vlastenk's offer that property that is owned and leased and all the way to these land plots and so on, we add property, lease. They agreed, there is no objection. Jojik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u298	Jaroslav Jojik, Ukrainian People's Party. Dear Adam Ivanovich, first of all, I would like to point out that we have consistently referred to the Constitutional Court's decision when it was said that, as part of the property review, the income of the applicant's loved ones to take office is determined that they do not even correspond to the Constitution of Ukraine regarding their loved ones. And at the same time, this form of declaration that we, for example, are offered, at the same time provides for the gathering of information about loved ones. But somehow it predicts that the property, the cost of acquiring this property for the declarant is projected at the expense of which he has incurred it, and at the expense of the loved ones, these acquisitions are not foreseen. I mean, there's some kind of misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u299	Understood, Jaroslav Ivanovich. There are no more loved ones, there are family members. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u300	Adam Ivanovich, according to the logic that we agreed to my proposal in chapter S, paragraph A, the same proposal should be made in chapter S, paragraph B. Well, they are the same, but they are. And the same situation, by the way, we also have in section IU, as I understand in point A. and in point B.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u301	Well, we basically agreed that everywhere there's both property and rent, the committee works everywhere, all over the chapters. Yes, what other comments? Yes, not now, there are proposals even before the text. Please, Knyazevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u302	I have all four points of reference. First. In 1 item there is a list of information that is restricted information. Since, according to the Information and Public Information Act, this information cannot be published, after the word "access", I propose that I complete it with the words "not subject to publication."
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u303	What?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u304	"That they are not subject to publication." It's about identification code, about place of residence and so on, it's a list of things that are information with limited access and cannot be published.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u305	Stop. Do we agree with this? Let's agree. What other comments?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u306	It says in the 2nd paragraph, "Positions like this are filled in if the cost is greater than the number one, you see? "The size of the average monthly wage." See? But "average monthly wage" isn't 1 point, it's 5th. There's a mistake, 1 has to be changed to 5th, because at 1 point it's called "first name, first name, first name." And "average monthly salary" is item 5.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u307	Yeah, but there was a whole different offer, as far as I know. It's not "the size of the salary," it's "the size of the property." Please, Ruslan Petrovich, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u308	But here's the situation. How much we are now talking about size and considering that there is simply a requirement of an appropriate convention that spending should be the same size as setting up the International Organization for the Laundering of Income. And so these are the incomes that can be controlled according to Derjfinmonitoring, and we need to consider the amount that can be controlled by the holding and monitoring so that it doesn't happen that the amount is declared, but it's dead because it's actually impossible to control in practice.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u309	Wait a minute, Valery Ananiyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u310	First. The fact that in the second place we have to agree, there is indeed a technical error, and we need to refer to paragraph five, which refers to the average monthly wage. All purchases outside the average monthly wage should be properly fixed whether it's an account, whether it's a check or something else.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u311	Now, wait, Mishchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u312	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich! I'm in this second position, relative to the size of the average monthly wage, and in what period? If we take the fifth paragraph of chapter III, this is the average monthly salary for the reporting period. It's understandable how much you got for the reporting period of the declaration, and this applies if the cost is greater than once, and how do I know what I'm going to have in a year that I'm going to have an average salary for this year? I'm sure you should say, if you're spending, last year's average monthly wage. For the past. And in the first, during the reporting period, what time? How am I supposed to know what my average monthly salary is for this reporting period?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u313	Beams.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u314	Dear colleagues! The law clearly states that the declarant and his close relatives make appropriate declarations of income and expenditure last year before the first of April of this year. So I don't see any problems here and any more questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u315	Let's work it out together, because I don't understand anything, or. Wait, please. Look, position 2429. Positions 2429 are land plots, residences, apartments, garden and children’s homes, a building, garages, other immovable property. These positions are filled in if the cost is greater than the average monthly wage. How will the land be tied to my salary, please tell me? How does the apartment fit in with my salary, if the apartment is private, and why is the salary here? If there is a garage, why pay? I don't get it. So if there's a garage that costs more than a salary -- 10,000 -- you write that there's a garage. And if there's a garage you didn't pay for and someone gave it to you, you don't write it. It doesn't make sense. Let's work this out. Help me out who this is. Knazevitch. Then Beales.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u316	Adam Ivanovich, here's the logic of those who proposed, because this was suggested by the committee, as I understand it, because I was on this committee, it was: if you're making 10,000 dollars, then all of the purchases of movable and immovable property over 10,000 dollars for you -- you have to declare. If an official earns a thousand dollars, he has to declare all his own, which is more than a thousand. And there's discrimination. Because you can afford that 8,000. Something to buy, and someone gets less, and they can't. That's true, too. And that's why we all have to do the same thing. It's either the average of one month, or the same amount for all of us. Because it can't happen that way, if I'm making a little money, and you're making more money, you can afford more for that. Less declaration, and I have to declare everything that's over a thousand.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u317	Dear colleagues, once again, 24 and 29 points apply: a land plot, a residential building, an apartment, a garden building, a yard, a garage, other immovable property. If the apartment is privatized and not purchased, what, you don't say it here? Do you have it or not? You've got it. And if you follow an explanation, it's not declared, it's not declared, because it's free, it's just declared that it costs more than your salary. And the land you own is free, isn't it? So it's not about him here?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u318	No, so in paragraph 24, information on immovable property, property owned or leased.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u319	And it wasn't bought, the pie wasn't bought, the apartment was privatized, it wasn't purchased.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u320	You don't write anything? All right. So let's do the second point, what do we have to change? Ruslan Petrovich, what did you suggest? Second of all, you had comments.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u321	I suggested that a reasonable amount be set up for the same amount for the entire country as the one that is able to monitor a specially authorized body. Because he monitors all transactions that are cashless and that can be monitored. And if we're just going to put any amount into it and we realize that no one's actually going to check it out, it's a dead norm. So, after consulting with the Derfinmonitoring, as far as I know, there may be a certain amount there, perhaps Minust will indicate a specific amount that they are capable of promoting. And to say that for the whole state, if you buy, of course, over there, 20,000 dollars or 10,000 dollars, or 50 dollars, I don't know, they'll be bought, they'll have to declare. Because everything else, they won't even check it out. So you can write anything.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u322	Beams.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u323	Adam Ivanovich, I mean first. There's an idea of zero. There's something to start with. What you have is already there. And in all the years that followed, all the acquisitions, what Ruslan Petrovich was talking about, it really has to exist. That's the first one. With regard to injustice on the average monthly salary, we apologize for the reality of today. Something can change tomorrow, that's for sure. So the bill stated, and in principle, and the committee suggested that what was involved in the instruction after completion should still be done by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. And we came out that tomorrow we're going to change the minimum wage, the average monthly salary, the minimum wage, the minimum pension, and so on. And the sums here, in this case, can float. So it's not really possible to set a specific amount for today, it's best to get out anyway.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u324	Yeah, okay. Now, let's go back to the sum, but I want to make sure that the people who heard us understand as well. I mean, if a car, an aircraft, or a plane bought in the previous year, it's not declared here. () [[B in m in s a l in]] Wait, wait, I'm asking a logical question. There's a plane, but it's purchased in 2007, the 2011 declaration, so it won't write about the plane? But there's no cost, there's information about transport.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u325	There's no such thing here, there's information about costs. Mishchenka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u326	Thank you. Adam Ivanovich, you have the right logic. You've got it all figured out. You know, this is what GRECO offered, and what you say in the West is definitely what you say, aircraft, real estate, cars, water, aircraft. You don't have to be here in the middle of a month, she always has to declare. It should not be linked to the average monthly wage because if we do, everyone will give to each other tomorrow. And it won't go into the declaration. All right, it's going to be so easy to hide this property that it's very serious. And that's why it's related to another property -- a plasma TV, it's about an antique, a diamond, and something like that. But that's not in the declaration. Do you understand? There's no spending on diamonds or on plasma TV. That's what it takes to pay the average monthly wage or something.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u327	Dear colleagues, it's come to me. I'll explain right now how I understand, maybe you'll agree with me. Maybe we should write that the cost position, the cost position, is the same thing as the cost amount. In order to make it clear that the position is not the whole thing, but what is involved in this position regarding the amount of expenses must be clarified as to the amount of expenditure. One to write in the second sub-paragraph. And the second. Let's back up Knazevitch's position. If I'm not mistaken, we put $50,000 in the FAP's demands. To unify it, let's write down 50,000 dollars. Do we accept this position? Zarubinsky. That's what I mean. That's over 50,000 dollars.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u328	Adam Ivanovich, the FATF requirements applied to the currency equivalent, not what was in the bracelets. And when that was accepted and when those requirements were met, they came out of a completely different ratio of dollars, for example, bracelets.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u329	Yeah, then what's the amount? But it is written in the law. That's the same law that didn't change 50,000, so let's just leave it there. I don't want to. That's over 50,000 dollars. Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u330	Let us then make a decision, as in that law. According to the law on the fight against money laundering.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u331	So let's do this in a way that we're going to write down the amount that's in that fathom law. I think it's 50,000. So once again, we're adding in the second paragraph the word "as to the sum of expenses," and we're giving the sum that's in the law, well, roughly above 50,000 dollars. And let's see what the amount in the law is. Is there no objection to the second? They agreed. Now. Second, they agreed. Second, we speak the language. Did you agree to the second one? They agreed. Third, please. Knazevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u332	Adam Ivanovich, may I have your attention? Adam Ivanovich, may I have your attention? Paragraph three has to be deleted. Why? Because he foresaw that the declaration did not extend to those who were subject to special examination on the basis of a decision of the Constitutional Court in relation to their loved ones. Since you have taken your loved ones and have extended them to family members, this should be removed, for both him and the family members involved in the special examination are being extended.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u333	Thank you. Dear colleagues, do you need more details about the declaration of fulfillment? Then I think the third and fourth points are taken away. Because the fourth point is that the order of completion of the declaration is set by Minfin, you and I have already determined that it is not Minfin. So then there'll be notes from two points. Ivan Vasilovich, understand, there is no more. So we agreed to the declaration. Thus, fellow believers, we can accept the 13th article with you. I'll bet you a vote. With the form of a declaration. 12th, I'm sorry. Excuse me, take down the vote. With what we agreed to the declaration. The declaration, the fulfillment, and the first and second points that we talked about, what there's rent and so on, with what we talked about. It's the 12th vote. [[20:21:22]] For 265 I mean, we're done with the law. Now the final and transitional positions. I'm addressing, my fellow dignitaries, the authors who made the amendments and insisted, so let's go. It's less basic here. Please, Knyazevich, then Mishchenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u334	Adam Ivanovich, the one we are talking about. If you look at the first and second points that ended up at the last column, the first paragraph shows that the law takes effect on July 1, this year. The financial control that we have just voted on, that is, costs should be declared starting at 12. The second paragraph says that as early as July 1, expenditure will have to be declared for 11 years. If we wrote in the first article that this article takes effect on January 1, 12, it means that it will not be necessary to declare expenses until April 13. So either you leave the first point where you write 12 years or you throw out the second. Why do I propose to throw out the other one? Because next year we have an election. And according to the elections, we're going to have to file, as this law stipulates, a declaration in the last year, that is, in the 11th. Let's at least serve for the 11th half.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u335	Dear colleagues! Let us agree with that logic. I still don't recall any law or position filled in six months or a quarter of the declaration. The declaration is always filled in over the previous financial year. So I think it would be very logical to take the second point away. I'll put this motion to the vote. Take down the vote. I repeat.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u336	And we will be submitting the 2011 Declaration to the elections in 2012. Let's do this in a way that this law takes effect as of July 1, 2011, and everything will be clear. Because you have already completed the declaration in 2010 and will not complete it until this law is passed. The law on the completion of declarations and so forth states that in the preceding year. Please, Zarubinsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u337	Adam Ivanovich, this is wrong. In six months, expenses are not calculated. Which means, we have an annual report, we have to know that since January 1, I'm going to buy something and I'm going to take checks in the basket and so on. So the cost is going to be over a year. If the first item has been mentioned since January 1, 2012, it should be extrapolated to the second norm. Then there's no need for a second standard.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u338	Oleg Alexiyovich, distinguished colleagues, I'm sorry, I understand you're tired. But five seconds ago, that's exactly what I was saying. Exactly. Well, what's the point of supporting it? I'm talking about it. Dear colleagues, the law takes effect as of July 1, 2011. Everything else is clear that we will fill out declarations when the law requires them. I'm putting this motion to a vote. Please vote. Take down the vote. The law takes effect on July 1, 2011, and a dot. You will fill out the declaration when the law requires it. You're going to need an election law in 2012 to fill it out, you're going to fill it in 2011. In 2012, by April 1, or May 1, you will complete the 2011 Declaration. What's not clear? Please, tax collector, Vlasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u339	Adam Ivanovich, if it is written that the law enters into force on 1 July 2011, it will mean that by 1 April 2012, all civil servants will have to issue a declaration. This declaration will include both income and expenditure. One of the colleagues said that we haven't documented the cost since January 1st. So we won't be able to include them in the declaration. So we need to make it clear that either we're going to make a declaration by April 1, 2012 in six months, that's the first option. Or two: the declaration enters into force on January 1, 2012, and we will only fill it in since 2013. That's it. Chechatov.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u340	Dear Adam Ivanovich, but really Vlasenko, Mr. Vlasenko told the absolute truth, we should not split the year there for two months, for three. With effect from 1 January 2012, the law will enter into force, and then we will start to count the costs, the revenues, and by 2013, we will give a full declaration in accordance with the law, yes. ( and) [[Noise in the Hall]]
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u341	Beams.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u342	Dear colleagues, really, there are a lot of passions, but still, what the committee has offered, I think it's the most logical. We propose that we put the law into effect as of 1 July of this year, after all the articles except for the 12th article, financial control. As for the 12th article, it begins its work on January 1, 2012. There is one question: Can we make a declaration in six months? Let's not be, but we will work as the same Vlasenko suggests at the full price. But the law has to work since July 1st of the year.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u343	Knazevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u344	What was the idea of July 1st, colleagues, because now we have April? July 1st was to have a few months to prepare and begin to declare their expenses. Because if this is about the 13th, let's put the law into effect today. What's the logic of July 1, why not June 1st? So the logic was to start spending now on July 1st, to expand financial control on the spending side also from July 1st. Therefore, it is important not to delete the second one, but to remove the issue, except for article 12, which takes effect in 2012. Then everything will be fine. He's been picking up since 2011, and he's been spending since July 1st.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u345	School.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u346	Adam Ivanovich, you're an experienced parliamentarian. And there's only a fraction of this room that's now experienced by parliamentarians. Give me a call, please. One Supreme Council law that we passed since September 1st, January 2nd, and so on. We're taking it from next year. This year, from the following new fiscal year. Well, he can't be here. And I'll tell you when it burns, when it's out there from the International Monetary Fund, that's one thing. Well, it shouldn't be the law. And I'm sure the committee on this situation has decided to go straight to the concession. We need to act in a consistent way. Believe me, there are no opponents here. That's the way it's supposed to be. As the Supreme Council has always done, i.e. since the date of publication, if this budget law touches, it's a budget law, it touches people, from the beginning of next year. This year, whatever it takes, it has to work since January 1, 2012. All of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u347	Ephraim. And we'll vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u348	Dear colleagues! We are talking about the law as a whole, and we are talking about the declaration only. When we talk about July-month, we are talking about what should have been the time of the declaration to bring everything into line with the law. And that's why we're talking about July. And we have to be a little abstract. One is the law, the other is the declaration. Therefore, I believe that what is prescribed in the law is prescribed correctly and well thought out.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u349	Dear colleagues, underlining the conclusions of the discussion as an experienced parliamentarian, I propose that we support what is stated in the first and second articles, please vote. That's right.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u350	Vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u351	Vote. [[20:30:54]] For the 250. Thank you. 250. I explain why we voted, "The law takes effect from July 1st, except for article 12, which takes effect from January 1, 2012." Second, in the 2011 declaration of property, income, expenditure, and financial obligations, information on expenditure alone is given from the date of entry into force of this law. All right, let's move on. What other comments? [[B in m in s a l in]] We didn't vote, we didn't come back. No, no, wait, please. Who among the authors who made the amendments, and they are unaccounted for, insists on voting? Mishchenko asked for words. Please, Mischenka. [[B in m in s a l in]] Mr. Mishchenka, you've had some comments, please, on your amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u352	Yeah, right now, just a minute. Amendment 199. Please, 199th.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u353	199th Amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u354	Ivan Vasilovich, I wanted to ask you. Chapter IV: The person who has made a report on the commission of an administrative and corruption offence, at the same time as sending it to court, sends it to the prosecutor, to the public authority, to the local government, to the local authority, to the governing body or to the organization where the person who draws himself to responsibility works. I'm curious about the prosecutor, and all the protocols are sent to him, which are drawn up in this area, where the prosecutor's office is under supervision, or where the person in the prosecutor's office is working for which the protocol is drawn up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u355	Please, Ivan Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u356	I mean, all the protocols.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u357	It suggests that after the word "prosecutor," add "a."".. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please be supportive. We didn't sneak up on anything, don't worry. [[20:33:26]] For 263 Dear colleagues, we don't sneak up, I just do. Each author will come after his amendments, and then - The Digger, you're on your own. Mishchenka, please, what else do you have?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u358	Thank you. And now it makes sense. 204th row. So it's the same thing. If all the records are sent to the prosecutor, he should probably be ordered to review the court’s records. And I'm being rejected because, I'm reading, "the sending of copies of court rulings to the prosecutor's office will only increase the overall paperwork," and the protocols they're sending there won't increase the paperwork? Logically, if a statistician has to have protocols, he should have statistics and decisions made by decrees.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u359	Sergey Grigorovich, you're right. There is a proposal to support the 204 amendment. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u360	We don't think so.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u361	Don't you think?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u362	No, it's not.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u363	Well, it's 204. I'd like to make a statement. The committee didn't support it. [[20:34:42]] For -14 Oh, it's gonna be something to shape. Yes, Sergey Grigorovich, what are your other adjustments? None. Yes. Then, please, the Correction Digger. She's hot.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u364	Adam Ivanovich, I'm asking a colleague, so I have 31 more amendments. And I insist on looking into each one.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u365	I'm sorry, I didn't hear you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u366	I still have 31 amendments to this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u367	You call every amendment and we'll vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u368	Okay. Okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u369	Let's start with what?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u370	And I'd just like to turn to everyone. Here we are, amended to articles 172 to 158, 159. And that's exactly what it's about? We were looking at a judge today who was told something about 100 bracelets. And we're starting to have a liability of 5 untaxed minimums, which today is 470 dollars, that is, 2 thousand 352 bracelets. It therefore proposed in amendment 158 that the words "which does not exceed 5 non-taxable minimum citizens' incomes" should be replaced by the words "that does not exceed one non-taxable minimum of citizens." So there aren't these different standards of doubles and approaches.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u371	158 votes. I'd like to make up my mind. [[20:36:14]] For-12. That's about the 159th. Yes, please, Prokopchuk's microphone. Please. What's your next one?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u372	I refer in general to those who have the idea of a right. The draft law provides for administrative responsibility for obtaining wrong benefits, and for offering and granting wrong benefits, not exceeding 100 non-taxable minimum citizens' income. [[Article 172, footnote 2 of the Code of Administrative Offences]] [[This is article 172 with footnote 3]] For the wrong benefit, an illegal gain of 100 or more untaxed minimum incomes of citizens is expected to impose criminal liability. Article 368, paragraph 2, of the Criminal Code. It is logical to establish criminal responsibility for offering or giving undue benefit at the specified scale. However, the law does not provide for the addition of the Criminal Code by such an article. There is an absurd absolute situation. For giving undue benefit or for giving it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u373	Go on, please. I'll get the microphone. Prokopchuk's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u374	What this situation is. Please listen. If the proposal isn't taken into account, it's paradoxical, once again, an absurd situation. For giving the wrong benefit, whose offer of up to 100 untaxed minimum citizens' income, the person will be responsible for administrative responsibility, and he will not be held accountable for giving or offering such a benefit in the amount of 100 or more. Look, there's really something like this. And the removal of the existing reference may also be by replacing part two of article 172 with footnote two of the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences of Words: "that does not exceed 100 non-taxable minimums of citizens' income" with the words "to the size of 5 or more untaxed" of the same minimum. Look again, listen, understand. It really is.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u375	Yuri Volodymyrovich, what amendment do we vote on?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u376	I've already looked at everyone, they go there systematically and they repeat themselves. I don't want to make 31 amendments now, which I won't.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u377	I see. Dear colleagues, you've heard the argument of Prokopchuk Yuri Volodymirovich. Here are all the amendments made to Prokopchuk that apply to articles 172 prime. 2, 172 prime. 3 Voting is an option. I'd like to make up my mind. [[20:39:27]] For -14 Yes, who else were the authors who made the amendments? None. Yeah? Well, then, dear fellows, I'll bet. Chechatov.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u378	Adam Ivanovich, please vote on the 337th amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u379	337th Amendment. I found her. Mikhail Vasilovich, please accept that this is what we told you about the system. It's not a legal burden, you can agree with the committee. That's how. And 116th. Thus, my honourable colleagues, I put to the vote the proposal for acceptance in the second reading and in the whole of the Final and Transitional Regulations. Please vote. [[20:40:54]] For 265 Copy that. Now, dear colleagues, considering that you and I have determined that close relatives have a bearing on subordination in the ministry, taking into account what we have determined that family members, and have defined family members, have a bearing on the declaration, taking into account what we have given you and me. in the first article, define the term for an official. in the case of an official. a legal person of public law, given that you and I have approved the form of a declaration and its completion, bearing in mind that we have just accepted with you the Final and Transitional Statutes, I am voting on the proposal for adoption in the second reading and in general as the law of the Registration Act 7487 "On Principles for Preventing and Resisting Corruption in Ukraine." Please vote. [[20:42:19]] For 277 Thank you, the law has been passed. Dear colleagues! I'm addressing and giving a protocol commission to the profile committee and the legal department, to make legal revisions taking into account what we've accepted, so there's a "form" everywhere, and so on and so forth. That's the first one. And the second. When preparing for signature to be divided into two laws, one will be a law to prevent corruption and another will be a law to amend the laws of Ukraine. Please vote for this proposal. Vote. Excuse me, excuse me, take down the vote. Please don't take the ducks, I haven't closed the session yet, and we'll have another vote, please insert the cards. Ready? I'm looking at 300 cards are ready. Not yet? 309, 310. I'm voting on a motion for legal editing, and I've already talked about dividing the laws into two. Please vote. "For." [[20:44:06]] For 262 Thank you. Copy that. Casualty, please. Thank you, Ivan Vasilovich, for your courage in standing and thanking John Vasilovich, and the committee for having, indeed, carried out our commission faithfully when we considered the previous one. Please, Gregory Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u380	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! The similarity of the terms used in this bill, which I reported, with other laws led to some readjustment, and so the discussions with the authors of the proposal found their solution. Therefore, I would like to repeat once again the agreed standard of article 3 of the bill, the last paragraph of the text. Costs derived from the sale of cereals and processed products at auctions are accumulated on a separate government budget and are used to provide State support for agricultural development, namely to compensate producers for the sowers of Greece for 30 percent and other 70 percent. As well as the Final Position, paragraph 1, this law takes effect from the date of its publication and is in effect until July 1, 2011. This is an agreed position that can be confirmed by those who have acted under this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u381	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have moved from corruption to the village. What are we talking about? You and I have considered the bill 8324 – a bill to amend some Ukrainian laws to ensure State support for agricultural development. We accepted it in the first reading, we wanted to take it in, and our colleagues had comments. Now these remarks have been withdrawn, and Ivan Grigorovitch confirms that he does not have these observations. That is why we have reason to vote as a whole as a law, Act No. 8324 amending certain laws of Ukraine to ensure State support for agricultural development. Please vote. [[20:46:22]] For 264 Thank you, the law of acceptance. Yes, dear colleagues, I understand that we will no longer be working today. I thank you for understanding, support, wisdom, tolerance, sorry, I won't be like this anymore. At this meeting of the Supreme Council. No, it's Carmazine's line. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u382	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I haven't heard from more than 20 amendments since you won't listen. I think the time will come, and you and I will see that, as we have today amended the Tax Code, when we see what mistakes have been made, so will we now. People are already calling and saying, "Well, how are you going to put the law into effect as of 1 and you're doing it by declaration as of 1 July. That's why I want to say that, Adam Ivanovich, you said that we wanted to protect someone, or Carmazin wanted to protect someone when he demanded that they cancel the ridiculous standards. No, it's not. I demand and now that we publish, you can do it as the first deputy head. Make sure all the declarations are made on the Supreme Council's website: and the leadership of the Supreme Council, and the national MPs. I urge you to do so. It's going to be something.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-04-07-m1.u383	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. I think we'll listen to you without law. At this evening's meeting of the Supreme Council, I declare closed. Let's fight for the Kyiv Dynamo.
