ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-18-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:01:39]] Cards were registered in the 388 National Deputies Sessional Hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of the national deputy Gorbal Vasil Mikhailovich, who was 40 years old. Please welcome our colleague and wish him good health! [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, I give you information on the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the plenary meetings on 17 March 2011. 29 issues of the agenda have been considered. As a result of their consideration, 10 laws and 9 regulations have been passed. 3 Bills adopted as a basis. One bill and one draft decree have been converted to the drafting of the right of legislators. One bill has been sent back to the committee for further processing and is then submitted for re-reading. 7 bills and one draft decree have been rejected. Honourable National MPs, two factions -- the "BOUT" faction -- "Fatherhood" and the "Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense" faction demand a recess to hold consultations on day-to-day issues and to make statements. At the same time, the factions agree to make an immediate statement on why they proposed a break. Please, Andrew Cosemiakin. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-18-m0.u2	Attention! Dear citizens of Ukraine! Dear colleagues! The Timoshenko Block, "The Fatherland", its leader has repeatedly demanded immediate action by the authorities to curb the rapid growth of inflation, prices of goods and services, loss of wages, pensions, scholarships, other social benefits. And today our society can finally see -- when there's galloping inflation in the country, the ever-increasing rise in prices for essential food products, tariffs, electricity, fuel, most in the Supreme Council of Ukraine is really concerned only with the redistribution of power. This is happening at a time when 90 percent of our citizens are on the verge of poverty. The government cannot hold back the steady rise in prices even for food, the primary need. Bread is disappearing from the shelves of shops, and Ukraine is constantly slipping into a new, even more devastating crisis. In fact, the government lost control of processes in the state. The government of Azarova reports that 9 percent of inflation has been overturned, convinced that life has become better, and that life has become more fun. But real indicators are completely different. Independent experts estimate that the country’s inflation rate for 2010 was at least 42 percent. And it's very clear that in a year of operation, food prices have reached record peaks. Greece traveled by 300 percent, milk by 150, vegetables by 40 percent. In 2009, when our country was experiencing the extremely difficult consequences of the global financial and economic crisis, Timoshenko's government paid salaries, pensions, scholarships, all social benefits. The price of tariffs for the population did not rise. There was no problem with food. Those who were then in opposition, and most of them today, at this difficult time at every turn, put sticks in the wheel of government. They blocked Parliament for months and tried to block the work of the Timoshenko government at any cost. Today, though, when things get worse with everyone. And our nation is on the verge of an even more terrible crisis, most of which is occupied by the derebent of authority. Parliamentary majority are blind and deaf before the Ukrainian people live. The population's ability to pay is failing, and the Supreme Council adopts laws on insider information, on birds, on their own resources, creates TSK at 15 years of age. And where Livelly's profits went, which, without taxes and taxes, imported the import fuel into Ukraine, earned 3 billion dollars; how they organized the competition, and who they sold it to -- nobody cares. Today, the plenary week ends, and the deputies leave for two weeks, and no one needs them. That's why our faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-18-m0.u3	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-18-m0.u4	That is why the Faction "BUT – "Paternity" insists on a first-hand review of the bill on the indexation of pensions, wages and social benefits at the level of inflation. It provides for automatic increases in pensions, wages, other social benefits in line with real inflation. We demand the executive power, the majority of us in Parliament are dealing with social problems and making decisions that guarantee the constitutional right of Ukrainian citizens to a decent standard of living. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-18-m0.u5	Thank you. Honorable National Deputies, we turn to the issues set out on Friday, March 18. Today, honourable national deputies, according to the proposal of the deputy faction "Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense", which was supported by the Conciliation Council, and according to the decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted on Tuesday, the Supreme Council of Ukraine will hear information from the Head of the Fund of State Property of Ukraine, Alexander Volodymyrovic, on the privatisation of public property objects in 2010-2011. Honourable People's Deputies, Deputies of the Party of the Regions, the Yulia-Timoshenko-Bakkashina Block, Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense Block, the Communist Party of Ukraine, the People's Party and the MP's Group on Reforms for the Future, have asked questions in advance to the Head of the National Property Fund of Ukraine. Therefore, honourable colleagues, this procedure is proposed, the "hours of questions" rule. For information, give the Head of the State Property Fund up to 20 minutes. Next: 20 minutes are the answers to written questions, and 20 minutes are the answers to questions directly from the National Deputies, either to the Head of the State Property Fund, or to the present members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Ask a question in one minute, answer a question in two minutes. No warning? Agreed. Yes. Please, I invite you to the rostrum of Rybchenk Alexander Volodymyrovich, Head of the State Property Fund of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-18-m0.u6	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Deputies! Dear members of the government! Ladies and gentlemen! The new management of the State Property Fund began carrying out its duties in April 2010. The situation in the State Property Fund at that time was marked by a significant decline in the activity of privatization authorities, triggered by long-term government opposition and the struggle to influence the State Property Fund. The dynamics of privatization processes in the four months of 2010 declined almost twice against the same periods of previous years. During this time, 156 million dollars were added to the budget, representing only 2.4 tens of a year’s work. The rental of government property has decreased substantially. The weakening of corporate governance has led to a substantial decline in dividend incomes against the same period of the past years, an increase in debt from the wages of the Enterprise Trust Fund. There has been a weakening of control over the performance of investment commitments by investors who have acquired public property. This, in turn, led to an increase in unrealized investment commitments. The State Privatization Program project developed by the Fund was rejected by the Supreme Council as one that does not meet the requirements of time. The first task of the new Fund’s management under these conditions was to simultaneously address both operational issues related to the revitalization of the 2010 plans and to develop strategies for the work of privatization bodies. In the operational order, there was a strengthening of staff capacity in the main areas of work, enhanced executive discipline, and an analysis of the progress of the Fund’s current work. This made it possible by the end of the year to significantly improve the dynamics of privatization processes, improve the efficiency of corporate governance and the quality of leases. Despite the substantial backlog of the first four months of the last year as a whole from the privatization of state property, the state budget has reached 1 billion 93 million dollars, 1.4 times higher than in 2009, and 2.3 times higher than in 2008. The Fund's extensive organizational work in preparation for privatization has allowed a solid foundation to be laid for the implementation of the planned tasks in 2011 and the following years. A thorough audit of the reasons for the failure to sell government property in recent years has been made. Designed, compared with past years, the 2011 task is both large - and small - scale privatization and unfinished construction. Together with the Ministry of Economics, other implementing ministries have prepared a draft of changes to the list of objects that are not allowed to be privatized. Attention was focused primarily on those who suffer from shadow ownership schemes or who have become damage due to the lack of investment on the part of the owner. According to our 2011 estimate, 10 billion dollars will be spent in the first half of this year. If the privatisation cost was 67 million dollars in 2 months 2010, over 1 billion dollars in the same period in 2011. More than three times the income from dividends and corporate rights of the state increased by a quarter from the rent. At the same time, with the privatisation of state property, the regional offices of the Fund have stepped up their work to assist local authorities in the sale of utilities. The number of such objects and sales volumes increased almost twice as high as in 2009. Positive developments have taken place since April of last year and in other directions of the State Property Fund. Debts on the wages of corporate sector employees in the government of the State Property Fund have decreased. The dividend assignment has been overrun by 2.3 times. By increasing the demands of the privatization bodies to investors, the volume of investment in privatized enterprises exceeds. The coming of 2007-2008 is 1.4 times the equivalent of 4.5 billion dollars. The pretentious work of violators of investment commitments has improved significantly. The number of fines increased almost twice during 2009. As a result of increased requirements for renters, the backlog of the first months of 2010 has been substantially reduced in terms of the cost of renting state property. This was also facilitated by the fund’s initiative to increase the lowering factor set at the time of the crisis to rent rates. However, a completely depreciating factor has not yet been removed. The Fund has given considerable attention to the work of those tenants who are in time to pay rent for the use of state property. More systematic work has been done to pay off the rent and reinforce the corresponding impact. According to the State Budget, fines amount to nearly 8 million dollars, more than two previous years. An example is the return by the Fund through the Special Supervisory Commission of the Supreme Council of privatization from the rental of the entire Coal Industries complex, because the leased relationship was very ineffective. In the course of a lengthy legal dispute, it was possible not only to terminate the lease but also to borrow from former tenants of the lease, as well as from the employee’s wages for the lease period. Much work has been done by the State Property Management Fund, which has not been part of the statutory capital of agricultural societies. It should be noted that by the end of 2010, there were more than 38,000 such objects. After 1 out of every 4 of these objects last year, checks were made on the preservation and proper use of this property. Nearly 2,400 infringements have been detected by farm societies regarding conservation requirements, with specific measures taken to eliminate them. In the process of organizing these facilities, 1,115 of them are transferred to utility property, 466 are privatized, 82 are leased. The central apparatus of the fund and its regional offices are estimated at 35,000,261 reports on the valuation of state property and 113 reports on the valuation of municipal property. The work revealed 556 reports that had significant shortcomings and were rejected or aimed at reprocessing. In 2010, with the participation of the State Property Fund, 344 new evaluators and 1 thousand 29 evaluators were prepared and admitted to work on the market. At the same time, 268 evaluation certificates have been cancelled, 936 evaluation certificates have been suspended, and 936 evaluation certificates have been suspended, to individuals who have not been trained or who have violated other evaluation requirements in a timely manner. The registers of evaluators and evaluators were maintained. But we realize that only organizational measures and increased responsibility are not enough to improve the quality of the evaluation. Many issues of evaluation are within the scope of legal regulation. Therefore, the National Property Fund, with the participation of market participants, has developed the concept of a new edition of the Evaluation Act, which is currently being worked on by the Economic Policy Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Once this concept is approved by the government and the committee, the fund will immediately begin to prepare on the basis of the relevant draft law. During the reporting period, the State Property Fund intensified its work with the Supreme Council and its committees, the deputy factions. In particular, his representatives took part in 33 meetings of the Supreme Council, reporting nine times at meetings of a special review committee. Along with government officials and national deputies, we have been working on 67 drafts, responding to 290 appeals and 13 requests from national MPs. The Fund’s employees took part in 45 working committees organized for appeals by national deputies, monitoring and law enforcement agencies, which needed rapid response and departure. Pretentious lawsuits for the protection of the interests of the State have been activated. Today, more than 2,000 cases are being brought by representatives of privatization agencies. Positively, the state ended its dispute after long-standing litigation over the privatisation of the Lugansk Heat Transport VAT package. Here the Fund has reached a fundamental settlement of all issues, a condition of an appropriate peace agreement will ensure that the State retains some $11 million of the United States budget. In court order, the fund put an end to the efforts of non-residents to establish a non-Ukrainian legal order and to circumvent the requirements of national legislation in the area of privatization. State privatization bodies in the appeals court have demonstrated the need for mandatory application by foreign individuals of the requirements of national legislation in Ukraine in part of privatisation processes. Among the cases handled by the Fund are cases of great social resonance, such as those involving the privatization of hostels. In our view, the inclusion of hostels in the statutory capital of privatized enterprises leads to a violation of the constitutional right to housing of their residents. The fund has already eliminated 36 dormitories in a series of societies, and 200ths of them are pending litigation. But the fund is very concerned that since the end of last year the judiciary has taken into account the Supreme Court Order of 8 November 2010, by which the Supreme Court has virtually turned the case 180 degrees. With high probability in the near future, it is possible to expect further social exacerbation on this issue. I will point out that the position of the Fund on the legality of the privatization of hostels remains unchanged. We firmly oppose the privatization of hostels by all but those who live in them. During the privatisation process, the State has entered into more than a thousand 300 investment contracts for privatized enterprises. As a result, privatized enterprises received over 18 billion dollars of investment. At the same time, the Fund is very careful to investigate any breach of the commitments made by investors. For a gross breach by individual investors of such obligations, 292 privatization facilities have already been restored to government property, and 124 more contracts continue to involve pretentious lawsuits. 153 objects have been sold over and over again. It should be noted that the return of privatization objects to state ownership in the event of purchasers' infringements of the terms of the sale contracts is made solely in court. A few words about the socio-economic aspect of privatization. The change in ownership of more than 100,000 small privatization objects has created conditions for market competition in trade, domestic services, construction, and small business development. An economic analysis of the work of privatized small businesses shows that more of them have a positive developmental dynamic and consumer-oriented market. Privatization has created more than 11,000 equity companies that have become the basis for the creation of a national stock market, and the best shares form attractive tools for the accumulation of the pension system. During the years of privatization, the State budget has received over 43 billion dollars. In doing so, it should be borne in mind that the first five years of privatization were essentially free of charge, for privatization and compensation certificates. At the same time as the current privatization plans are being implemented, the Fund's management is paying considerable attention to improving the methodological framework for privatization and its strategy. A working group has been formed that has developed the foundations of such an important chapter of the 2010-2014 Economic Reform Programme "A Rich Society, a Competitive Policy – an Effective State" as the chapter "Privatisation and Governance of State Property". On a new basis, a new privatization programme was developed by 2014. The new programme takes into account the accumulated experience of the past years and aims to eliminate all the shortcomings that are inherent in the current privatisation programme for the years 2000-2002, which is undoubtedly outdated. The implementation of the new programme allows for the completion of privatization in Ukraine as a large-scale socio-economic project on the transformation of state ownership. An important conspiracy is to harmonise privatization processes with the strategy of national economic development and individual sectors. It is important to note that the new programme has been developed in a package with the necessary changes to the privatization laws, which guarantees the legal basis for its implementation as soon as it is approved. Now this program is being developed with a fund that takes into account the government's observations and suggestions and is being considered. In the near future, the program is expected to be sent to the Supreme Council. We believe that its adoption will allow for the greatest possible reduction of the subjectivity in privatization and ensure transparency, openness, public access to privatization processes. The introduction of privatization of sites along with land areas involves non-agricultural land, and the industrial enterprises in which they are located will not only improve the investment climate in Ukraine and the guarantee of the investor, but will also allow for an increase in the cost of the state and local budget. Most of the funds received from the privatization of state property are expected to target the financing of socio-economic infrastructure projects, priority innovation and science and technology programmes. The adoption of the programme will ensure the transition to the policy framework for privatization in the strategic sectors of the economy, a scientifically sound privatization of the public sector. It should be noted that the implementation of the new approaches to privatization, interaction with authorities and the public, which are envisaged by the State, requires greater institutional capacity of privatization authorities. Realizing this, the fund’s management developed a new law on the State Property Fund. To date, the draft law has been processed with ministries and offices and, after harmonization with the approved Supreme Council, the laws amending the Cabinet of Ministers Act and the central executive authorities will be submitted for consideration by the government. Thus, with the adoption of the State Privatisation Programme, the State Property Fund Act creates all the institutional and legal principles to improve the quality of privatization and the performance of its functions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-18-m0.u7	Fellow dignitaries, head of the State Property Fund, completed the presentation. I'm asking you to sign up. More specifically, let us now ask written questions. Please, I would ask you then, in turn, from each faction to one question and round and round we go. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-18-m0.u8	The faction of the Party of the Regions. "Was there any particular interest of foreign investors in changing the terms of the contract for the sale of the VAT package to the Shredder?"".. Of all the foreign investors who are known for their strategically important businesses, the fund was approached exclusively by Turksel from Turkey, who proposed to continue the competition with the privatisation of the Shrine for 120 days. We said no, because the law does not provide for a continuation of competitions after it's announced, on any day, otherwise it's the subject of litigation and the fund would lose such cases in court. Because of this contest, as it were announced for 70 days, it was over. The Timoshenko Block is the Fatherland. "What's causing the fund's inaction in ensuring compliance with antitrust legislation in privatization processes, because off-shore companies participate in privatisation competitions, especially strategic objects?" Information does not match reality. According to the legislation of companies registered in offshore zones and countries assigned to FATF to a list of countries that do not cooperate in the area of anti-money-laundering obtained by criminal means, they cannot be allowed to participate in the competition. We don't have any chance that an offshore or anti-FATF company will be allowed to participate in the competition. The faction “Our Ukraine is the People’s Self-Defense”. "Why has the Cabinet of Ministers not yet submitted to Parliament a draft State Privatisation Programme 2011-2014, although the government planned to consider the approval of the privatization programme in mid-December 2010 and the Special Privatisation Monitoring Commission in early February 2011 requested that this process be accelerated? What has made the management of the State Property Fund possible for this key document to be submitted to Parliament?" This document is very important, discussed in September between the central executive authorities. He is now assigned by the Cabinet of Ministers to work in accordance with the adopted laws on the system of central executives and on the Cabinet of Ministers, the Ministry of Economics, and I think that in the near future, he is already, in fact, in line with all the ministries, going to meet with the government and be given to Parliament. The faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine: "What concrete measures does the Fund of State Property of Ukraine take to protect the interests of the state share capital against raids to effectively prevent the theft of state property? As an example, the situation in the equity company of the Orion Industrial Engineering Association. [[Odessa City]] Indeed, government property is always an object of interest to the raiders. The State Property Fund is taking appropriate steps to restore state control to enterprises that have already been attacked by raiders. A brilliant example is the Odessa Machine Construction Association Orion. Since 2004, it has been under raiders, and during this time the company’s assets have been illegally confiscated, the stockholders’ register lost, the stalled manufacturing activity, and the production equipment exported and destroyed. Together with the Special Committee on Privatization and the Interministerial Commission of the Fund and together the State Securities Commission managed to normalize the operation of the enterprise, to take control of the state. Now we have a reverse stock control package, it's our, uh, state, 50 percent plus one, the suspension of the company's stock registers, and it's run by legitimate congregations, it's run by the stockholders' company. This is going in order, and it's even been able to bring back early from the illegally alienated 16-story building of Orion's medical and health complex to the property of society. Faction of the People's Party: "Will it be submitted for approval by the State of the Privatization Program for 2011?" It's the same thing you've asked. It will certainly be presented, and I hope that in the near future it will be a government sent to Parliament, because, in fact, the previous discussion is over. It's a faction. Deputy Group on Reforms for the Future: "How has the privatisation of the Shrimp recently taken place affect the level of tariffs and the provision of communications services to the population?".. This question often arises in the media. What I'm saying is that the owner of the Shrimp State, or the private State, has nothing to do with setting tariffs. This is the authority of NHRIs and NHRIs sets the tariffs used by the Crucifixor. As he set up for the state's Shrimp, he'll set it up for private purposes. In addition, "Smarthead" as a monopoly is further controlled by the Antimonopoly Committee. The faction of the Party of the Regions, "How much ground does the requirement of not being allowed to participate in a competition for the sale of a package of shares to the Shrimp Company, in which the share belonging to the State of Ukraine or to other States exceeds 25 percent in statutory capital?".. A 25 percent limit is a direct requirement of article 8 of the Law on Privatization of State Property. And we think it's absolutely fair that this requirement is equal to both Ukrainian enterprises and foreigners. Any enterprise, but the conditions have to be equal: you have more than 25 percent of statutory capital -- you're not taking part in privatization. Faction "BUT" is "Paternity." "The Kiivenergo, Dniproenergo, Centrenergo has been removed from the list of strategic enterprises. What this approach is called for is the rush to privatize the listed objects, and do you realize that the loss of control by the State of the listed objects will mean the impossibility of further State influence on tariff policies in this sector, which will make consumers vulnerable and vulnerable. about energy security?".. I'll tell you what, these objects are going to leave a 25 percent stake in government property. Similarly, tariff policy is not the responsibility of Kievenergo, Dniproenergo, or other producers of electricity or district energy companies. We have NCRE, which sets all prices and tariffs in the field of energy. The faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". "How, without the State Privatization Program 2011-2014. Can the holding fund and the government rule out arbitrary changes to the list of privatization objects?".. My point is that the list of sites for privatization of strategically important enterprises is confirmed by the government’s decision, as well as by plans for the deployment of strategically important enterprises. Other objects are approved by the State Property Fund and this is a public process, and there can be no arbitrary changes, because the order for changes is legally fixed, and otherwise to make changes just as established by the regulations, is impossible, because the fund will immediately be stopped in court and loses court proceedings. The faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. "In the area of government property, we only see one-sided processes: essentially privatization of state property. Is it not time to put in place a mechanism for nationalizing enterprises whose owners are inefficiently managing them, releasing workers, reducing production, or even destroying basic funds?".. I want to tell you that for all enterprises that have been privatized since about 2010, this problem does not exist because there is a responsible owner for the business that bought the stock package, he made a sale deal with the State Property Fund. If he doesn't do this deal, then the fund is in court, as I told you, is suing a sales agreement, the court decides that this agreement is not real and the object is going back to state property. But there are problems with businesses that were privatized in the early 1990s during certification privatization, which are impossible in court, really, legislative decisions and court decisions to return to state property. And here's the problem of returning them if the owner is completely out of control. At the same time, there is article 41 of the Constitution, which establishes that a return from social necessity, in accordance with the established law, from private property to public property, may be made on the condition that they are previously and fully compensated. This is a very complex norm, which makes the process of returning these objects, when pre-reparation is needed, technologically very difficult and financially very burdensome for the State. The faction of the People's Party. "What amount of proceeds to the state budget of Ukraine are planned from the privatization of public property objects in the current year and 2012-2013?".. The State Budget Act 2001 plans to come from privatization to the state budget of 10 billion dollars, and for the coming years, the economic reform programme for 2010-2014 is planned for about 10 billion dollars per year of government revenue. The MP's Reforms for the Future. "Is it worth the crisis to privatize large state-owned enterprises?".. We think that in times of crisis, large state enterprises are the most impressive, it's very difficult to access credit resources, and they're the first candidates for bankruptcy, perhaps even for the destruction of such enterprises. They need investment in another way than bringing an investor to this enterprise, there is no economic opportunity to support it. The government’s decision has led such enterprises to become privatized. And I want to tell you that in a crisis we're out of business, we even have more references to the requirement to be able to bring an investor into business immediately. The faction of the Party of the Regions. "What is the projected cost of energy-generating companies that the government is planning to put on sale?".. There are still no decisions that specific companies will be put on sale in the current year, but the total capitalization of four energy-generating companies, if they only take what is due to the state and estimate the capitalization on the Fund's market, is 13 billion dollars. The Timoshenko Yulia Block is the Fatherland. "What measures are being taken by the government and the fund to ensure that the cost of privatization is not spent on eating or financing the current budget. When will more than 100 unannounced drafts be introduced regarding the establishment of an innovation and investment model in Ukraine?".. Legislation is now that the state budget determines that all the money from privatization comes into the state budget of Ukraine and there is no other option. At the same time, in the new privatization programme in the project that will be implemented into the government, we anticipate and propose a rule to support Parliament: that no less than 50 per cent of the cost of privatization should be directed towards investment and economic development. The "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense" faction. "Do you think it's normal to sell such a unique business as "The Shrimp" practically without a single buyer's competition at a price that is only 0.7 percent different from the starting price? Experts and market participants suggested that privatisation conditions were deliberately discriminatory for other potential contestants. What measures will be taken by the State Property Fund and the government to prevent individual employees from being transferred to the State People's Fund. Information has already been received that the owner of the Shredderkom customer company was the unknown Cypriot offshore company." That's a good question. In recent times, such information has been made available to the media. I have to tell you that when ESU's subsidiary Epic filed the privatisation documents, along with how it regulates the submission of documents, a control system is given to whom and across the control system it is found that the buyer belongs to a Cyprus company, and the Cyprus company belongs to an Austrian company, and the Austrian company belongs to five Austrian citizens, their names are there, and the distribution of the Statute Fund is also there. So because of a Cyprus company that is not unknown, the buyer of an Austrian citizen is owned. It's a faction. I'm sorry, yes. [[B in m in s a l in]] The real owner is five names from the Austrian Republic. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'll give you an answer. There'll be questions and I'll answer you after I'm done. You're gonna do it. The faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Do you think so? Oh, sorry, that. The faction of the People's Party. "Please explain the terms of the competition and the contract for the purchase and sale of a package of Shretelek shares belonging to the State. Did the buyer take on investment commitments and in what amount?".. We have already commented on the terms of the competition. Of course, they are well - known. Investment commitments are made by the buyer. I want to tell you, in terms of the information that the state will get for selling a telecom of 10 billion 575 million, and the buyer has to actually pay 16 billion dollars for this company, because in addition to the 10 billion 500 million that go into the state budget, there is still a debt owed to the Shrimp – 160 million dollars and 3.7 billion dollars to be paid to the new owner. So that's 16 billion. Also among the commitments that the new owner has to make to fund the creation of a state specialty system in the next two years. This is for his money. The faction of the Party of the Regions. "What funds does the fund pay to stock markets as value-traders for selling government stock packages?".. We don't pay anything to stock exchanges. For us, it's free, and when you privatize on the stock market, the buyer pays the stock market 1 percent of the amount that he bought the stock package, that's the value of the stock exchange services. The Timoshenko Yulia Block is the Fatherland. "The State Property Fund's published indicative list of companies whose shares will be offered for sale in 2011 does not contain large enterprises, such as Turbot, Odeski Prystow, Hartron." Does this mean that Ukraine will not see them for sale in 2011, or does the government prepare them for sale on a special list?".. I want you to know there can't be special lists. They all have to be on the same list. If the object is not included in the list of companies scheduled for sale, it cannot be privatized and a contest cannot be announced. I think on Turboatoma, the issue of privatization in the current year is not relevant, it's a good company, it's profitable, it's an order for the next few years and there's no point privatizing such an object. It has a normal distribution: 75 percent belongs to the State, 25 percent belongs to private shareholders. And we need to stick to this level. As far as Odessa’s driveway is concerned, the situation is more complex. But neither can there be any haste, and such privatization can take place only after the situation is clear that this enterprise is in dire need of investment and cannot develop at the expense of its own and borrowed funds. There is no such situation so far, so there is no announced privatization of the Odessa Port Facility. The faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". "Why was the government stock package of Ukrainian International Airlines sold at 61-58 percent without a start-up price contest? Was it undervalued, or did a buyer who had long owned another MAU stock package, at any cost to the company? Why were more reliable and responsible buyers not considered?".. I want to tell you that the fifth point of the State Privatization Program is that this object of Group E, this is our stock package in the statutory capital of the MAU, and this is the standard. The privatisation of acts, particles, rations belonging to the State in statutory capitals of households, including enterprises with foreign investments, is carried out in accordance with the establishment of the documents of these enterprises in order determined by the Antimonopoly Committee Fund. The statutes set out the primary right to ransom by shareholders, and they did not refuse. If they refused, any stock package they were entitled to would be put on auction. And there would be all the buyers who want to offer a higher price, but the law doesn't give us that right without agreeing with the shareholders.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-18-m0.u9	Now let's move on to the questions directly from the national MPs. Dear colleagues, please sign up for a question to the Head of the State Property Fund. It's recording. Please report to the National Deputies. Gennady Samofalov, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-18-m0.u10	I'd like to give the floor to my colleague Chechtev.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-18-m0.u11	Mikhailo Chechetov, microphone. () [[B in m in s a l in]]
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-18-m0.u12	Dear colleagues, we have heard objective information about the work of the fund and indeed about the price of objects, not in the Soviet Union, when we lived when the oil of 3.40 was both in Luhansk and in Kharkiv and in Kiev and yesterday and today. And in market conditions, the price is variable. Three years ago, a one - room apartment in Kiev cost $100,000 minimum, and today 33 can be bought, three times cheaper. Nothing changed, the apartment stood still, and it was three times cheaper. The same applies to objects. That's why I have a very clear question for you. Tell me, please understand that to date this is the real price for which the Shrimp was sold. If only in their own time, when the price peaked a few years ago, they were selling. What was the real price at the time, and how many States could have received if politicians had not prevented the normal sale of "Silenceman".
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-18-m0.u13	There were actually better years to privatize the Shrimp when the price was much higher. The highest price that was in Crucifixion at the beginning of 2008 is $5 billion. It was market equity. And if there was a sale at that time, the state would get that much. But unfortunately, the situation has changed, and the prospects for "Smallhead," if an investor doesn't enter it and there's no serious investment, it's assessed as not very attractive to the owner, to the state. He'd be a loser in the coming years. He's a loser right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-18-m0.u14	Yes, Volodymyr Bondarenko, "BUT" faction, "Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-18-m0.u15	Vladimir Bondarenko. Mr. Alexander, you probably know the story of the manager who opened the safe and took out three envelopes. The first envelope was opened, and it was written: “Throw it all on the forerunners. ” You're doing it now. The second envelope recommended that we settle our questions there. And the friction envelope recommended that you write three envelopes, put and prepare. So I have a question for you: "Are you being guided by this folk wisdom, and how will you someday, perhaps by appearing with the right to tell, who was really behind the privatisation of the Shrineman?" Who from a party of Cypriots or someone else was directing you in this respect?" Because one of your predecessors described in very detail how he was told what to sell to, at what price. But the price that was given today by the Shrimp is clearly insufficient, at least half less or more. Because whatever it is you're saying you could have done before. That you are today.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-18-m0.u16	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-18-m0.u17	Now we're acting on a simple rule: action within the law, however it pleases you or anyone else, is the only way to make sure that there are no questions on the part of law enforcement agencies. It's not always very convenient, but the law is the law, so we sell it exclusively. That's the same thing that was sold by Squirrel. I didn't find any envelopes in my office. I can invite you, search, see if you can find a better place for me where they can be hidden. And seriously, what happened to the price was, of course, a number of companies from different states of telecommunications came to the competition, including, let's say, the Russians came, but we got separated from them into what the price should be. And most of the companies that came, said and convinced me, and I think that the government is probably probably probably not worth more than 8 billion dollars by Telecom, that it can't be 10 billion dollars right now. But we put the 10th -- that was our position. We sold it for 10. I think we just couldn't sell it anymore.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-18-m0.u18	Alexander Steshenko, "BUT" faction, "The Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-18-m0.u19	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I'm asking my colleague peerda. Andriy Vasilovich School.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-18-m0.u20	Andrew Schlell. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-18-m0.u21	That's a very professional question, Your Honor. Now, don't you feel ashamed to cover even from this rostrum that's behind privatization, for example, the Shrine? Well, you understand perfectly, and we also understand, and you realize that every privatizer has a name, a father, or at least a name. You remember "Cruvoristal," there's Mr. Mittal -- alive, very healthy, you can see pictures of him. Now, we'd like you to explain who owns the Shrimp, and whether they have any family relations with those students who privatized the Black Sea shelf of their time. Maybe they're one family or one political power or one enterprise. Well, you can imagine, we've given practically Ukrainian treasure to people who don't know, a structure that's not known when we don't know how, that is, we know who, but we don't know when. So you can imagine our main investor in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-18-m0.u22	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-18-m0.u23	I'm going to read the owners who ultimately own the stock: Goldschild Peter, 24 percent, Goldschild Bridget, 23.5 percent, Wurmbyk Gustav, 24 percent, Wurmbyk Marina, 23.5 percent, Lanchutter Franz, 5 percent. These are Austrian citizens, who are like natural persons, if you follow all the companies, now the buyers through the legal persons of the Shrineman. There are no Ukrainian names here. I don't think they're students, although age is not indicated here. Goldscheider is Austrian.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-18-m0.u24	Dear colleagues, this is a very common name. Well, what are you doing? Alexander Stoyan refers the right to ask Alexander Pecklesenko a question. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-18-m0.u25	Dear Alexander Vladimirović, I want to thank you for your very calm and very thorough report. At the same time, Vladimir Mihajlovich, pay attention, Wednesday, Friday is the days of the opposition. These are the days when they can be implemented, when they can really ask questions, not practice, as Nikolai Tomenko said, in sentences and slogans. Therefore, I ask you, distinguished colleagues, let us focus on the main issue. I am interested in the existing privatization strategy, which has at least three areas: high- liquidity facilities, medium- and with no demand. I think we need to be in a crisis today. very careful consideration is given to the sale of high- liquidity objects. Everything that damages the State must be transferred to good hands. The less facilities in the state, the more money in the budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-18-m0.u26	Thank you for asking. I completely agree with you. In fact, it's not the time to privatize everything that's profitable right now. Because of this Turbot we don't plan to put on sale, it's profitable, it has a successful story, and it's going to be successful, and objects that are cost-effective really need to look for investors, because these objects are causing damage to their owner -- the state that we're doing and trying to. Although in times of crisis it is now far more difficult to find a buyer for objects with large debts.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-18-m0.u27	John Kirilenko passes the right to the question to Yuri Gnatkewicz.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-18-m0.u28	Thank you, Ivan Grigorovich. Alexander Volodymyrovich, as soon as you explained to our faction where the money from privatization was going. I'd like to remind you of these things. Do you remember when Volodymyrny Timoshenko's initiative was reselled "Cruvoristal"? When she stopped being prime minister, the money was searched for a long time. Then Julia Volodymyrna herself initiated the sale of several important and expensive public objects. But then it was supposed that this money was put in the budget to pay off the savings -- to pay people's savings. Unfortunately, then famous theorist and practitioner and one of the leaders of the faction of Mikhail Vasilovich, he said he needed money to develop, not to eat. [[last name will not be called]] And unfortunately, he was supported by Semenyuk, head of the fund, and President Yushchenko. And so Julia Volodymyrna wasn't counting on the savings depositors.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-18-m0.u29	Please. Well, let's get this out of the way. Make a clear point. Yuri Gnatkiewicz's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-18-m0.u30	How much money is currently planned from what they're going to sell, not to develop, but to help people and to pay their pensions, to pay their savings?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-18-m0.u31	At present, 100 percent of the costs of privatization go to the State Budget and are distributed in its articles. And this is the coverage of the government budget deficit, and they are distributed in a way that Parliament has voted in terms of expenditure. And they might say they're going to pay off the State's liabilities and the pension payments, because they're total liabilities. So there's no change going on right now. Although my principle is that half the money from privatization should go towards economic development -- and then this privatization is taking over. Because we have to work not just for today, but for future periods, and create an economy based on the fact that the state will properly invest money from privatization.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-18-m0.u32	Sergey Shevchuk, "BUT" faction, "The Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-18-m0.u33	I give the word to Alexander Bondar.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-18-m0.u34	Alexander Bondar, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-18-m0.u35	Alexander Bondar, faction “Our Ukraine — National Self-Defense”. Alexander Volodymyrovich, don't you think these are your answers about the owners: 5 Austrians, through the offshore almost Cypriot company, bought an object that forms the basis of Ukraine's national security, seems a little trivial? So here's a question for you. Was it not asked by the President, the Bureau, law enforcement authorities, that a specialty, which is secret, falls into the hands of unknown Austrians, and what will happen next? It's a matter of national security. Did they ask you to explain who was behind them? And then, as far as we know, this company's statutory fund, well, it doesn't even have enough to buy a chair at the Shrimp. Where did the money come from? Maybe it's Alcaid's money? Perhaps it invests in monitoring the negotiations of senior officials in our country. Well, we should know these things. And these answers, five Austrians with these names, well, they don't give us anything.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-18-m0.u36	The Special Forces have never served the employees of the Shrimp. I think you know that very well, special forces are being used by special forces closer to the Security Service than they are to Telecom. And when Telecom and hundreds of people are broken, non-telecom workers come. And they're not the structural unit of the Crucifixion. And they're going to run the specialty until they build the new system, and that's exactly how it's going to be fixed. What we're talking about is, let's go on, see, we're working. I only call what's within the law. These five names, they're fixed, they're documents that they've filed for the purchase of the Shrimp. I'm going to read them because they're signatures and seals, they're official, there's no doubt there's anyone else or anything. This is the buyers, the physical persons of the Crucifixion, there are no others, and there can't be. If anything happens.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-18-m0.u37	And if something changes, the State Property Fund has to agree to buy and sell if someone sells a package of shares to the other. What's going on with the privatisation money is not a big problem, because at the time we announced the Telecom competition, and we haven't yet submitted the applications, we've been approached by two structures, one European, one global financial, each with one proposal. We'll give credit to whoever buys the Shrimp. We don't have any questions who wins, tell them we're going to give credit. That's how much money there's going to be, we're going to give you that much credit. So I don't think the buyer has a problem getting credit because it's a small percentage of lending. And in general, lending structures like "The Crusher," through which big traffic, big cash flow, it's very convenient. I don't think they can have any problems. If they can't find the money, then the billion will stay in the State budget and we'll announce a new competition. We're not gonna lose anything.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-18-m0.u38	Dmitri Mikitovich Pritica, faction of the Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-18-m0.u39	I beg you to give Popescu to Ivan Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-18-m0.u40	Ivan Popescu, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-18-m0.u41	Thank you. Sand, faction of the Party of the Regions. Reverend Alexander Volodymyrovich, why did the process of privatizing the state stock package of the closed airline company "International Airlines of Ukraine" go through a ransom? What is the advantage in this particular case in this way of privatizing to others? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-18-m0.u42	There is no advantage, but this is the obligation of the state in law and in the statutory fund, the MOU statute states that all shareholders have the right to ransom. And the law doesn't allow us to make any sales until internal shareholders refuse. We offer them first, and they do not refuse to buy. This is uncomfortably, but it is a duty of the State, and we must act in harmony with the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-18-m0.u43	Vladimir Karpuk, "Our Ukraine" faction, the People's Self-Defense.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-18-m0.u44	Vladimir Karpuk, "Our Ukraine". Please pass the word to your favorite deputy of the "Rad" channel, Andrija Pavlovski.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-18-m0.u45	Andrew Pavlovsky, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-18-m0.u46	Thank you. The honourable reporter, well, there's information that the valuer of this sale was the same one who first sold "Crowryzstall" to Mr. Ahmetov and Pinchuku five times less than they sold the second time. And isn't it surprising that there are some unknown Austrian owners, and by the way, the question is, how many of them are working in the telecommunications market? Are these not the basics behind which the real name of a real owner from Ukraine, a well - known oligarch, is hidden? Have the courage to answer the truth. Everything that's hidden becomes known, and we'll all know in a month who owns it. And 10 billion dollars has to be sent to index pensions, wages, social benefits, because prices are going up dramatically. You saw 42 percent.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-18-m0.u47	It's not a new company, it's famous. It has capitals and businesses in the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Serbia, and Austria in Croatia. So this company works in the telecommunications market mostly as a consultant. As a buyer, she took the floor for the first time, but she acted as a buyer. It's the same in Serbia, and in other states, because of that, she created her own enterprises with a share of Epik's capital. He's buying for the first time. And I think that the experience she has in her operations gives us reason to believe that as a professional in this field, she knows that she bought it and she has plans for the development of the Shrineman. [[she deals exclusively with telecommunications services and advice from telecommunications services]] And without development, and without making big investments around, we estimate this as about a billion-and-a-half billion dollars, Shorty won't have a chance.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-18-m0.u48	Eugene Marmazov, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-18-m0.u49	Alexander Vladimirović, first of all, you have indeed made a professional report. It's beautiful. For the first time, as head of the foundation on the stand, you have responded with tolerance to questions that were even offensive. But I have a question for you. These are the contradictions in the legislative framework of privatization. I am referring to article 5 of the Act on the Privatization of Demayne, which defines enterprises prohibiting the privatization of these enterprises, and the Act on the List of Objects of State Property Rights Unprivatized. That is, if the enterprise fully relates to requirement 5 of the article and is not included in the list, the enterprise is subject to privatization. That's nonsense. We have, for example, this is Luganskteplord, it's now a shipbuilding plant called the Sea, and so on and so forth. How do you feel about the measures you are taking to remove this problem? Because it's hard.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-18-m0.u50	Indeed, there is a problem. When a legislative base was created, this situation was transparent and seen in this way. The fifth article establishes functional restrictions on privatization when certain operations, certain functions, may not be privatized by parts of the enterprise. The list sets out a complete ban on the privatization of the object, completely. They were supposed to complement each other. But the real situation is that, in fact, you are right, there are situations that are totally incomprehensible, contradictions where 5 articles are not possible and can be counted. There is a government commission. And the Ministry of Economics, along with the fund, worked out a bill that changes and will be submitted to Parliament at the same time and in a list of objects that are not subject to and at the same time in the fifth article, these changes will be voted together and there is a chance of bringing them into the only logic among themselves. Because we now have to look to the Ministry of Justice for certain symbols of the fifth article, which we can or cannot understand. I think that once the law is passed, the situation will be completely clear and clear. I also advocate that all names that are not privatized should be clearly identified in the list of enterprises, then there will be no question or no question.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-18-m0.u51	Eugene Chago, please, the "BOUT" faction, "The Fatherland." Please, Ivan Stojko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-18-m0.u52	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Reporter! You're really acting very intelligently, very calmly, just like the Prime Minister says everything, but I don't understand anything about "The Shrine," it's practically hard to understand something, everything was in the dormitories, that's all. But please tell me, however, as a person of state or you do not think that this object was sold in advance, since you have been called the number of five million, it is 40 billion dollars. And so, don't you think that someone has been too hasty to sometimes change the structure of power so that the President doesn't come new, or the structure of parliament, and will you not be the right person to go to the investigator in the future, or God forbid, to leave the borders of Ukraine? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-18-m0.u53	No, I don't worry about it, we do everything by law, and even anyone who likes it doesn't like it, it's just so complicated, but the law is the law. And I don't think the Squirrel that's been showing damage for the last three years has a chance to increase its value. He'll probably still be falling. And then when there were 5 billion, 100 percent of you're right, it cost dollars, then you had to sell it. Then it seemed like it was going to develop, but it was the highest price, and it was going to have to be exhibited, and the state would get $5 billion, and it would have been a broken record for "Crevices." It's impossible right now. The prospect of no $1 billion investment for Crummy, I repeat, is very sad.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-18-m0.u54	Thank you. The year of questions is over. Ladies and gentlemen, before I go to the next question, I am addressing the members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and asking for the next hour of questions to the government to be ministers, i.e. members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, I have been asked by the deputies to express fair reprimands and warnings about ministers ignoring the implementation of the relevant rules of law, it is unacceptable. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the MP's questions. I thank the members of the Cabinet, we should follow the schedule, now I'm making a parliamentary request. Honorable National Deputies, in accordance with the Rules, are given 30 minutes on Friday to make their requests. A request was received from the national deputies of Ukraine. Natalia Kraljevska to the President of Ukraine on the situation that has arisen in the area of enterprises in connection with the pressure of controlling authorities on entrepreneurs in Maydan. I'm betting on a motion to support the request. [[11:10:06]] For-53 Request not supported. Vladimir Pilpenka to the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the official investigation of the official negligence of officials of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which proved to be a vicious failure to carry out the orders of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a result of which constitutional powers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine were blocked. Gregory Smythuch to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Service Investigation of Legal Reasons for Refoulement Uncontested in 2008 of the Ukraine Supreme Council Resolution on Amendments to the Supreme Council of Ukraine (to ensure the personal vote of Ukraine's People's Deputies as Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Jarsenij Yatsenyuk, and to order the development and implementation of the modern programming complex "Rada-3". Jury Karmazin to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Head of the Committee on Rules, MPs and Security of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Attorney-General of Ukraine to ensure compliance with the requirements of the Constitution and the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the National Deputy of Ukraine regarding the non-conclusion of the activities of Ukrainian national deputies with other forms of paid activity, including with the activities of the Head of the Federation of Professional Associations of Ukraine. Valeria Behwaz to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the use of effective measures to prevent the deterioration of the quality of public health care, as well as the ban on the closure of district health facilities in rural areas. Valeria Calchenk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the implementation of the State Programme for the Permanent Development of the Region of Extraction and Primary Processing of Uranium Raw Materials for 2006-2030 and the implementation of the Ukrainian President's mandate from 19 November 2010. Valerija Suškević to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the non-admission of the regularity of the Department of Medical and Social Expertise of the Ministry of Health of Ukraine. Vassil Derevljana to Prime Minister of Ukraine for the non-elimination of the Lanovetska District State Administration network of pre-primary educational institutions in the Lanovets region of Ternopil. Valeria Behwaz to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the inadequacy of the transfer of public authorities and health institutions to the central authority of the executive branch to ensure the implementation of public health policy. Vassila Petovka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the work of the Zacarpathian Regional Directorate of Forestry and Hunting in 2010. Viacheslav Kirilenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the non-admission of the political censorship of school textbooks and the need to make available new textbooks from the history of Ukraine, which have been claimed by the Minister of Education and Science, Youth and Sports of Ukraine, Dmitr Tobacconik. Viacheslav Kirilenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the open address of the parents of Makiyivka School No. 44, the inadmissibility of closing the school and the need to find out the reasons and purpose of giving Prime Minister Dmitr Tobacco at a meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine the misinformation of the school's completion. Veacheslava Koval to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the violation by the Ministry of Social Policy of Ukraine and the Pension Fund of Ukraine of part four of article 42 of the Act "On the mandatory State Pension Insurance" of February 9, 2011, on the calculation or recalculation of pensions for working retirees in 2009, 2010, 2011. Dmitra Pritika, Prime Minister of Ukraine, on the implementation of the constitutional right of citizens who have suffered the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster to adequate pension insurance. Eugene Kzarykov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Head of the State Border Service of Ukraine, Head of the Odessa District State Administration for the preservation of the 121km-Kalachivka stop point and the opening of the crossing point across the state border of Kalachivka to protect the rights and interests of the Odessa region community. Eugene Kzarykov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Head of the State Border Service of Ukraine, Head of the Odessa District Council for the Protection of the Rights of Peoples of the Odessa Region and the transfer to the municipal property of the district community of Berezine, Tarutin district of Odessa, to improve the living conditions of rural people. Igora Sharov, Prime Minister of Ukraine, on State-wide measures aimed at strengthening the quality of medical supplies and preventing the circulation of counterfeit drugs and medical products in Ukraine. Igora Sharov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to increase responsibility for the supply and implementation of inefficient food and food products, with the aim of enhancing security and improving the quality of life of Ukrainian citizens. Katerina Vaszczuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the use of measures to protect against corruption, raiding actions by a group of people, including a citizen of Anatolia Peška, against the Scientific and Productive Association Agrorod, the sole producer of soy products in Ukraine. Lesi Orobec to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Attorney General of Ukraine, on the verification of information referred to in an article by the dean of the Faculty of Law of the National University of Kiev-Mogilian Academy of Andrija Meleshevich "State Order in the Highers of Ukraine: Discrimination? Corruption? Carelessness?", published on "Ukrainian Truth" on March 3, 2011. Mikoli Kulczynski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the violation of the rights of pensioners given to them by the Law on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster, the Pension Fund. Mr. Derkac to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the solution to the problem of the disposal of solid rocket fuel in Pavlovgrad Dnipropetrovsk region. Mikoli Schmidt to Prime Minister of Ukraine for the closing of public education school No. 2 in Donetsk. Oleg Zarubinski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the development and distribution of alternative car fuel in Ukraine. Alexander Cronvolenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine - Minister of Economic Development and Trade of Ukraine, Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine - Minister of Infrastructure Boris Kolesnikov of Ukraine, Deputy Prime Minister of Social Policy Sergey Tihypak of Ukraine, Minister of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine on uncontrolled, killing Ukrainian citizens and extremely dangerous to the Ukrainian economy of rising prices for petrol and diesel fuel, resulting in Ukraine being found in five countries with the highest level of oil prices left behind by the United Kingdom and the United States. Oleg Zarubinsky to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the effectiveness of State social housing programmes. Alexander Crnvolenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Economic Development and Trade of Ukraine, Minister of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine, Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources of Ukraine, on the level of safety of Ukrainian nuclear power stations compared to Japanese in relation to earthquakes recently occurring in Japan. Paul Žebrovsky to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Interior of Ukraine, Prosecutor-General of Ukraine, Head of the Kiev City State Administration on the illegal privatization of the premises of the bookstore "Sivo" by Arbil-Studio and the subsequent illegal sale of the copycat to the Society with limited responsibility "The Book World "Sivo" and the need for immediate return to the premises of the local community of the Chevchenkov district of Kiev and the restoration of the Society's work with limited responsibility "Sivo Book". Paul Silent to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the outstanding problems of closing Ukrainian schools. Paul Žebrovsky to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the force, raid, looting of premises, books, material values of the Society with limited liability, the Bookstore "Sivo", the property of Ukrainian citizens by a group of persons and the absence of a proper response by law enforcement authorities, both at the time of capture and during the investigation of criminal case No. 10-226668. Ruslana Knazević to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for an unsatisfactory response to a parliamentary appeal. Sergei Gordienka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Head of the Poltava District State Administration, Head of the Orgitsky District State Administration of the Poltava Region, on the absolute requirement of the general Assembly of the inhabitants of the village of Lazra of the Region of Poltava for the non-closure of the local hospital and the deterioration of the provision of medical care. Grinevetsky's Sergey to Prime Minister of Ukraine for possible threats to the Ukrainian part of the Danube from the functioning of the oil terminal in the village of the city type Judjuleste. Sergey Greenewecko to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the rehabilitation of Lake Sasik. Viacheslava Koval and Alexander Cnervolenka to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine - Minister of Infrastructure Boris Kolesnikov of Ukraine, Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine - Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine of Viktor Tikhov, Head of the Kiev City State Administration on the adequacy of the use of an excess of 5 billion dollars in the budget of Ukraine for the development of the city of Kiev in connection with a catastrophic situation in the transport, construction and utility sectors of urban infrastructure by amending the Budget Code to include income tax from citizens in the local budgets and to offset the state budget from the city budget of Kiev. Mikoli Kravchenka to the First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Economic Development and Trade of Ukraine, on the verification of the activities of the Donetsk State Research Institute of Black Metals. Valerija Baranov to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine - Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine Sergey Tihypak on the unsatisfactory state of implementation of the Ukrainian Police Act on the issue of granting employees of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine benefits for electricity consumption. Mikoli Kulczynski to Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine – Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine Sergey Tihypka for refusing to finance the Poltavian District Office of the All-Ukrainian Veterans Association by the Poltavian Regional Administration and Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea to the Department of the All-Ukrainian Union of Veterans in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea for 3 years. Mr. Mikhail Wolinz to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine - Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine Sergey Tihypka on Dissatisfaction with the reply to the parliamentary statement on the non-use of measures by officials of the Territorial State Labour Inspectorate in the Donetsk Region regarding the introduction of the working instruction to Love Halzeva in accordance with paragraph 6 of the General Regulations of the Manual of Qualifications of Professionals of Workers, approved by the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy of Ukraine as of 29 December 2004. Jury Karmazin to Vice-Prime Minister of Ukraine - Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine Viktor Tikhov, Prosecutor-General of Ukraine, Head of the Lviv Regional Administration on the verification of the abuse of office by officials of the executive authorities of the Lviv region, the inaction of prosecutors of the Lviv Region and Drogbytsky Interstate Prosecutor's Office on the facts of illegal construction and reconstruction of non-residential premises at the hands of the Chief Sanitary Doctor of the Lviv Region of Lvivíl Pavlovov and the arbitrary seizure of the land plot on which there are adjacent residential buildings and kindergartens, the use of appropriate measures to respond to and to the criminalization of illegality. Vladimir Leschchenka to Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine - Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine Viktor Tikhov for violations of the requirements of the current legislation of Ukraine regarding compliance with the standards, standards and regulations for the operation of the premises at: Chernigs, ul. Rokosovsky, 35, who rents a closed stock company called the Riteiling company Eurotec. Grigory Smituha to Vice-Prime Minister of Ukraine - Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine Viktor Tikhov, Attorney-General of Ukraine for the purpose of verifying the legality of the actions of officials of Sevastopol City Administration in connection with the planned construction of multi-story buildings in the area of residential district between the streets of Havel and Heroes of Underwatermen in Sevastopol. Vladimir Danilenko to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Finance, Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine Boris Kolesnikov, on an improper examination of the MP's request for amendments to the roll "Encourage Ukraine" for the creation of the real type of main area of the city of Kharkiv with the monument Volodymyr Lenin. Edouard Prutnik to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, Ministry of Health of Ukraine, Luhansk District Administration, on the need to resolve the issue of the urgent provision of a maternity home in the town of Stahanov, Lugansk district, with an ultrasonic diagnostic of an expert class with a Dopplerian supplement to ensure proper medical diagnostics and timely medical care. Mikoli Shershun to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the need to establish the general value of services while registering and righting land. Mikoli Shershun to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the need for State support to maintain and ensure the viability of the internal engineering infrastructure of municipal property in the Plains region. Anatolia Matvienka to the Head of the National Bank of Ukraine regarding the provision of payment information. Vladimir Leschchenka to the Ministry of Health of Ukraine for the financing of the hemodialysis procedure in Chernigovsky and Cherkaske Centres at the expense of the state budget. Vladimir Karpuk to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, for the examination of cases of exceeding official authority and gross violation of the rights of a citizen of Tetjana Teaka by officials of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in the Volinsk region. Vladimir Yavorowski to the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on disinformation by the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine Anatolia Mogilov of the Ukrainian Society on the sale to the heads of the National Association of Ukrainian Writers of the land on which the houses of creativity in Koktebel are located; does the Minister know that the land in the temporary lease cannot be sold? Katerina Vaschuk to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine on the use of measures to enforce the court's decision on the collection of debt from the Open Stock Company of the Drobic Milk Plant for the benefit of the agricultural producer Slava. Lilia Grigorovich to the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Attorney General of Ukraine, on the illegal collection of information about citizen Irina Magricka by officials of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine. Mikoli Kravchenka to the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine, head of the Donetsk district government regarding the 2011 budget situation in Kirovské Donetské region. Mikoli Rudchenka to the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, the Attorney General of Ukraine, on the legality of the activities of the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine's "Bilocerkow military trade" in the field of nutrition organization of school-age children who have the status of victims as a result of the Chernobyl disaster in the Žitomir region. Mikoli Tomenka to the Minister of Agriculture and Food of Ukraine, the Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources of Ukraine on the legality of artificial water descent at the Kremenchück water shelter in March 2011, the destruction of hundreds of tons of water living resources and the use of urgent measures to prevent an ecological disaster in the Dniepra basin. Alexander Schepeleva to the Ministry of Ecology and Natural Resources of Ukraine regarding the use of measures to eliminate the effects of the environmental disaster resulting from the dumping of water at the Kremenčice watershed. Alexander Schepeleva to the Minister of Environment and Natural Resources of Ukraine on the use of measures to prevent pollution of the environment as a result of the activities of the Mikolai Agricultural Plant. Roman Zabzaluk to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine regarding the failure to respond to a parliamentary appeal regarding the violation of the Ukrainian Act on the Prohibition of the Playing Business in Ukraine in the city of Mikolayev. Sergei Vlasenka to the Minister of Finance of Ukraine regarding the full text of the results of the review of the use of budgetary funds by legal companies, some of which are closed. Sergei Gordienko to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, on the need for an immediate and impartial investigation into the detention and detention of the Ordjonikidiv village head of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Maxim Dubinin, and the possibility of being released from prison is worth signing for non-department. [[to convince the inhabitants of the territorial community for fabricated reasons]] National MPs' groups to the Ministry of Health on the destruction of hospitals as a result of the introduction of the Pilot Health Experimental Project in the Donetsk Region. [[Stojko, Parubay, Grigorovitch]] Group of National Deputies to the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Ministry of Agriculture Policy and Food of Ukraine, the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine, the State Agency for Land Resources of Ukraine on the need to verify the facts presented in the collective address of the inhabitants of the Nizhin region of Chernigiv region on the attempted raiding of land in the village of Kruti and the village of Victory, which took place in February this year, and the situation that took place with one of the best state agricultural enterprises in Ukraine, the pride of Montenegro, the research firm of the farm "Losinjka". [[Prutnika, Plotnikova, and others]] Valery Calchenk to the head of the Supreme Qualifications Commission of Judges of Ukraine on the provision of a full, comprehensive hearing of the case of the judge of the Alexandri District Court of Kirovgrad district of Sergey Kukovenko on repeated gross violations of material and procedural law. Sergey Vlasenka to the Head of the State Property Fund of Ukraine on the legality of the change of corporate rights owners of the purchaser of shares of the Open Shareholder Society of the Shretelekom. Vladimir Yavorowski to the Head of the State Property Fund of Ukraine on the next shadow privatisation of the Open Shareholder Society's strategic facility, which was sold at a start-up price, which made Ukraine underestimated as a minimum of $3-4 billion and recently owned by the company EPIK TELECOM INVEST LTD, which, according to everything, is one of the authorities. Jury Odarchenka to the Head of the State Judicial Administration of Ukraine, the Presidents of the Council of Judges of Ukraine, on the impossibility of the bias of the automated system in determining the composition of the court under the General Court Documents. Anatolia Yagoferov to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the situation surrounding the Open Shareholder Society of the Holding Company Lugansk Tepelling. Andrew Pinchuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine about the failure of the developers to fulfil their obligations to build housing for young families. Andrija Shkila to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the damage to the Odessa territorial community by illegal land use at the French Boulevard, 27/1 and Genuezka, 1 in Odessa. Andrew School to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the inappropriate response to parliamentary appeals and the provision of precise information on the violations committed when the premises were taken into service after the reconstruction was carried out at the address of Lviv, ul. General Chuprinki, 5. Basil Gretzak to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the delay in the investigation of a criminal case, which was violated by the attack on the State Enterprise, the "Ukraine" polygraphy on January 25, 2010. Dmitry Schlemka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the deliberate failure to execute a court decision by the employees of the Vosius State Administration of Kiev. Dmitry Schlemk to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the protection of violated rights, the legitimate interests of the employees of the Open Shareholder Society of the Supreme Company. Mikoli Rudchenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the breach of investment obligations by the Open Shareholder Society of the Small Paper Factory of the Widmann City of Malin Zitomir Region. Alexander Efremov to the Attorney General of Ukraine for an unfair sentence in a criminal case. Paul Silent to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the illegal decision of Odessa’s city head, Alex Kostusev, on the use of the Odessa city’s language exclusively in Russian. Sergey Pavlenko to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the closure of the dangerous production of pinopolistrol in the city of Dunayevka of the Hmelnicki district and the inaction of the prosecutor’s authorities. Sergey Shrappova to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the misconduct of the management of the Pan-Ashir sewing factory, which has not paid workers their wages for a long time. [[in the city of Novomoskowsk, Dnipropetrovsk]] Jurija Gnatkević to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the facts of the abuse, fraud and illegal possession of property in the process of restructuring the collective agricultural enterprise Progress in the village of Tarakánów in the province of Ravensk. Groups of National Deputies to the Attorney-General of Ukraine on the conduct of the review and accountability of officials of the Odessa City Council Executive Committee for the misappropriation of budgetary resources, resulting in the delay in the payment of salaries to budget staff. [[Skutak, Karmazin, Kulczynski, and others]] [[including protected budget expenditure]] Peter Zibenk to the head of the Zitomir district government regarding the delay in resolving the housing issue of the disabled man Alexander Bondarchuk of the local authorities of the city of Zitomir. Jurija Gnatkević to the head of the Ravenna District Council for the purpose of closing the interdistrict oncology dispenser in the city of Dubno Rivena. Yuri Crook to the Head of the Odessa District State Administration for the repair of transit roads through the city of Reni Odessa. So, honourable national MPs, I've made 122 parliamentary inquiries. Honourable National Deputies, National Deputy of Ukraine Yuri Karmazin, addressed relevant documents to the Supreme Council of Ukraine in connection with his dissatisfaction with the answer to parliamentary questions. He asks to consider this question. Accordingly, honourable colleagues, the Supreme Council Rules, or the fifth part of the National Deputies, may use their signatures to ask questions about the consideration and discussion of a parliamentary request. If the Supreme Council of Ukraine does not support the consideration and discussion of the MP’s request, the MP is only allowed to speak for three minutes. So I am voting on a proposal to discuss the question of a parliamentary question. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like you to identify yourself. [[11:34:44]] For-69 The decision is not taken. Please, Yuri Anatolyovich Karmazin. You have three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-18-m0.u55	Yuri Carmazin. I sincerely thank all the deputies who have found the opportunity to support me. On December 24th, at the plenary meeting of the Supreme Council, I was asked by the Prime Minister to take urgent action to ensure conditions for continued growth and competitiveness of Ukraine's ports, which will contribute to national interests and economic security. However, I received an answer from the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the content of which is that the government will not meet my requirements or take concrete measures to ensure conditions for continued growth and competitiveness of ports, which may lead to improper national interests and threats to Ukraine's economic security. Ukraine’s extraordinary transit potential is recognized worldwide. His failure to complete power is a huge mistake that borders crime. Additional transit routes are extra jobs, it's an extra sale for Ukrainian transport and maintenance companies, from fuel trade to motels, it's an extra tax to the State Budget. Many countries: Singapore, Hong Kong, others base their budgets on transport sector revenues. The state does not pay enough attention. Ukraine’s transit potential is currently in real use, with 50 percent lost, including an unused Ukrainian port processing reserve of more than 30 percent. The deterioration in Ukraine's transit situation may be irreversible, I stress. If current negative trends are not taken into account at the national level in the formulation of national transport policies. I believe that these steps should be taken by the government: removing obstacles to transit cargo, which have a negative impact on the competitiveness of Ukrainian ports compared to ports in other Black Sea countries, or the Baltic Sea, which will result in the flow of cargo from ports in Romania, Russia, Bulgaria, Latvia and other countries to national ports. So far, everything is going to be completely the other way around. We lost Belarusian, Moldovan, Russian cargo. Moreover, some goods from Turkey are more convenient to drive around Europe to Riga, or to Klaipeda, and from there to Kiev than to drive through Odessa or Illysiowsk. Everyone today stops and throws all the dogs on customs. No, the dog is trapped in the government, it needs to be untied! Because of this, I stress that I have to reconsider my parliamentary question that I am very impressed that most of the people today who have proposed changes to the pension legislation that you have given away today do not want to find the funds and vote in favour of this issue.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-18-m0.u56	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich, sit down. Dear colleagues, I'm asking the secretariat to prepare an appropriate one. form an appropriate request from Yuri Anatoliovich Karmazin. Honourable National Deputies, the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted a decree of 24 September 2010 by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the previous report of the Provisional Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council on the investigation of cases of censorship in the media, the pressure on freedom of speech in Ukraine and the obstruction of the legitimate professional activities of journalists. The seventh paragraph was to be heard at the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on the move to investigate the disappearance of journalist Vasil Klimentiev, other resonance cases related to the protection of journalists’ rights. And according to the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine today, we are considering this issue. Since we cannot apply Article 240 of the Rules to this issue, it provides for reports or information on the work of generally relevant individuals and organizations of the institutions they lead and appointed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, we need to make a procedural decision in accordance with article 50 of the Rules. Both the Attorney General and the Minister of Internal Affairs are requested to provide relevant information to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[B in m in s a l in]] I say again: this is information, not a question. Any other suggestions? [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, please let's have one of the factions exchange thoughts. Let's give the factions one by one. Please, Irina Heratschenko. Irina Heratchenko's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-18-m0.u57	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we are very grateful that, at last, almost six months after the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine was taken, both the Attorney-General of Ukraine and the Minister of Internal Affairs came to the Hall of the Supreme Council to answer the questions that concern society today. And it seems to me that today, in fact, the Attorney General's Office and the Ministry of Internal Affairs are interested in giving us the opportunity to ask questions. Because there are a lot of discontents today from the media, from society about the closure of our power structures. I think if we have the ability to ask the faction question, it would be very and very correct. Because there's a question about Clementiev, about Gongadze. During this six - year period, there have been other cases that can be considered as being a violation of a journalist’s right to work. It would be right for us to be able to exchange our thoughts here today, to ask such questions to the Attorney General's Office, the IMF, and they just answered the public about how they were working in that direction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-18-m0.u58	It's a faction. Ivan Kirilenko, "BUT is the Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-18-m0.u59	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, your honor is presiding! We support the offer of our colleagues from "Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense." After hearing the information and the minister of internal affairs, the Attorney General should be exchanged by asking questions. At least 15 minutes each, because an incredibly, really, resonant question. And then exchange thoughts, statements from factions. Or at least give a speech to the head of the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information to Shewchenk Andrew. We support the previous proposal and we approve of this mode of work: 15 minutes each and three minutes each and then three minutes from the factions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-18-m0.u60	Mikhailo Chechetov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-18-m0.u61	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! The leadership of law enforcement agencies, forces and the Attorney-General, and the Minister of the Interior, demonstrate maximum openness, publicity, and have repeatedly reported on the work of their agencies, answering questions from this rostrum. And I think that they are already speaking in this room more than certain oppositions, some opposition members are attending the session at all, yes. So in order not to turn into a clown and a bazaar today, the clown started when you came out here with a slogan, trying to block the rostrum and so on. Therefore, in order not to conclude our sessional session in such a humorous manner, it is necessary to provide information to both the Attorney-General and the Minister of the Interior without question, without being discussed and thus concluded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-18-m0.u62	Are there any more factions? Please, Vladimir Grigorovich Matviev.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-18-m0.u63	Thank you, Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! I think that right now at the stage of the pre-trial investigation into the disappearance of journalist Vasil Klementiev, the Supreme Council will really listen to the information of the Attorney-General and the Minister of Internal Affairs and will draw the right conclusions. But I think that, to this day, we should limit ourselves, we should not turn this issue into a political farce. This, I think, will not do the job if we really want the issue of the disappearance of journalist Vasil Klementiev to be considered qualified and this case has been brought to a logical conclusion, that is to say, before a court hearing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-18-m0.u64	Who else? I'm just asking the factions, no factions? Oleg Easy, and we'll make a decision. I can't, if it's a non-fractional MP and one of the non-fractionals, what does it say?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-18-m0.u65	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich! Because it's obvious that we're going to limit ourselves to the information of the Attorney General's Office and the Ministry of Internal Affairs, I'd like to take this opportunity to contact the Attorney General, because we're not just talking about the Vasil Klementiev case, but I'm expressing the hope that the person is still alive and will come home and work, but also about other resonant matters related to the protection of journalists' rights. Dear Mr. Attorney-General, during the days of the Television and Radio Network, it has denied the license to speak to the famous "Melody" radio network, which has enjoyed millions of wonderful songs for almost ten years. Today they have been dislicted and handed over to some unknown company, which is behind one of the active authorities. I'm asking you to officially conduct a review of this case and to press charges against Nakrad's decision in case it's illegal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-18-m0.u66	Ladies and gentlemen, we have agreed with you in such a way that, after we have listened to the information of the Attorney General and the Minister of Internal Affairs, if the commission is ready, we will hear the report of the commission, as it is stipulated in the decree that we will hear the report of the commission in March. That depends on when the commission is ready, but. without delaying that question. And we're going to be able to have a broader, more comprehensive way of looking at this issue in full, as it were, the procedure for dealing with it. There were two suggestions: the first proposal – to give 10 minutes for information to the Attorney General, the Minister of Internal Affairs, the second proposal – in addition to information, to be able to ask questions, say, within 5 minutes. I'll put these motions to the vote in order. The first proposal is to provide information within 10 minutes and to accept information to the knowledge. If not supported, then the second sentence is 10 plus 5. Do you understand the offer? The first sentence on information without questions and discussions is put to the vote. [[11:47:20]] For the 250. Decision taken. I invite you to the rostrum of the Attorney General of Ukraine, Pshonku Viktor Pavlovich. Dear colleagues, this is a request, let's hear the information, then take a break. Is there no objection? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-18-m0.u67	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! Today’s discussion of the subject is really one of the most up - to - date. The Attorney General understands the role and importance of journalists in modern society. Thus, every crime involving media professionals is viewed as resonant by us as related to their professional activities. The state of judicial investigation in these cases has been under constant control by the Attorney General’s Office over the past few years. Statistics have shown that the number of journalists affected by crime has increased year after year. In particular, in 2008, they were 14, in 2009 – 20, in 2010 – 33. The vast majority of them have been harmed by crimes of general nature. At the same time, crimes related to the professional activity of journalists have been reported for a specified period of time: one in 2008, five in 2009 and eight in 2010. Each of these 14 criminal cases, 9 of which were sent to the courts, was subject to extensive investigation and investigation. Yes, last year there was widespread publicity about the physical damage in the city of Zitomir to the editor-in-chief of the newspaper "Silly Life" Ivanovski. Guilty persons are set up. There is sufficient evidence in the case to show that John’s bodily harm is being done in order to hinder the legal professional activity of the journalist. All three accomplices have been charged with the crime and a precautionary measure has been taken in the form of custody. The U.S. Attorney's Office sent the case to the court for consideration. Last year, seven other cases were brought before the courts of Dnipropetrovsk, Vinnitsky, Kirovograd, Odessa, Poltava, and Herson. In four of them, the courts ruled. In particular, the Yellow District Court of Dnipropetrovska condemned a person who hindered the professional activities of the journalist of the Society of Accent Media in preparing a video report. The latter caused bodily damage and destroyed records. In two criminal cases, the court ruled that the defendants should be released from criminal liability for the reconciliation of the parties. However, not all crimes can be exposed to hot spots. Despite the efforts made so far, the disappearance of Klementiev's chief redesignator remains undisclosed. Based on the social resonance caused by this incident, the crime of deliberate murder was violated. The conduct is carried out by the main investigative department of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, and an investigative and operational group has been set up, which has been joined by the most experienced investigators and criminal investigators. All possible versions are being worked out, including the murder of Clementiev in connection with his professional duties. A considerable amount of work was done, more than 480 witnesses were questioned, 91 were assigned to forensics, 53 were examined and 33 were searched, 20 court permits were obtained, and any available information was verified. The state of investigation of the case was repeatedly heard at operational meetings in the Prosecutor's Office of the Kharkiv Region and the Attorney-General's Office, last but not least on March 16th in the Deputy Attorney-General's office. As a result of the hearings, instructions were given for a comprehensive and objective investigation of cases. The trial is ongoing. The Minister of Internal Affairs will also provide more detailed information on the matter. One of the most resonant, over the last decade, is the criminal case of the murder of journalist George Gongadze. The investigation of the case was repeatedly reported in the Maosian media. The perpetrators of the heinous crime were sentenced back in 2008. In the course of the investigation, Pukac’s charge of deliberate murder in connection with the execution of George Gongadze’s public and journalistic duties has been concluded. At present, the accused is being informed of the material of the case, after which a criminal case will be sent to court for consideration in substance. With regard to the criminal case of the murder of journalist George Gongadze on request, the Attorney General’s Office is continuing its judicial investigation into the establishment of all persons who had a bearing on the commission of the crime and the prosecution of the crime. I would like to point out that the state of pretrial investigation in criminal cases involving members of the media is related to their professional activities and will continue to be under my personal control. At the same time, the authorities within their competence will take all possible steps to prevent illegal actions against journalists and to ensure that the law is respected in the media. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-18-m0.u68	Yes, thank you, Victor Pavlovich. Interior Minister Anatoly Volodymyrovich has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-18-m0.u69	President-in-chief, honourable national deputies, before informing you of the progress of the investigation into the disappearance of journalist Klementiev, let me say a few things in general about the opposition of the police to a serious violent crime. Last year, a positive trend was to reduce the number of violent crimes. Almost fewer cases of deliberate killings - 5 per cent, serious bodily harm - by 9 per cent, including those that caused the victim's death - by 10 per cent, rape by 16 per cent. At the end of criminal proceedings, 11,000,600,000 more were investigated for serious and particularly serious crimes, including contract killings. There have also been 27.5 thousand crimes committed in recent years. This positive trend is maintained in the current year. Special attention is paid to the detection and investigation of crimes against journalists on the day-to-day control of the IMF. Because a journalist's profession is special. It is thanks to it that democratic values are developing in the state. At the same time, it refers to one of the most dangerous professions. So any resonant event involving journalists is immediately reported to me personally, and the media are informed. Head of internal affairs and representatives of the public liaison unit are on their way to the scene. A crime - detection work is being organized directly at the scene. Beginning in 2000, 1,000,132 crimes have been committed today, in which 1132 media workers have been recognized as victims. Of these, 585 remain undiscovered — almost 50 percent. It should be noted that in 98, I reiterate, in 98 percent or 1,000 93 cases of these 1132 cases, these crimes are not related to the professional activity of the media. This is evidenced by the actual circumstances of their conduct, often by the victims themselves in the course of the investigation themselves, or these versions are not confirmed in a pretrial investigation. During the past 10 years, 24 cases investigated by the prosecutor’s office have been violated in connection with the obstruction of legal professional activity of journalists, article 171 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code. Thirteen persons have been brought to criminal responsibility, and no one has been convicted of actual punishment by the courts. In 2010, there were 94 criminal cases involving victims of media violence. Of these, 47 have been discovered, the same 50 percent, and 18 of these crimes have been reported since the beginning of this year. One of the most resonant crimes committed last year is all known cases that have been violated by the disappearance of the New Style newspaper's editor-in-chief Klimentiev. I'm going to point out that in order to solve this crime, a powerful investigative and operational group was created immediately, a plan of follow-up, and a search-and-rescue plan was put forward for the 10 most reliable versions of the crime. In the subsequent joint decision of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the Attorney General's Office, the case is entrusted to the Directorate-General of Investigation. I assure you that the follow-up and the search-and-research operations are ongoing all day long. One more time, all the time. This allowed the search to be narrowed down and left for the first phase of the investigation, four versions of Klimentiev's disappearance, one in particular, the commission of a crime in connection with his professional activity, the other in the commission of a crime on the ground of family relations, the third in the commission of a crime on the ground of debt relations, and the fourth in the case of crime. One of the main issues is the Climentiev’s work. Thus, people who were the objects of his publications in the New Style newspaper are being carefully worked out. The main expenses of the newspaper were sought, and a list was drawn up of those about whom Klimentiev publishes his publications. All of these are operated on an operational basis, checked with the victim. The state of trial and the results of the search and investigation were repeatedly heard by the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine, both at the site of the investigation in Kharkiv and in the Henprocurement and at the Ministry of Internal Affairs. The course of the investigation of this crime is under constant control of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and of my personal life. All events related to the case are carefully analyzed, certain conclusions are made, and the work on the crime is ongoing. On a daily basis, there are 25 investigators from the Department of Criminal Investigation and the Department of Criminal Investigation in Kharkiv, Ukraine. Moreover, other forces are involved in the detection of the crime. All of these workers, despite the fact that there are other undiscovered serious and particularly serious crimes in the area, are engaged only in the investigation and investigation of the crime related to Klimentiev. Despite numerous criticisms from various legal and social organizations, political structures, I would like to point out that a considerable amount of work has been done. Today, more than 3,000 persons have been checked in the work of the victim’s house, including residents of neighboring homes and citizens who may have been in or might have happened to be in the area on the morning of 11.08.2010, when Klimentiev disappeared. In view of the fact that Klimentiev appeared a few days before the disappearance of his trusted people on the beach of the Pechenyska Reservoir, and in 1708.2010 a rubber boat containing keys and mobile phones belonging to the victim was discovered on the Pezenyska Reservoir, where we worked almost every metre of this reservoir, with a total area of 80 square miles [80 sq km]. 20 divers from several regions of Ukraine were involved in the work, and they worked for two months at a reservoir. Four thousand persons were interrogated during the work of the watershed area. Those who discovered the boat with keys and Klimentiev’s mobile phone were carefully checked. It has been established that the appearance of a boat near the waterfront is a deliberate attempt to steer the investigation along the wrong path. As a result of the tests, the possibility of an accident on water involving the victim is excluded. Since Klimentiev’s disappearance, more than 200 unidentified corpses have been identified, and appropriate orientation has been sent to the Russian Federation and Belarus. In order to establish the persons whose fingerprints have been removed from the rubber boat, nearly 12,000 dactocarts have been examined. 102 different experts have been appointed and conducted. In general, the criminal record accounts for 45 volumes per hour. These are the results of daily and intensive work, including examinations of witnesses, examinations, searches, expert findings, information on telephone connections, and so forth. Today, with the work done under investigation, two versions have been left to work. The first is committing a crime in connection with Klimentyev’s professional responsibilities, which is a priority version. And the second is kidnapping and further murder committed by persons who had the aim of discrediting certain officials who are in high positions in the executive branch of the Kharkiv region. At the same time, it should be noted that the discovery of the crime complicates the absence of information on the circumstances of the victim’s disappearance, the absence of his whereabouts. Although there were virtually no data on the circumstances of the crime in the investigation and the operational services, the investigation was able to determine the direction of the work aimed at its detection, which I have no right to hear because of the mystery of the investigation. Today, action is being taken to establish the location of certain figures who have a direct bearing on crime. I have no doubt about it, nor do I have any doubt about the investigators who are running the case. This crime will be exposed, and those involved in it will be held criminally accountable. This work is under constant control of the IMF leadership. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-18-m0.u70	Yes, thank you, too, Anatoly Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-18-m0.u71	I thank you for the opportunity each month to speak to me from this important rostrum and to answer questions raised by distinguished national deputies. Thank you. () [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-18-m0.u72	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have completed this question. At the same time, I ask the head of the interim commission of inquiry to prepare an appropriate report to the commission so that we can consider it. We made decisions, we voted. Irina Heratschenko, please, microphone, for this matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-18-m0.u73	Dear colleagues, we really thank you for hearing from the Attorney General and the Minister of Internal Affairs, but it's a pity that we haven't had the opportunity to ask questions, because there are a lot of appeals to the people's deputies, especially in the Gongadze case. I would now like to address the Attorney General of Ukraine with these questions. We have sent you appropriate questions both from the deputies and from our temporary commission of inquiry with complaints from families and victims who are not allowed to familiarize themselves with the material of a matter to which they are fully entitled. Because the investigation was over, the trial was closed, December 1st, and the 3rd was asked to see when Gongadze's mother was old, an elderly woman, even in Lviv, couldn't get it. First story. The other one. Complaints are being made that even when these issues are being addressed by victims in court, the media are not even allowed to remove the video when the court’s claims are read. These are the questions we wanted to hear. I don't think we've had the opportunity to tell you where we might have heard the answer from the Attorney General's Office today, and that would be the first.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-18-m0.u74	Please finish your speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-18-m0.u75	It seems to me that this is a wrong decision when the law enforcement branch doesn't want to hear these questions from us, where you could add additional information that's important to the press. We hope that you will pay attention to these complaints, in turn, to the families of the victims, because this is a resonance not only for Ukraine, but for the world. You know how many complaints are from social organizations in the West that violate the rights of victims, families of victims in the Gongadze case. With regard to the report of the commission, we will prepare it, Vladimir Mikhailovich, in accordance with the law, of course, terms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-18-m0.u76	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have concluded our consideration of the matter. I thank the Attorney General, Minister of Internal Affairs, for showing their respect for the Supreme Council of Ukraine by their presence. Dear colleagues, there is a break of up to 12 hours 36 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-18-m0.u77	Dear colleagues, please take up your jobs. We're continuing the meeting. A draft decree on the 130th anniversary of the birth of the great Ukrainian medical scientist Alexander Alexander the Bogolitsa is under consideration. [[Registration number of Bill 8049]] There's a proposal for a reduced procedure. Please be supportive. [[12:37:10]] For-152. A decision has been made. Please, Karpuk Vladimir. And get ready for Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-18-m0.u78	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! Your attention is given to the proposal of Decree No. 8049, submitted by the people's deputies Karpuk, Sergey Shevchuk, Yuri Haydajev and Vitaly Korzh on the celebration of the 130th anniversary of the birth of the eminent Ukrainian medical scientist Alexander Alexander Alexander Bogolicz. This is an extremely prominent scientist with a world name who did an enormous amount for the development of Ukrainian native science, and when we formed the title of the bill, it was extremely difficult to determine because he was both a biologist and a physiologist and a pathophysiologist and, speaking modern scientific language, an allergyologist, an endocrinologist, a cardiologist, an oncologist and so on. This is, indeed, a man who has done much and as an organizer of science and, in particular, from 1930 to 1946 he headed the Academy of Sciences of Ukraine. We agree with the comments made by the Committee on Culture and Spirituality when considering the bill. At the Committee on Health, a proposal was made by national deputy Valerius Illich Konovaluk for the decision and 170 years from the date of the organization of the Kyiv National University of the Name of the Mantis, because the name of the scientist was borne by the university for just 170 years. But I don't think there's much time left to replace the bill. And there's going to be a separate bill on this date. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-18-m0.u79	Thank you, Vladimir Georgievich. Vladimir Alexandrovich Yavorowski, please head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-18-m0.u80	Good afternoon, Ukraine! The Committee on Culture and Spirituality fully supported this good initiative of MPs — representatives, by the way, different factions. Because I don't think we're going to have a problem, this bill is going to pass. Indeed, we have Alexander the Mantis in our person a truly outstanding physician, a Ukrainian physician, but with a world name. And what a colossal breakthrough he's made in the study of human blood is a huge absolute scientist. And it has already been said that in Ukraine he is valued, valued, and valued by his descendants. I'm just happy to add to what Karpuk said, to say that Alexander the Mantis has a beautiful genetic extension in Olga's person, the Mantis, who is a brilliant physician, a public figure, and, besides, a composer. And if you don't have a disc with her songs on the words of Lena Kostenko, buy it, and you will have great pleasure. And the last thing I'd like to say is, Adam Ivanovich. There are, in fact, several such inaccuracies. Let's say it's said that "scientific and practical measures" is what "scientific and practical measures" is. - to replace "scientific and practical conferences, assemblies, congresses". And also, in paragraph 2, before the word "financial" is "and material and technical security." It's kind of a trifle. And the last. I want it to be in the transcript. And lastly, we need the phrase "National Bank," which is a mandatory note, because we have to say, "Recommend to the National Bank to issue a commemorative medal." This is both correct and does not violate Parliament's relationship with the National. Coin, coin, that's what I mean by a coin like a medal. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-18-m0.u81	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I think we can do without talking. None. Then I'm voting on the proposal for a vote, and I'm asking you to pay attention, taking into account the recommendations made by the profile committee that are set out in his application. Here you go. Vladimir Alexandrovich Yavorowski Please take note of the committee's comments on the final editing of the decision. So with these additions, I'm voting on the 130th anniversary of the birth of the great Ukrainian scientist, Alexander Alexander Bogolicz, registration number 8049. Please vote. [[12:42:20]] For 297 A decision has been made. We're looking at the draft decree on the 120th anniversary of the great Ukrainian writer Mikhail Opanasovich Bulgakov. Registration number 8111, is a short-circuit proposal. Please be supportive. [[12:42:50]] For 205 Supported. Please, two minutes of Bogoslovska Inna Hermanovna is the author of the bill and prepare for the Yavorov.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-18-m0.u82	Dear colleagues, 120 years from Bulgakov's birth, this is a date that we should definitely mark when we are older than the maturity of the Ukrainian state. We've already passed the 18-year-old age when man understands where they come from and what they should realize is that any outstanding personality born in Ukraine, which has roots here, which can be connected in the consciousness of any inhabitant of the Earth with Ukraine, is our acquisition, it's our wealth. So I'm sure that this decree will unite us all, and I know that there was a lot on the Committee of Observations by Ukrainian Nationalists that Bulgakov is not a Ukrainian writer, but I'm sure that we should have the world in a few years before Malevich is a Ukrainian great artist, and his paintings, his spirit, born here; that Vernadian is a Ukrainian outstanding scientist; that Blavatska is a Ukrainian writer who was born in Dnipropetrovsk and wrote her first works there. We need to broaden our understanding of our roots. So I'm asking you to support this decision, it's timely and correct. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-18-m0.u83	Please, Yavori's Vladimir Aleksandrovitch from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-18-m0.u84	Dear colleagues, our constituents! The committee clearly supported the idea of marking the anniversary of an outstanding writer, an outstanding Russian writer with a world name, of course, that had a colossal effect on world literature and still has. It's somewhere in this bizarre Gogolian early Gogol, it's probably in Marquez's creativity. That is, indeed, no one has the right to doubt the greatness of this writer, who has brought into his realistic prose, has introduced the presence of a world of bizarre, alienated world, a world of imagination, a world of sometimes unconsciousness into the very consciousness. So we don't have any for that. I think we're going to support this decision. But I would just like to ask the people's deputies, first of all, the author of this bill suddenly said that the nationalists on the committee made a note. Mrs. Inno, these are the members of the committee where you are, by the way, the first deputy and over the entire period have only been on a committee meeting twice. But we are. You're doing the right thing not to go, we can work quietly. But you know, calling the committee members, where you get the salary that the nationalists have gathered there, I'm kind of telling you, it's very, very unfair, and don't do that, because I can call you, but I won't allow it. That's why we think about what to write, that it's a celebration of an outstanding Ukrainian writer, that we have the right to talk about it in speeches, but it's an official document -- a decree, we have to write, or an outstanding Russian writer, or the best: just an outstanding writer, our countryman. It's all in place. But we do not allow such freedoms in the official document today. This is a decree of the Supreme Council, in which no one has the right to involve one’s own. I'm asking you to support and correct what this is.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-18-m0.u85	Yes. Besides Chechtov, who else insists on the performance? Let's sign up for the show. Let's sign up. Tuck and Chechtev. Culchinsky, please. Chechtev is next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-18-m0.u86	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! I will also vote in favour of the 120th anniversary of the great Russian writer Bulgakov. And for whatever reason, this is one of those writers who could have realized his mistakes in his worldview toward us, the Ukrainians. Because, let's say, the discussion that started in the '20s after the White Guard novel, and it sparked a huge discussion, ended up with that voice of Waves, which then shot himself: "Get away from Moscow, go to Europe." After this discussion, Bulgakov did rework many of the White Guard moments in which there was some humiliation for the Ukrainians. So it was really great, not just a great writer, but a great man who could see it was critical. That's one thing. And I don't think we should apologize, Mr. Volodymyr, for the word "nationalist." Because Ukrainian nationalists have always only done good for their people. And Vladimir Ilchi Lenin, this is for Communists in particular, said that Ukrainian nationalism is always progressive because it is for the freedom of the Ukrainian people. Clearly, Stalinism, Bolshevism, then the word has made swearing, but it's actually patriotism and love for the country that makes it creative love. But in the sense that she was used in, in a Soviet sense, by Mrs. Godoslovak, if that's not the case, of course it's Soviet, it's offensive, and so the whole world is nationalistic. And Bulgakov, as a Russian patriot, was also a Russian nationalist, and anyone who lives is born, among some people it is not proper not to be a nationalist. It's not bad to be indifferent, to be out-of-field, to be turned over, that's the problem for the Ukrainians today. Thank you. So we vote yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-18-m0.u87	Mikhailo Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-18-m0.u88	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Ladies and gentlemen of the people! Inna Hermanovna's right, you see how many unique talented people have come out of our land. And the same Mr. Vernadsky, and Malevich, and Shevchenko, and Bulgakov, and Gogol, we have such a powerful spiritual intellectual base. On this intellectual basis, both intellectuals and writers must grow up today, and it will always be so, yes. But on the other hand. I wanted to pay attention to something else. Here, I think it unites Gogol, Shevchenko and Bulgakov? And then, when he analyzed their creativity, he realized that they were united by their wisdom. Each of them, at least half or more, wrote in both Russian and Ukrainian, in two languages. That is, even then, they understood that in order to be truly a spiritual person, a harmonious man, an intellectual, at least two languages, a brotherly, a relative must be known. It is our command that we be the true heirs of Shevchenko and Bulgakova and Gogol and, after all, we come to a consensus when there are 300 votes in the room, and there will be two languages written by the greatest thinkers, poets, writers: Shevchenko, Bulgakov and Gogol, become state. To uphold the decree! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-18-m0.u89	Zarubinski, please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-18-m0.u90	Oleg Zarubinski, faction of the People's Party. Dear colleagues, I am very afraid that we and the water of this discussion will not mold the child, and the child is bound to be celebrated by the great and famous figure of Bulgakov. And you know why, it occurred to me, at least because he created the kind of insults that he seems to have predicted today. Of course, more shellfish and shovenders, fewer professors of transfiguration, but that's not the problem with the writer Bulgakov -- that's the problem today. And by honoring the memory of this man who predicted today’s society, I think we will do a great plus and a great deal. So it seems that these discussions are like water, and the child is, you don't have to paint it, the determination needs to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-18-m0.u91	Thank you. The discussion is over. Dear colleagues, we'll make our decisions. Let's agree with the committee's proposals, and I think we're going to do very wisely if we don't determine which writer is Bulgakov, which one is famous, so we won't count so that we don't get into a dispute after all. He's ours, he's with us, we're just going to write a decree on the 120th anniversary of the great writer Michael Bulgakov. [[Registration number 8111]] Here's what I'm asking you to do with the vote. [[12:53:07]] For 294 It's been decided. We're looking at the draft decree on the National Military Memorial Cemetery. [[Registration number 8052]] There's a proposal for a reduced procedure. Please be supportive. [[12:53:37]] For 204 Supported. Please, Vadim Koleschenko, author, two minutes and from the committee to prepare Samylenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-18-m0.u92	Dear colleagues, in 2011, the entire Ukrainian people will celebrate the 20th anniversary of Ukraine's Independence, the 70th anniversary of the Great Homeland War, the 66th anniversary of the Fascism Victory. The perpetuation of the exploits of the liberators of their Fatherland and the veneration of war veterans is a matter of state importance. The victorious countries will honor their dead and dead heroes at their burial sites, which are of national significance and a symbol of virtue and honor for the entire nation. The American people, in Arlington, in Italy, in Milan, in Israel, in Jad Vam Memorial, in Russia, in the Federal Military Memorial Cemetery, etc. Meanwhile, in Ukraine as a whole and in the city of Kiev, such as the burial of war veterans, war veterans, military personnel and their family members, there is a system of violations of legislation. Numerous complaints have been received from families of war veterans and military personnel, members of the war effort to demand bribes for burial sites. There is no such thing as a common burial with family members. There is a catastrophic shortage of burial places in Kiev. Therefore, the main task of this project is to ensure that the requirements of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans are met unconditionally and guarantee their social protection. Regarding the provision of a worthy burial of war veterans who lived in Ukraine on January 1, this year, more than 2 million people lived. The preservation and development of the famous military labour traditions of the Ukrainian people, the strengthening of the patriotic upbringing of citizens, the preservation of historical truth and the formation of national pride for the prominent sons of the Ukrainian people. The draft decree provides for the establishment of a national military cemetery in the village of Bykovna under Kiev and a special cemetery in the centres and cities where a large number of war veterans and military forces live. The decree comes into force for annual expenses of more than 5 million dollars the following year. Unfortunately, we did not have two votes, since we remember the situation in the hall. So we think we should if we want to celebrate.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-18-m0.u93	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-18-m0.u94	I propose to support this motion for a ruling. And honor our veterans and well-known citizens of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-18-m0.u95	Secretary of the Committee on Safety and Defence, George Pavlovich Samuelenko Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-18-m0.u96	Dear colleagues! On 16 February of this year, the Committee on National Security and Defence, at its meeting, considered a draft regulation on the National Military Memorial Cemetery submitted by the Ukrainian People's Deputy. [[Registration number 8052]] The project proposes that the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, at the State level, decide on the establishment of a national military memorial cemetery and military cemetery in the regional and district centres of Ukraine. To perpetuate and to bury war veterans, participants in hostilities, soldiers, including those who have been dismissed, or who have resigned from their families, as well as others who have committed heroic acts in the name of the Ukrainian people and have special merit before their country. People's deputies, members of the Committee, support the draft regulation and recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt it as a basis, taking further account of the comments made by the Ukrainian people's deputies and other actors of the law of the legislative initiative in preparing it for second reading. Please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-18-m0.u97	Thank you. Yes, besides Zarubinsky and Zybenko, others insist? Please log in.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-18-m0.u98	Thank you, please pass the word to Mikola Volodymyrovich Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-18-m0.u99	Mikola Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-18-m0.u100	Dear colleagues, the eternity of memory is not a subject for discussion, here no one, I think, is going to stand up against the idea itself. But there are a few circumstances that I have to talk about. The first situation. We Ukrainians have a fantastic and tragic place called the "Bikownian Graves", where more than 100,000 Ukrainians have died. This is where Buchenvald, Baba Jara, is a place where people come every year to mention the innocent Ukrainians who were killed and to talk about the Stalinic repressions that took place. So if you think of such an object as a memorial, you can't do it in Bullock, because let's fight the dead among ourselves. So that's the only thing we haven't figured out yet in this country. Second position. When we speak of the Jubilee. So believe me, as a participant in fighting in Afghanistan, who is constantly in a hospital in Afghanistan, the best memory is not to take away the benefits they have, to call off a government bill that today takes benefits from Afghans, veterans, participants in the Great War of Homeland, because the government says, "There is no money for the benefit of families where Afghans died. There's no money to help those who fought. And we're going to create memorial tombs and monuments for this money." So I'm in the position to honor people, the local community has to do it on its own. Consider the example of Borispol. What a unique memorial place is being made in Borispol to ensure that all the leavers from Borispol: from Paul Chubinsky of those who died during the war of the Holocaust -- they gather and are honored by the community. [[author of Ukrainian Hymn]] The crowd found a way out of the situation. Well, do we not trust the communities and write down how many cemeteries we have to build?Oh, my God! So I think we should think about it here. And above all, honor the living and then think about how to organize our cemeteries. So I had to make such warnings. And I think we need to think about them so that we don't have a situation where I go into every area and there's a sign of "The End of Partisan Glory." I feel like we've had partisans living in Ukraine for two thousand years. It's the same way that we don't have to cross the line of the wise. Once again, let's think more about the living.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-18-m0.u101	The Culchinian Santa.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-18-m0.u102	"Our Ukraine." I actually thought this was the same thing as Mikola Tomenk, and I wanted to warn you about Bull. In general, I support this idea because it is on the ground of my idea of unifying. The Kyiv District Administration, as I understood during the committee meeting, provided some 5 or 6 places where there could be such a memorial national cemetery. And it would be possible not only in Bullock but also in many other places where, I recall, about 50 acres [50 ha] in each one of the Memorial sites. That's one thing. The other one. It is certainly good that the decree says that other people who fought for Ukraine, I think that this memorial cemetery could be a place where the dust and Philip Orlik, the creator of the Ukrainian Constitution, and the ashes of Simon Vasilovich Petluri, who gave his life for Ukraine and was the chief Ottoman of the forces of the Directorate, and the commander of the UPA Suhevich, and also all those who fought in the Soviet army and who were in favour of Ukraine in the struggle against Fascism. And for those reasons, I support this idea, except for the warning about Bull. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-18-m0.u103	Zarubinsky Oleg.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-18-m0.u104	Oleg Zarubinski, People's Party. Dear colleagues, in my view, the idea of the subject of the legislative initiative to create the National Memorial Military Cemetery is humane, just, and patriotic. For what reasons? Well, I think a lot of you have been to the Arlington cemetery in the United States, Washington, there's a monument to an unknown soldier. You know, for example, I was very surprised to learn that there is no unknown soldier there. So even these remains that are buried there and around which a lot of ceremonial, really patriotic, procedures happen every day, these remains are already identified by both parents, and relatives already know who he is, this unknown soldier. So it seems to me, to some extent, that the concentration of patriotic attention to those who died in Ukraine in battle, in the struggle, in the struggle for Ukraine is a positive idea. And another important moment, he's already been mentioned. According to a large account, sorry for the tautology, the implementation of this bill can be made positive steps towards an idea that has been implemented in many countries, in countries with the same complex history as Ukraine. It's about the idea of reconciliation. And it is the memorial national military cemetery that can be a place of reconciliation. And I'm convinced that the next generation, without stereotypes and clichés of their own time, will understand this idea, the idea of national reconciliation. And the important point is, we, I repeat, but we did have a baby when we had a negative view of patriotic parenting in previous years. It's patriotic in any country.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-18-m0.u105	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-18-m0.u106	It has a patriotic upbringing in every country, and we have the basis, the basis for the next generation's patriotism. The idea is to support, to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-18-m0.u107	Thank you. One minute. Zybenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-18-m0.u108	Communist faction, Peter Cibenko, head of the Ukrainian Veterans Council Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! Last year 2010 was an extremely important year in our history, because it was the year of the 65th anniversary of the Great Victory over Fascism, the year of the veterans of the Great Homeland War. The year that started is equally significant, because we're going to celebrate the 70th anniversary of the Great Homeland War and the 66th anniversary of the Great Victory over Fascism. In view of this, the document is absolutely timely. The Committee on Pensioners, Veterans, and Disabled Persons at its meeting on March 16 reviewed the draft Law and supported it. On behalf of the committee, I would like to make two warnings that must be taken into account. What do I mean? The text of the law mentions the State Committee on Veterans. Unfortunately, this structure is not in place right now, so the State Service needs to be replaced in the case of disabled people and veterans. That's the first one. And the second. We need to understand one more thing, that if we have the right ones.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-18-m0.u109	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-18-m0.u110	If you build appropriate memorial tombs at the level of the areas, you have to make changes to the Funeral and Funeral Affairs Act, by automatically digging these things up. Once again, I stress that the faction of the Company of Ukraine, like the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons, clearly supports this bill and asks to vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-18-m0.u111	Thank you. Chechtev, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-18-m0.u112	Dear People's Deputies, I have the utmost respect for Mr. Nikolay Vladimirovich Tomenko. And you know, not just as a politician, we're different from each other, but I respect him as a courageous Afghan warrior, an internationalist warrior. He is absolutely right that, first of all, we must take care of those who still live, those veterans who today demand social and material assistance, yes. But on the other hand, we must not forget future generations. And that's when we keep our memory, including in obelisks. This is where we bring up the true patriots of our country, who love their homeland, who love their people and who are willing to give everything and their lives, for the well-being of the country, for the benefit of the people. Therefore, rights and Nikolai Vladimirović, together with the Government, we need to increase social assistance for veterans. And the right absolutely, Mr. Koleschenko, that we should take such a decision in order to be able to do so.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-18-m0.u113	Stone, please, the Reform Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-18-m0.u114	The Reform Group for the Future, Kamchatny. Our group fully supports the adoption of this bill, but what is important is what our colleague Zarubinsky drew attention to. The construction of this clearly needed patriotic and, I would say, very much needed for us to build a memorial structure should contribute to national reconciliation. It must be one of the basic components of this grand and necessary work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-18-m0.u115	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the discussion is over, we will make decisions. And I suggest, given the importance of this issue, let's support the committee's decision to support the decision in the first reading and considering what we've discussed here plus taking into account other positions. In the next plenary week, ask the committee to give the final version, because, in fact, here you have to specify the names, to think about. It's a good thing, really, that there's such a cemetery in every area, but whether it's real and strong and so on. So that you and I can make a balanced decision that will be real. So I'm voting on the adoption of the decree on the National Military Memorial Cemetery in the first reading asking the Profile Committee to prepare it for the next plenary week in the final version. [[Registration number 8052]] Please vote. [[13:10:01]] For 249 Copy that. And, dear fellows, I'm going to take a moment of your time, and we're going to go to the Vulnerable. Please, Tereshuk, one minute to amend some of Ukraine's legislative acts, please, Bill 3040.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-18-m0.u116	Dear colleagues, the bill provides for a simplification of the procedure for delimiting the land of state and municipal property by amending the Land Code, the Land Authority Act and the Law on the Distinguishing of State and Municipal Property. But the law lasted almost three years on the shelves of the Supreme Council. There's been a lot of changes. Thus, the Land Market Act and other documents related to the introduction into the earth are being prepared. So, honourable colleagues, I ask you to remove this bill from consideration and send it for further processing.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-18-m0.u117	Thank you. Dear colleagues, since it is already part of the agenda, only by the decision of the Supreme Council can we satisfy the request for his resignation. That's why I'm voting on the proposal by Sergey Mikolaiovich Tereshuk to withdraw from the draft Act amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts. [[Registration number 3040]] Please be supportive. [[13:11:36]] For 266 Thank you. A decision has been made. Let's move on to the Miscellaneous. Get ready, please. Please sign up. Yes, 1 hour. Please, Fomin. Who, Pavlovsky? Yes, please, Pavlovsky. Get ready for Scybbian.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-18-m0.u118	Respectable compatriots! Andrew Pavlovsky, "Fatherland." Dear fellow countrymen, the new authorities joyfully celebrated their first anniversary, but every Ukrainian family in their family budget saw that life had actually deteriorated in a year. Food prices have doubled. Notice that the same cabbage that Azarov likes to say was raised three times in price, because the last month of Prime Minister Timoshenko was 2.53, now 10-12 bracelets for cabbage, for potatoes the same. Note that by 35 percent of the country's average public service tariffs have been increased by 50 percent to the population's domestic gas. The price for electricity tariffs was raised by 15 percent yesterday, even though it was raised by 30 in February. And at the same time, the authorities are insidiously forging inflation rates, price increases, and they say it was only 9 percent. Well, it's an honest lie, we see it in our pocket. Economists, independent experts point out that the real price growth rate was 42 percent and three tenths. Why does the authorities falsify and not tell the truth about the real price increase? And because, according to current legislation, it has to conduct an indexation to increase the price of pensions, wages and scholarships, social benefits. In order to restore legality and basic justice, Bills were introduced to the Supreme Council by the faction of the Yulia Timoshenko – "Fatherschina" on the immediate indexation of citizens' incomes and social benefits, as well as on the establishment on April 1st in connection with higher prices of higher social standards, namely: the minimum pensions of 1,222 dollars and the minimum wage of 1,536 dollars. So the average pensions are going to be at least two thousand dollars, and the wages are at least three thousand dollars, and that's going to be equal to the real price increase by the end of the year and at least a little bit to protect our citizens socially. Respectable citizens! There's money in the state! It's just the authorities need to steal less. I call on trade unions and public organizations to wake up and finally start protecting their own interests. Require a salary increase, a pension, a scholarship of no less than 40 percent. Hold on! Fight for our own interests! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-18-m0.u119	I'd like to invite Alexander Scybinetsky, the "BOUT" faction, "The Fatherland." He will be followed by Vladimir Moses.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-18-m0.u120	Dear colleagues and respected citizens of Ukraine! I want to draw attention to the problem without an exaggeration of the world's scale, and for Ukraine the issue of national security. It is about road safety, that is, countering the death epidemic on highways. The popular statistics on annual human losses in our country are about 7,000 lives, 20 lives a day, and tens of thousands injured, not to mention the economic losses estimated by international organizations to Ukraine at about $5 billion a year. The world has long understood the dangers of total automobilization when it comes to neglecting traffic safety. Civilised countries have been dealing with this issue for half a century. The United Nations declared 2011-2020 a decade of active action against death on wheels. Countries such as Sweden, Great Britain, Germany have an ambitious task of reducing the number of victims on highways to zero. To this end, comprehensive practical programs are being put into operation, based on the understanding that the issue must be resolved systematically, through public policy, not with responsibility for a separate department. What is happening to us? Is there a state policy in this area? Regrettably, there are no further declarations. There is no need in the government to focus all the work in one hand on a high level. There's no personal responsibility. Representatives of international organizations cannot find anyone to talk to about the provision of a multifaceted Ukraine, including financial assistance to address the problem of traffic security in a comprehensive manner. In the last few years, two programs have been adopted in Ukraine, and the deadlines have already coincided. At the request of the President, the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine has developed a project for the Cabinet of Ministers to approve a road safety strategy in Ukraine by 2015. And once again, we see that the document is not based on a deep analysis of the current situation, on European standards, and it does not contain financial reasons, and the main focus is on administrative action. The content is declarant, so we can now predict that the goal of halving death in five years is unlikely to be achieved. Formally, there is a Coordinating Council on Movement Security, which held only one meeting in 2010, as a result of the insistence of public organizations, national MPs. Such a state of affairs shows that the authorities ignore the dire problem of neglecting the serious threats to national security and not appreciating the lives of their citizens. That is why I have to ask the President and Prime Minister from this rostrum the questions: first, who in Ukraine is personally responsible and who is inter-ministerially coordinating the work on countering road death. The second is when he starts his real activity.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-18-m0.u121	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-18-m0.u122	When the real activity starts, the Coordinating Council on Road Traffic Safety at the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. When the State inspection and its functions are reformed, it will stop gathering money from drivers through artificial creation of traps and ambushes, humiliation of itself and of road users. Thank you for your attention. Please consider my speech as a deputy’s address, and I hope to receive specific answers, not formal notes.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-18-m0.u123	Please prepare an appropriate parliamentary address. I invite Vladimir Moysik, the faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Svetlana Schmelov's national deputy gave the word to Petr Cibenk, and he will be next, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-18-m0.u124	Vladimir Moses, Party for Ukraine! On 14 May this year, the Honourable Chairman of the National MPs is 140 years old from the birth of the prominent Ukrainian novelist writer, civil and political director Vasil Semenović Stefanik. He was born on Prikarpata in the village of Rusov in the region of Ivano-Frankiv. His creativity was a great creative treasure for the world’s literature treasury. "The Beethoven of the Rural Souls" was called Stefanika Ivan Jakovitch Franco. When a young novelist, Kasatkin, approached him with his work, he advised him: "You read Galician novelist Vasil Stefanik as short, loud and scary writing this man." And Stephanie had a close personal and creative friendship with John Frank, with Lesei Ukraine, with Michael Cotsubinsky, with Olga Kobilian. Again, Alexi Peskov, Maksim Gorki, was doing him a good job. Why did I take the initiative and sign up for Stephaniek's Jubilee? Dear fellow MPs, Vasil Semenovich Stefanik, from 1904 to 1910, lived in my hometown of Stetsev in the district of Ivano-Frankow, where he was married to the daughter of a rural priest, Kiril Hamurak. By the way, both the Holy Father and his son - in - law, Vasil Stefanik, for nine years, were like you and I, members of Parliament, only in Austrian. Dear colleagues, the Committee on Spirituality and Culture has supported my determination to mark the 140th anniversary of Stéphane, but unfortunately, it turns out that for the next two weeks we will not be working in the sessional regime. And May 14th, I emphasize, is the anniversary of his birth. So I wanted to speak and have Mikola Volodymyrovich present my statement with a request to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, to the Johno-Frankow District Public Administration to begin preparations for the creation of an organ committee to celebrate the anniversary of Stefanik's birthday. And by the way, this is December's 75th anniversary of Vasil Stefanick's death. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-18-m0.u125	Thank you, I think so, too, the authorities will respond, and the appropriate parliamentary appeals please prepare. I give the floor to Petra Cibenka, a faction of the Communists of Ukraine, who will be followed by Vladimir Caplienko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-18-m0.u126	Communist faction, Peter Cibenko, head of the Ukrainian Veterans Organization. I went out to this high state hall to announce the decision of the Ukrainian Veterans Organization. So, a petition from the Ukrainian Veterans' Council to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, a deputy corps demanding the immediate adoption of the Ukrainian Law on Criminal Responsibility for Promoting Fascism, Nazism and Nenacism in Ukraine: "The Bahatom Millionaires Organization of Veterans of Ukraine is very concerned about the significant spread of dangerous activities in Ukraine by neo-fascist nationalist organizations. In particular, the Freedom Union, which has a neo-Nazi program and symbols and promotes as heroes the activities of German-Fashistic agents Stephen Bandera and Roman Shuhevich, who swore allegiance to Hitler and the Reich. This organization is carrying out anti-constitutional illegal actions to violate the Ukrainian Law on the Emancipation of Victory in the Great National War of 1941-1945 provokes interethnic conflicts in the state, undermines civil tranquillity. Moreover, Mr. Michalchisin, deputy head of the organization, a public instructor, by the way, of the university, publicly claimed that the day would come when their gang would cross Dnipro, would come to Donetsk and throw a gang out of Ukraine today that had usurped Ukraine. And such calls for a direct overthrow of state power remain unpunished. The Ukrainian veterans' organization, in its address to President Yanuković of Ukraine on July 2, 2010, drew attention to the head of the state to the fact that, I quote, "In Ukraine, the rights of radical nationalist and, in fact, Nazi organizations continue to function openly. Unfortunately, the state authorities did not listen to our warning." Veterans are not simply surprised, they are shocked and outraged that the Ukrainian delegation last December at 65 sessions of the General Assembly did not vote in favour of the UN Resolution condemning the propaganda of Nazism, racism, xenophobia, images of the memory of the victims of fascism, the destruction of monuments built in memory of those who fought against Nazism during the years of the previous war. We point out to the Ukrainian higher legislature that in the largest countries of Europe, Germany, Austria, Italy, Portugal and others in postwar years have been adopted, and in recent years have been complemented by increased criminal responsibility for punishment for propaganda of fascism in any form. In European countries it is forbidden to put anywhere, especially on TV swastika and other nationalistic symbols and attributes. As we know, German chancellor Merkel has proposed to extend this ban to all 27 countries of the European Union, where he is trying to join Ukraine. Meanwhile, in our country, not only on private channels and radio stations but also on state-owned wanted guests.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-18-m0.u127	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-18-m0.u128	The welcome guests are representatives of radical and nationalistic organizations. In these circumstances, given the accelerated development of the threatening trend, the rise in neophasism in Ukraine, we, as seniors, insist on speeding up the adoption of this law. Please consider my address an official address to the Head of the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-18-m0.u129	Please form this address in an appropriate manner. Vladimir Kaplienko, a group of Reforms for the Future, will be followed by Viacheslav Koval.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-18-m0.u130	Vladimir Caplienko, People's Authority. Dear colleagues! Dear citizens of Ukraine! The MP's "Reforms for the Future" faction has been forced to draw your attention to the following facts, from March 8 to 9, the second time this year at the Mikolaiev Clay Plant, there has been another release into the atmosphere of poisonous red dust from the straw vault number two. Pill covered the villages of Limana, Galicin, and Primuzka Mikolaiyev region, where more than six thousand people live. During the last week, officials of various ranks were at the scene of the environmental disaster, which gave an assessment of the situation. But in their comments, they claim that there is no threat or harm to Santa Claus, but the problem is. On March 13, a group of national deputies led by Hennadi Alexanderovich Zadirko personally visited these places. On the spot, we saw that the red dust was everywhere, on cars, on houses, on fields, on roads, on the banks of the South Bug River, all literally covered with this red dust. We met parents whose children complained that they were allergic, screaming in their throats, irritated with the mucus, burning in their eyes. Of course, the problem is also that the shelter is simply not adapted to cold, dry and at the same time air weather, maybe it's design errors, maybe it's muddy, maybe it's a crime. Despite this shelter, it was put into operation in 2008. Today, fire trucks drive water all the time and water to turn dust into mercury. At the same time, these MNS experts say that the Mycolayian earth plant’s shelter is a dry-type shelter, so if they are driven by a number of them, they can’t stand it, and then in Ukraine there can be a repeat of Hungary’s clay-based tragedy, which completely repeats the Mycolayian, where it is recognized as the main problem of dust after the wind is drying up fresh heavy metals. In Hungary, red sludge is considered harmful to the body, and people from infected areas have been evicted, and soil has been disinfected. Hungary’s tragedy became international, and the culprits bore criminal responsibility for what happened. As a result, there are a number of questions raised by the Ukrainian National Deputies, members of the MPs of the Reforms for the Future. First. What a threat and damage the red helmet of a Mycolayian clay plant is actually carrying. The other one. Whether the owners of the factory are willing to take the necessary steps to prevent such disasters from happening in the future. Third. Why, in design and operation, the winding and dryness of the area, the location of three populated areas, and the South Bug River were overlooked. Four. Is it the factory's leadership and one of the world's aluminum monopolists, the Russian company Rusal, to bear to the population in the zone of injury, the social responsibility. Provide a medical examination of the inhabitants of those villages, organize free full nutrition for children and rest in health care facilities. Fifth. We are surprised by the position of Ukrainian officials who are among the most powerful companies in the world.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-18-m0.u131	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-18-m0.u132	They impose a fine of 17,000 dollars and report the full safety of the boar. Please consider this statement an official address to the MP's "Reforms for the Future" faction to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General and the Minister for Emergency Situations. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-18-m0.u133	Please form this address in an appropriate manner. I invite Viacheslav Koval, the faction of "Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense", followed by Yuri Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-18-m0.u134	Viacheslav Koval, National Movement of Ukraine, faction "Our Ukraine". Honorable colleagues, citizens, this year are 12 years from the death of the leader of the People’s Movement of Ukraine, one of the parents of Ukrainian independence, dissident, publicist, fierce patriot, unbreakable fighter, national deputy, hero of Ukraine, Viacheslav Crnovola. The killing of Viacheslav Crnovola changed the history of the Ukrainian state and stood in a number of political killings in Ukraine. The National Movement of Ukraine has made and will make every effort to ensure that the murder of Viacheslav Crnovola is solved. Since 1999, the People's Movement's People's Deputies have systematically been referred, for the last time in December 2010, to the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Bureau, the Attorney-General's Office, to which were mostly the defaults with the inclusion of the data already known and the ritual phrase "investigation in the case is ongoing". As early as 1999-2003, a parallel investigation was conducted by the National Movement of Ukraine, which was openly ignored by law enforcement agencies. A formal investigation is ongoing, and now and no movement has ever taken place in the course of the investigation. The version of the accident, not the political murder, is still the primary of the investigators, but the evidence of the investigation group. and they were not provablely denied. As in other loud political killings, the investigation is used for oblivion, for the disappearance of an unaccounted evidence base, for the fatigue of ordinary citizens from the fact that nothing new and meaningful is happening, and therefore for the creation of a sense of unpredictability and not relevance. This is the approach taken by the Attorney General in the case of Chernobyl. The discovery of the killing of Crnwall may have occurred at a moment when from a political institution that firmly adheres to Soviet traditions and values, the Henprosecutors could have become a law-enforcement body, and the prosecutor's corporation has been able to delay the investigation at a dead point both in previous years and now, to frustrate the water and prevent effective investigation into the murder of a leader of national democracy. The National Movement of Ukraine strongly opposes the delaying of criminal investigation into the murder of Viacheslav Crnovola. The discovery of the killing of Chernobyl is a prerequisite for building a just democratic state. We believe that despite the years that have passed since the time of the crime. will be exposed, and discovered customers, and true performers will rise up before the courts. The national movement has made every effort to ensure that Ukraine learns the truth about the murder of its leader, and the murderers have been punished justly. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-18-m0.u135	I invite Yuri Carmazin, followed by Mikola Romanyuk, a faction of the Party of the Regions. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-18-m0.u136	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! Respectable compatriots! On another occasion, I would like to draw your attention to what is being created at the National Council on Television and Radio Broadcasting has already been highlighted from this high platform. It's about depriving the listeners of their favorite radio, Melody. In this radio area, more than 50 locations have now been deprived of the license of 15 district centers. Among them are cities such as: Lviv, Donetsk, Kharkiv, Odessa, Simferopol, Poltava and others, only 15 such centers. I don't understand why no one who's unknown in the journalistic or creative circuits of the language is suddenly passing on the frequencies of the All-U.S. Melody. I don't understand where you can find politics on Melody Radio when you can hear both opposition and music that pleases everyone, and you can hear and see power there. So I'm going to look at all the documents that I've seen, because it's a formal reason to accept the Nazis. The council's refusal to extend the term was the announcement of warnings, which are totally finger-hanging, it's a fact of raiding. And I'm talking to the Attorney General, I'm talking to Naz. I would like them to review their own, and I would like to ask the MP to put an end to these illegal things and not to do so again. I would also like to draw your attention to what happened literally yesterday. Literally yesterday, the Supreme Council, the more faithful majority of it, did not want to follow the direct prescription of part three of article 84 of the Constitution on voting at meetings by the national parliaments personally. They said that some laws still needed to be amended, although the Constitution was the norm for direct action. For what it's for, I'll explain today. I'll explain what it's done to make those changes to the pension laws now with cards, so that those who don't have MPs can be eliminated on the eve of Victory Day. Here's what they say, if you've had to switch trips to the sanatorium before, you've got to shut it down. In order to replace payments to the disabled, wartime participants.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-18-m0.u137	Yuri Anatolyevich, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-18-m0.u138	I'm done. In order to pass an anti-national pension law. That is why I ask, I appeal to all citizens of Ukraine, to pressure MPs to implement the Constitution more quickly and to avoid narrowing civil rights as provided for in article 22 of the Constitution of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-18-m0.u139	Thank you. I'd like to invite Mikola Romanyuk, the factions of the Party of the Regions. Orestes Mutz will follow him. Dear friends, please bet that many deputies wanted to inform their voters. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-18-m0.u140	Ladies and gentlemen, there was an inter-parliamentary visit by the delegation of the Supreme Council to Moscow. The following questions were considered during the visit. Housing for Ukrainians returning from the regions of the Far North A new innovative approach to transit, control and consumption of natural gas in Ukraine The transit of Russian petroleum products to countries of the European Union despite the territory of Ukraine Today, I want to take a separate look at one of the questions: Building housing for Ukrainians who are returning from the Far North. The energy complexes of Ukraine and Russia have a common history. And by 1991 they had developed as the only complex. Russian and Ukrainian experts were involved in the construction, maintenance, and operation of buildings. For people who work and live under the conditions of the Far North in Russia, there are a number of programs that move to areas that are more conducive to living conditions. In particular, Order 700 of the Government of the Russian Federation. The total number of displaced persons can be up to one million, 989,000. Among them, one million and a half million move to the territory of the Russian Federation. 637 000 to SND countries. Of these, 300,000 are in Ukraine. However, the process of moving to Ukraine requires support from both the Russian and the Ukrainian sides. Our initiative is to support at the intergovernmental level a project for the relocation of Ukrainians living in the conditions of the Far North. The project is implemented because it is implemented by highly qualified companies that have all the resources they need and operate in the interests of their countries. We cannot but note the role of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the State Duma of the Russian Federation in resolving this issue. Since the dialogue between them continued, he became a companion and a partner. Such communication is characterized by openness, kindness, and trust, and mutual understanding. So we hope to hear a comprehensive evaluation of the project, of the current situation of its implementation by representatives of national parliaments. If we come up with a list of questions and suggestions for the business sector of the project participants, and for the governments that speak to them, our work can be considered useful. In view of the above, and also taking into account the course for improving the Russian-Ukrainian relations taken by the presidents of our countries, I propose that the economic committee of the Ukrainian-Russian Interstate Commission consider the possibility of joint implementation of the construction project in Ukraine. For the purpose of implementing the project, it is proposed to create a fund called Viktor Stepanovich Cronomyrdin as the main ideologist of this idea and a great friend of Ukraine. I especially enjoy participating in these programs. Experience has shown that we are solid in principle, and differences in viewpoints often arise because of different historical roots and different historical paths, and when we, as we vigorously advance our positions, stop hearing each other. There's a sense that the crisis has transformed most of the emotional approaches into rational ones, which means the following. It's opening again.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-18-m0.u141	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-18-m0.u142	cooperation in energy fields, which must be used for the common good. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-18-m0.u143	I'd like to introduce you to Oreste Mutz. He will be followed by Alexy Plotnikov, a faction of the Party of the Regions. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-18-m0.u144	Orestes Mutz, Ternopilska. Dear colleagues, fellow countrymen! Corruption in modern conditions has become a real threat to national security, the constitutional system of Ukraine. It's practically in every field and it's given birth to a dangerous phenomenon like the shadow economy. The highest level of Tinnitus in agriculture. For the agrarian heathland that I represent, this fact has a double negative meaning. Today, experts estimate the shadowy labour market of the area as 27,000 people. This is one and a half times more than the official number of workers in the entire agricultural sphere of the country. This evil threatens not only the Ternopil region but also the entire Western region. A large number of Western Ukrainians are now on foreign earnings. According to the Centre of Razumkow, expert estimates of Ivano-Frankivsky, Lvivsky and Ternopil region say that employees send money to their home country, which amounts to several district budgets. However, the corruption rod was very much embedded in our social body. Even isolated facts speak of its threatening proportions. Yes, the Control and Audit Authority in the Ternopil area is headed by John Pacco, who has led to the collapse of the highly professional community. In his leadership, 28 experienced auditors were released. Clearly, the official is professionally incompetent and discredits the authorities by his actions. The goal of decisions is the maximum benefit for yourself. At present, he is concerned about privatizing his own lot of land of nearly two hectares [2 ha]. Two tens of acres. Also, the questionable work of the Head of State Architecture and Construction Inspectorate of Ternopolska, Mr. Avdonin, has led to the emergence in the area of so-called clones of the sadly-known Elita Centre. West Ukrainians are well - understood, unable to treat the country with economic reforms, and at the same time allowed to be eaten by rust of theft. The future of all Ukraine, including Western Ukraine, and our native Ternopolska, is directly dependent on a successful solution to this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-18-m0.u145	I'd like to invite Alexi Plonikov, faction of the Party of the Regions. He'll be followed by Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-18-m0.u146	Dear Mikola Volodymyrovich, dear colleagues! I was motivated to speak from this rostrum by my electorate, who live in the Sanhedrin district of Kiev. They came to me with a call, it was 9 residents of houses Nos. 5, No. 7 and No. 9 on the street of Budarina, which is 5 kilometers from Danna. The main purpose of this call was that there is a Zitomir road and there is no corresponding overpass, that is, citizens are forced to run under transport, which is very dangerous for life. And today one of our colleagues has been speaking about road safety and much more. The collective statement signed by the coordinator of Valentina Stepanovna Tretlyakova’s initiative group is that 5,000 inhabitants of the Holy Region living next door are unable to safely cross the Zitomir highway. While building multi-story buildings, there are other things that expand the micro-region, they do everything they can to make more citizens there. But it would be appropriate for both children and older citizens to consider the matter in order to make it safe for them to cross the road. I went to the Kyiv City Administration. In principle, we have calm correspondence with them, but they are somehow bypassing the problem of building an underground transition. About the elevators, about the repairs of the instigatory territories, about anything, but this very important problem is somehow not the focus of my correspondence with the Kyiv State Administration. So I think that the solution to this problem is not only to improve the lives of the inhabitants of the appropriate microregion, it's generally meant to set some general framework for what is the safety of life, which is the safety of movement, and how the authorities should treat their electorates, their citizens. So I'm asking from this rostrum, to consider this as an appropriate request to the Kiev City Administration, and I think that my voters' requests will finally be taken into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-18-m0.u147	I'd like to invite Oleg Lazko. He will be followed by Xenius Leppin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-18-m0.u148	Dear fellow citizens! The more we hear from the government of the Balkans about reforms, the less we hear about reforms, the less we hear about reforms. One out of three hardworking compatriots left their homeland and seek earnings abroad. Many would return to their home and their families, but they have nowhere to go for a decent job. Even those working in production do not usually add to the National Gross Product, but they consume imported food: beetroot, garlic, onion, potatoes, sugar, or whatever the fertile Ukraine is capable of sinking halfway around the world. Recently, the government even purchased Asian animal feeds for our people. And the minister of agrarian politics and food, Mikola the Jury, as the advertising agent of the provincial firm, calls these foods the "Chinese Greek of other varieties." All kinds of shops and messes come from abroad because Ukrainian factories and factories are looted and destroyed. Because of the hardships of power and bribery, national producers with the smallest profits avoid government supervision, tax payments to the budget and social funds, and the government is blind because it does not see that the profits of the oligarchs on the background of the pitiful pensions and meager wages are taken together by Tunisia, Egypt and Libya to Ukraine. The government wants to save its impotence with foreign loans, swallowing currency like Viagra to sleep with the International Monetary Fund, which is already a threat to national independence. Convinced that no reforms in individual parts of the economy will bring positive results, the country needs a new economic policy — a policy of rebuilding national production, a policy of creating millions of jobs for Ukrainian citizens. The new economic policy must first and foremost be based on national financial, labour, and material resources. Only this will allow us to create conditions for the real improvement of the lives of our citizens. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-18-m0.u149	I'd like to invite you to Xenia Lapina, the faction of our Ukraine. It will be followed by John the Sand, a faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-18-m0.u150	Thank you. Xenia Lapina, Party for Ukraine! Dear voters! Today, the business community of Ukraine is experiencing a major shock in recent days. If you see a multi-thousands of queues, it's not the bread, it's the queues that want to put a declaration in the tax inspection. And today, all tax inspectorates across the country in all cities are surrounded by such queues. What happened? Why would entrepreneurs, accountants, along with them, and tax inspectors not spend time with children on Sundays, but sit in tax inspections: some to stand in turn to hand over paper, and others to accept this paper. These are the early signs of the introduction of the Tax Code. The tax code, which has been so frequently enforced in this room, has unfortunately been overlooked during this push, and has implemented standards that have tripled the amount of income tax reporting of individuals for each enterprise activity and have more than doubled the number of persons who are subject to the declaration. So the load just went up, as you can count, about 10 times. In fact, this led to all of them being lined up at the same time. Why would they do that? Do you think that would add an extra one to the budget? No, it's not. More than two-thirds of those declarations, those people who are now in tax and can't hear us are standing with empty declarations, with blanks, giving out deserts. Why, there's no question, and there's no answer. Sadly, the Codex foretold that this would be the case. In my opinion, it's just, you know, some barbarism of a bureaucratic machine, forcing people to stand in the multiplicity queue for a few days to hand over a blank paper that doesn't add a penny to the budget. What to do, then, raises the question. Well, first of all, we can be saved here by an explanation from the Ministry of Finance that can explain the rules of the code, and I have to tell you that the code has been written and pushed into this Council so that it needs serious interpretation. Today, even judges meet for seminars to discuss how to interpret it. So to interpret the code in the sense that simplifying entrepreneurs who are not employers may not be carrying these blank papers because nobody needs them. This will halve the number of people who need to come and make a declaration. And there is certainly no need for our efforts and urgent legislative changes that need to be considered literally in the next sessional week. I've submitted the relevant bill to the Supreme Council. And make a report for those who are employers, at least monthly, but quarterly. That's going to reduce the number of papers three times.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-18-m0.u151	Thank you. I invite you to John Popescu. It will be followed by Julia Kovalevska, a faction of the Party of Regions. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-18-m0.u152	Thank you. The sands, the faction of the Party of the Regions, the region of Cherniewec. Reverend Mikolo Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues! During my term in the constituency in the Montenegrin region, I was addressed as Ukrainian national deputy by the village head Georgi Florovic Lutik and residents of the village of Yordanesh of the Głbowiecki region of Chernivecki region, for reasons of failure to resolve the extraordinary situation that resulted from the flood of 2008 and 2010 on the left-hand side of the Siret River. The last item in 2010 not only changed the course of the river but also destroyed a 10 - meter - high coastal dam, destroyed a large area of land, and the main thing was to completely cut off the only road to a large part of the village. Houses, as well as the dam of the only suspension bridge, are at risk, bringing together two halves of the village. The village council, the inhabitants of the surrounding area, organized a temporary transportation tour of the cities of the people, since there is no other road to 79 houses at all. In a technical examination of the emergency hazardous area in June 2010, the commission determined that coastal work was urgently needed to prevent destruction and further damage to the banks of the Siret River — 400 meters on the left and 200 meters on the right. However, no real funds were allocated for these jobs. So I ask Minfin and the High Council Budget Committee to include this object for funding in 2011, with the next change to the 2011 National Budget of Ukraine. I have to say that for many years there are plans for shore-building work on the Siret, Small Siret and Siretel River because of the lack of funds, they are very insufficient. This puts bridges at risk, and then it takes a lot of financial resources to recover them. The cities in the village of Iževci of the Watchtower region, the capital repairs in the village of Słegany Głboczycke district, are already closed and need to be completely restored. If we do not now take measures to strengthen the shores in the villages of Jordan, Iževci, Upper and Lower Petrovci, Cup, Suchevena, Kamyatka, Skull, and others, spring floods can lead to irreparable losses. So I'm going to the Cabinet of Ministers to give the appropriate instructions to Minfin to allocate the necessary funds to the services to rebuild the shores to warn of new unscheduled costs during the following spring floods. Please consider my statement as a question of parliament. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-18-m0.u153	Please prepare an appropriate parliamentary request. I invite Julia Kovalevsky, faction of the Party of the Regions. It will be followed by Yuri Prokopchuk, who was given the word Yuri Gratkevitch, the faction "BUT – "The Fatherland". Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-18-m0.u154	Dear colleagues, Mr. Chairman, dear fellow countrymen! There have been many speeches, appeals, even more harsh criticisms, accusations and images from this high rostrum -- and very few good words, words of respect and gratitude, which are the words I want to say today. A recent year has passed since the nation’s major government took up a new command. This period of compression can be called "from ruins to stability," "from despair to belief in the future." The new government inherited a crisis that almost destroyed the state’s economy; astronomical external debt; a decline in production; galloping prices; rapid inflation; and a decline in the management system. The country stood on the edge of the chasm. And thanks to the efforts of the professional team, she did not fail, as our opponents predicted. Last year has proved to be a solid basis for a series of systemic transformations aimed at improving the quality of life of citizens. The government not only managed to fix the situation but also greatly improved the situation. Today, for the first time in the history of an independent Ukraine, the government does not play with society by feeding empty promises, but it is conducting a constructive, open dialogue: clarifying the content of laws, the procedure for their implementation, and the vitality of decisions that are made. Many things have been done. Under extremely limited resources, the government has done a very difficult task: to stimulate economic recovery and social protection. The Ukrainian Act on State Social Standards has been fully implemented. Citizens should feel that they are under the everyday care of the state. Over the past year, the cost of living was 5 times as high as a quarter on average. Salary increases and will increase as well. Its stimulating role is being renewed. At the same time, the accrued debt on a salary is being repaid over the years. For the first time since 2003, inflation has been measured by a definite number — nine percent. We have a stable rate of bracelets. In 2010, the unemployment rate rose by 40 percent, an average pension rose by 154 in 2010 and exceeded a thousand dollars. Since August 1, 2010, the disabled of the Great Homeland War, the participants in the fighting have received an additional increase in the minimum pension pay on average of 21 percent. Our government has also succeeded in simplifying subsidies and reducing the threshold for obtaining them, protecting the most vulnerable levels of society from rising tariffs. The modernization of all sectors of the country’s agriculture, which are long overdue, has begun. In 2011, social standards will continue to rise, and the minimum wage will be increased.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-18-m0.u155	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-18-m0.u156	will be raised: minimum wage, minimum wage, pension payments, state aid to families with children, the fight against corruption will continue. I believe that soon there will be a time when our country will take a decent place among other nations of the world, a guarantee for a talented and hardworking Ukrainian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-18-m0.u157	I'd like to invite Yuri Prokopchuk. It will be followed by Vasile Derevljany, a faction of "BUT is the Fatherland". Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-18-m0.u158	Yuri Prokopchuk, "BUT is the Fatherland", Ravenshkina. The Honourable Chairman, the Honorable Colleagues, the Honourable Ukrainian Citizens, I inform you of the fact that the commission of the crime is the head of the Radivilova Reservoir, Mr. Stankovic. On March 14th, a member of the Regional Council of Fathers and the head of the school, Vojislav Stepanovich, was in his place of work. He was approached by young men, along with an executive from the Bezpalov administration, Oleg Volodymyrovich, for the purpose of interviewing, as they said. What was the interview? The deputy of the circuit board of the Vojciekhovsky Rostislav Stepanović was invited to the car, brought to the edge of the forest, where he was asked what claims he had to the head of the Radiville District Administration by Mr. Stankević’s Party of Regions, and then brutally beaten. Only the ability to escape these bandits has given us the opportunity, perhaps today, to ignore what we have been looking at in journalists. Deputy District Council of Vojciekhovsky Rostislav Stepanovich is now in the hospital. Law - enforcement officials are delaying the investigation of this shameful fact of crime. Therefore, in the form of a parliamentary request, I ask the Attorney General's Office and the Ministry of Internal Affairs to give this a proper assessment and to bring to justice the criminal responsibility of the perpetrator of the crime, the head of the Radivillian Paradise Administration of the Plain Region and the perpetrators. That's the first part of my speech. Sadly, today’s authorities do more than destroy one another. I'm reporting the destruction of a state-owned company called the Bilocerkow Military Trade, which has 1,650 people standing behind it. This enterprise, which has properly fed 11,000 military personnel with high quality, is an enterprise that has provided services to schools, hospitals, a state-owned enterprise that has not been rewarded in addition to its success, recognized as a better enterprise in 2008, 2009, which has never had any debts, but only a small achievement and with high quality provided by military and civil organizations. Today, the Ministry of Defense is destroying this enterprise. Instead, some private structures are being introduced called the Lead Food Company of the Armed Forces.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-18-m0.u159	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-18-m0.u160	Without agreeing with the highest management of the Ministry of Defense, this shameful fact could not have happened. So my second call to the Attorney General, to the Ukrainian Security Service, and to the President is to deal with the facts of corruption, because there was an allocation of 107 million, which, by the way, did not come to those who were supposed to receive them, and commercial structures were being set up. Obviously, it's not a waste. Please consider this to be my MP's request.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-18-m0.u161	Please prepare appropriate parliamentary requests. I'd like to invite Vassil Wooden, the "BOUT" faction, "The Fatherland." He will be followed by Vladimir Litvinov, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-18-m0.u162	Vasile Derevljany, BEUT faction, Fatherland, Ternopilščina. Dear voters! Today’s anti - Ukrainian authorities, Yanukovich, report positive social and economic developments on all official scales. But the real picture of the survival of the Ukrainian nation looks very different. From this rostrum, I want to break it between the better lives of the Galician Ukrainians, and especially in Ternopolska under Yanukovic's authority. Recently, the Ternopolitans appreciated the year of Januković’s activities and his team, and they freely responded to the work of the authorities. So out of 365 responses, there was no positive response to Yanukovich’s authority. No ternopolski thanked Yanukovic or supported his team. The city’s inhabitants have caused the actions of today’s authorities to be viewed as a deliberate abuse of the people. Today, in the area of direction given by the superior authorities, the leaders of the regiments are conducting what is known as a reorganization in various fields. Hospitals, rural clinics, kindergartens, cultural buildings, clubs, libraries, and the mass reduction of nurses, teachers, and other budget workers are closed down, forcing small and medium - size businesses to finance their party election promises. Food prices, housing and utility tariffs, energy, fuel, and so on are rising. As an example. The increase in food prices in the Ternopil region in March 2011 for the administration of Azarov in relation to prices in 2009 for the government of Timoshenko is as follows: the flour of the higher species increased by 36 per cent; bread increased by 52 per cent; pasta rose by 58 per cent; manna grain increased by 58 per cent; Greek grain increased by 160 per cent; rice increased by 145 per cent; milk increased by 76 per cent; cream increased by 121 per cent; potatoes by 227 per cent; cabbage increased by 96 per cent; and sugar sand increased by 150 per cent. Today’s power of Januković is destroying Ukraine and everything Ukrainian. She has no interest in the health, education, and culture of the Ukrainian nation. The financing of the humanitarian sector has been severely reduced in the Ternopil region. Yes, children’s kindergartens are being closed in the Lanovecki region, rural libraries are being closed in the Kremenac region, and Horstivska, Kopicinecka, Grimil County Hospitals are closing in the Husatin region. In the constituency of the Party’s members, Fatherishkina was able to prevent the looting of veterinary medicine. In today’s situation, we must more than ever be united and form a single Ukrainian team under the leadership of Yulia Timoshenko to combat this.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-18-m0.u163	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-18-m0.u164	To combat this anti-Ukrainian government, Yanukovic. My statement is to be considered a request to the government of Azar. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-18-m0.u165	Please form an appropriate address. Vladimir Litvinov, faction of the Party of Regions, is invited to speak, followed by Dmitry Schlemko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-18-m0.u166	Vladimir Litvinov, Party of Regions. Dear Presidium! Deputies! Respectable voters! Not long ago, Victor Fedorovich Yanukovic had reached the brink of rule by a country that had not only a semi-destructive economy that had come into power but was entering an economic crisis. The Presidential office of Januković was at a time when it took courage and willpower to do something in the first place, not in words, but in fact to address the fundamental reforms in all areas of the State apparatus and areas of the economy, though not popular. In the course of the first year, as a representative of the multi-tousand coal industry workers, I would like to point out that this has been done by the President. At the beginning of its activities, the Government, formed by the President, adopted the coal industry in a balanced, critical state, coal mining in 2009, decreased by 10.6 per cent compared with 2008, while the wages owed to miners and social funds reached 3.5 billion dollars. The current Cabinet of Ministers, with an objective assessment of the extremely difficult state of both the economy and the coal industry in particular, did not attempt to embellish the reality in the development of the 2010 economic and social development programme and provided a modest indicator of industrial growth. At the same time, the Kabmin has carefully approached the priorities of the coal industry, taking into account the tasks identified by the Ukrainian Presidential Economic Reform Programme 2010-2014. Through the implementation of the programme, the stabilization of coal sector development for 2010 and a number of targeted long-term sectoral programmes related to modernization and technological resupply, the energy efficiency of investment programmes for the year has been improved: the decline in coal mining in public mines has been halted and more than 4 per cent of mining in the country has increased by 20 per cent, while the current wage has been paid to social funds. In doing so, wages have been almost repaid and payments to social funds have been reduced three times. This year, the provisions of labour law on wages are implemented twice a month. Through the introduction of new investment mechanisms in the development of production, such as public-private partnerships, financial leases, commercial bank loans under government guarantees. Additional government. As early as 2010, one and a half billion bracelets were included and 5.5 billion bracelets were expected in 2011. . Mechanisms. coal production is only part of a major industry reform programme; in 2011-2012 a new reform phase is under way, aimed at privatizing viable mines and eliminating mine closures. The liberalization of the coal market will increase.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-18-m0.u167	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-18-m0.u168	Ukrainian mines. To eliminate such a disgraceful phenomenon for Ukraine as unauthorized coal mining from the surface of so-called mines and legalize such mining under the control of the State, providing miners with security of work and social protection. Of course, such extensive reform of the industry requires the adoption of a whole package of legislation, which is currently being worked on by the President of Ukraine, the Cabinet of Ministers, the Supreme Council, with the inclusion of a wide range of public and industry trade unions in particular. Today, steps on the reformed coal sector are almost the first concrete steps in the years of an independent Ukraine to create an industry on a new economic and social basis that lays the foundation for the future energy independent Power. I am confident that all those planned for the Ukrainian people and the Ukrainian President, subject to political stability, will continue for the next four years.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-18-m0.u169	I'd like to invite Dmitry Schlemck, the "BOUT" faction, "The Fatherland" and finishes the hour of the "Razno" Vladimir Danilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-18-m0.u170	Dmitry Schlemko, the faction "BUT" is "Fatherland." Respectable compatriots! It seemed that it was too difficult for anyone today to be surprised by the angry wounds and problems in Ukrainian society. Yeah, no. You can prove it. And he did it for days in Focus magazine, which brought God's information into the world from which the spirit admires, in the poorest European state of our niece Ukraine, today is 21 billion. Yesterday was less than eight. Today's the 21st day. For comparison in a much richer Poland, there is only one. The total wealth of these people is $58 billion to compare and realize the magnitude of wealth the entire cost of Ukraine's budget for this year is $41 billion. The paradox is that their wealth in the last year, which government officials say was very financially complex, did not grow as a percentage, but at the same time. It would be a joy if it were not so bitter because sincere Ukrainians are rich against the mass poverty of the main population. The gap between the rich and the poor has grown over the years, but for months, the social ladder has only two poles in the world: at the top of several families of billionaires, and at the bottom, more than 80 percent of those who barely end up thinking about food, clothing and shelter daily. That patch between them, called the middle class, is deliberately destroying the especially new Tax Code. Every normal thinker asks: Where such capitals come from, especially in the Donetsks, everyone is sure to know that the great whale has a stick, and the same stick is in the Ukrainian state budget. This is where, from the budget, the money flows to the rich, and then to the offshore, especially the beloved Cyprus. This is where "money streams" are directed, more loyally "rivers," because here, according to President Ljowczyn's head of administration, he is safely holding his money, another rich "brother". They stole a $1 billion Scrooge when it costs twice as much and we're going to have another billionaire soon. As long as they steal from a wealthy Ukrainian nation, we will see the joy of their financial growth. According to today's authorities, people should be happy too, because they're growing up too. Prices go up for food, tariffs, housing services, survival problems. Indeed, inflation rose to 42.3 percent in 2010, while the government declares 9 percent not to index Ukrainian pensions, scholarships, salaries to budgeters, other social benefits. Here's the hidden source of the rich: he didn't give the people, the Ukrainian people, his "quite rich". The truth is, as the country's chief official, Mikola Azarov said, "Life has become better, life has become fun." Who's got the answer. Why, soon the people will ask the culprits.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-18-m0.u171	I'd like to invite Vladimir Danielenko, who will complete the hour of "Rizzne," please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-18-m0.u172	Dear Chief, distinguished voters! Article 47 of the Constitution provides for the right of everyone to live. The state, in turn, must create conditions under which every citizen will be able to build a living. For those in need of social protection, housing is provided free of charge by the State and local authorities. Every time I meet with voters, one of the main problems with which citizens address me is the inadequate provision of housing for Ukrainian citizens. The current provision of housing for Ukrainian citizens is disturbing, since the National Committee of Statistics says that nearly 1.3 million families are in line to obtain housing, and only up to 25,000 are provided to them. Although in fact, the number of families who need improvement in their living conditions is several times higher than the official figure. Young people in today’s world have little or no means of obtaining or acquiring housing. In the absence of housing, young citizens are unable to form families and have children, and they are divorced, leading to major social problems. One of the unprotected sectors of the population in terms of housing is the provision of war actors in Afghanistan and war conflicts in housing. In recent years, the only source of housing for the listed categories of citizens has been the share of state - budget subsidies to local budgets for the construction and acquisition of housing for military and military personnel and members of the military and primary staff who have been released to or retired from health, age, seniority, and so forth. Ukraine's State Budget 2010 Act did not provide for the award of the mentioned subsidy. The Ministry of Defence was asked by the Ministry of Finance to renew the subsidy for 2011. However, Ukraine's State Budget 2011 does not provide a subsidy from the state budget to local budgets for the construction and acquisition of housing for individual categories of citizens. So in view of the above, I am asking the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine to examine the possibility of issuing force subsidies from the state budget to local budgets for the construction and acquisition of housing for military personnel on reserve, resignation and other categories of citizens when amending the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for 2011." I am also addressing the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on National Security and Defence and the Committee on Budget Affairs with a request, at the meeting of the Committee on Facilitating the Renewal of the Subvention by the Ministry.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-18-m0.u173	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-18-m0.u174	The Ministry of Finance of Ukraine during the drafting of the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2011. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-03-18-m0.u175	Please prepare appropriate assignments. Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you that for the next two weeks, the national MPs are working in accordance with the electorate in committees and factions. On March 23rd, Wednesday at 3 p.m., there will be parliamentary hearings in the session hall of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the theme "The Earth in Ukrainian Destiny. The situation in the land area. Law enforcement of land relations and the practice of implementing it." The plenary meeting will take place on Tuesday, April 5, at 10 a.m. And as always, Monday at 11 a.m., the Conciliation Council will take place. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Good luck.
