ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, please prepare for registration. And turn on the "Race" system. [[16:00:35]] "To" is 388. Sorry, they registered cards in the 388 National Deputies Sessional Hall. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Dear National Deputies! We are continuing our consideration of the issues set out in the schedule for today. Dear colleagues, the draft Act amending certain legislative acts to simplify the procedure for the delimitation of state and municipal property is under consideration. [[Registration number 9104]] We put him on the stand for the day, and the committee prepared him for consideration. So I'm voting on your proposal to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[16:02:08]] For 199 Decision taken. The rapporteur is the deputy head of the State Agency for Land Resources, Mikola Nikiforovich Kaluzny. Correspondent is Head of the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations, Grigory Mikolayovich Kaletnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m1.u2	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! The draft Act amending certain legislative acts to simplify the process of decoupling state and municipal property has been developed to implement the National Action Plan 2011 for the implementation of the Economic and Social Reform Programme. The conceptual idea underlying the draft law is to improve the legal and regulatory framework in the area of the division of state and municipal property and to simplify the land-dismantling procedure, to grant regional government authorities the right to decide on the delimitation of state and municipal property, to revoke the State act on municipal property rights to land and to certify municipal property rights through the introduction of data into the State Land cadastre. The formation of land areas of municipal property outside populated areas and land areas of state and municipal property within populated areas. Determining land boundaries only on cadastral plans, not on the basis of a clear definition of the composition and content of projects, by the Land Authority on the delimitation of state and municipal property. The removal of legal settlements between the Ukrainian Land Code and the Ukrainian Law on the Delimitation of Lands of State and Municipal Property. The preparation of the law, in addition to the experts of the Land Agency, was carried out by leading experts in the Earth Science and Research System. I would like to point out, honourable national MPs, that the adoption of this bill will reduce the budgetary costs of carrying out work on the delimitation of state and municipal property. To date, this is 2.5 billion dollars. And once the bill is passed, it will cost the state and local authorities 600 million dollars. It is worth noting that the general conclusion of the main management is that the first reading of the project can be based on the comments made. Based on what you've been taught, I'd like to support you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m1.u3	Thank you, thank you. Please sit down. Gregory Mikolaiovich Kaletnik, head of the Committee on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m1.u4	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! The committee considered the bill. And I'll let you know the committee's decision. The committee notes that the draft law contains significant shortcomings and disagreements, which, unfortunately, will not simplify or remove the problem of the delimitation of state and municipal property. The bill was drafted without taking into account the applicable legislation. The bill does not define the procedure for the State to register the ownership of the State and the territorial community to separate land areas. The project amends article 84 of the Land Code to regulate ownership of the Earth Code. And they don't contain defined lands or change the Water Code. The bill does not have the only approach to land delimitation. Thus, at the time of the delimitation of forest land, it is proposed to refer it immediately to the land of state ownership solely on the grounds that it is in the constant use of forestry enterprises. The changes proposed under the Ukrainian Law on the Distinguishment of Lands of State and Municipal Property include a number of gaps, contradictions, in particular not justified by the reference to land of state ownership and land of farm societies, whose statutory capitals include even a small number of shares, rations belonging to the State. It also raises serious objections to the transfer of land to state property, which includes unfinished construction facilities and well - preserved facilities, including those in private property. The "final position" of the proposed bill is contrary to article 13 of the Constitution, which stipulates that all subjects of property rights are equal before the law. Despite this, however, the project’s position contains a peremptory norm, which all countries that have not been transferred to municipal property have since 2015.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m1.u5	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m1.u6	It narrows down the rights of municipal property. In view of the foregoing, the Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Law amending certain legislative acts to revert to the subject of the law of the legislative initiative. [[on Simplification of Procedure]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m1.u7	Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up for this bill. Please put the names of the national deputies on the information board. National deputy Grivkovsky refuses. Hanusztak, "BUT" faction, "The Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m1.u8	I'm sorry, I'm against it. Not that button. Gentlemen, the President has just spoken at a municipal forum and declared that the priority is to develop local self-government. In fact, we see a slippery expansion and centralization. The principles of land delimitation in the bill are not defined. So the bill doesn't even have a basis for discussion, it just doesn't have one. How can we consider a bill that has no substance in itself? It's, in fact, a raid. I mean, I came, I said it was mine, I took it. Who's going to pay for this? It's totally wrong. A normal approach, which would be: everything that is not defined by state, within the boundaries of the land, is left in communal property, except, of course, private land. This approach is perfectly logical, perfectly normal. In this case, what the government is offering is something that is contrary to what the President says. Respectfully, if not local self - government, at least the President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m1.u9	Vladimir Karpuk, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m1.u10	Vladimir Karpuk. Please pass the word to Roman Tkachu.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m1.u11	Roman Tuck, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m1.u12	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! Well, first of all, in principle, we should welcome the government's initiative that they don't want to finally put a stop to the issue of land delimitation. You know that this law has already been passed in 2004, but unfortunately, nothing has been done today in this regard, starting with such things as an act that testifies to property rights on land of state property, municipal property, that is, nothing is done. And in this regard, we should welcome the initiative of the State Commission. But I'd like to, and here my colleagues have been saying two things. The logic of the distinction says that the final stage of the distinction should be the setting of boundary signs in kind: this is the land of government property, this is the land of municipal property. This bill does not foresee it, it only speaks of cadastral mapping. This is the first question. And second, most importantly, what my predecessor said is that it's even scarier here. This is not a matter of demarcating state and municipal property. The last paragraph of the bill makes it clear that if this work is not carried out by January 1, 2015, all countries will become land of state ownership. What does that mean? That if there is no funding and there is no funding, since it is not foreseen this year, is not foreseen for the following year, this work will not actually be carried out. This means that in two years, those lands that would logically be municipal, municipal, will automatically become national. What are we talking about? This is a direct violation of the Constitution of Ukraine. Therefore, our committee, I believe, has done so consistently and correctly, and the proposal is logical: to send this bill to the subject of the legislative initiative for further work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m1.u13	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate is over. I remind you, fellow Members, that the committee is proposing that the subject be returned to the legislative initiative of the draft law. Instead, the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority in its recommendations stated that the bill could be adopted as a basis. So, honourable national MPs, I'm putting to the vote a proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending certain legislative acts. [[on the simplification of the procedure for the delimitation of State and municipal property]] [[Registration number 9104]] Please vote. [[16:12:03]] For 205 The decision is not taken. I am voting on a proposal by the committee to return the bill to the subject of the right of legislative initiative for pre-operation. Please be sure. [[16:12:31]] For 246 Decision taken. Honourable National Deputies, two factions: the "BUT" faction, the "Fatherland", the "Our Ukraine – the People's Self-Defense" faction, demand a recess to hold a meeting of the Conciliation Council, and are ready to make a statement. Sergey Shevchuk will make the statement. We need to work hard, dear fellows. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m1.u14	Dear national MPs, distinguished voters! As you know, all the leading European politicians and European institutions have condemned the methods of fighting the opposition of the Ukrainian authorities. The courts over Julia Timoshenko and Yuri Lucenko, other government officials of the previous government, have demonstrated a subtle style of government action that uses law enforcement as a punitive mechanism against opposition. But until recently, similar methods have been found only in the legal plane, and this is November 1st. Violent and criminal acts were under way. It was November 1st that the city of Covella was elected mayor of the city of the district subordination of the representative of Oleg Kinder's "Clock of Yulia Timoshenko". The year of work demonstrated the principles and vigor of the new measure. It was not governed by standard methods of administrative pressure in the form of a backpack or a spice, and it advocates the interests of the community and its ideological beliefs. It was on the anniversary of the work of the mayor of Booth that his new home was set on fire at two o’clock in the night, not by a palace, as the unlovers write, but by a wooden house constructed from the bristle, in which the family had not yet settled. The mayor himself has no version of it, except for a deliberate arson. He does not point to political motivation. Yet, local media authorities have already begun preparing, implying, just think, for self - arson as a form of self - advertising. I quote, "The explosions, after which the burners won the elections, have long been a kind of electoral technology," the end of the quote. That is, instead of human compassion for the arsonists, they ask to check the cost of a wooden building that burned to the ground. People who have spoken in defense of the mayor are profanely shaved. I would like to ask if my conscience even spent the night in such writings. We require law enforcement authorities to investigate this crime as soon as possible, and to report to the Minister of Internal Affairs in Parliament on the day of the government. I ask you to consider my statement as a request to Mr. Mohilov, Minister of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. And at the same time, I want to help him get rid of the self-occupation version of short-closure, as is often written because the house wasn't connected to the power grid. Dear colleagues! Traditionally, young men were taught in Ukraine: Build a house, plant a tree, grow a son. The new authority distorts this national wisdom: steal a house in the reserve, cut off the forest for new possessions, and make the son a deputy. The end of such authority will be natural.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m1.u15	Dear National Deputies! I ask the Secretariat to form this statement as a parliamentary request to those to whom it is addressed. Dear National Deputies! I am announcing for consideration the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Contracts for Distribution. [[on the improvement of the mechanism for the conclusion of distribution agreements]] [[9357]] The proposal was short-circuited. I'm betting on the vote on this proposal. [[16:16:44]] For 219 Decision taken. The reporter is national deputy Yuri Karakai. The Coroner is the head of the Economic Policy Committee of Alexy Plotnikov.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m1.u16	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! The bill provides for the improvement of the current Ukrainian Law on Product Allocation Agreements, since the basic law was already adopted in 1999. It's been 12 years. There is an advanced world experience in this area. Regrettably, in Ukraine over the past 12 years, there is little to boast about the distribution agreements. The bill is very small, it's made up of two pages. It is predicted that the production of strategic fossil fuels, especially oil and gas, is becoming more and more technical and technologically difficult and more expensive for money. So generally, there are consortia that are specialized in the world, which have specialized equipment and specialized technology. The bill also provides for the protection of the interests of the domestic business, since in international experience the bill provides for mandatory participation in such a project together with, if necessary, a foreign company, a compulsory participation of a domestic company, including a State. It is also envisaged to clarify the meaning of the terms "investor" and "participant" in order to prevent further double interpretation of the results of the competition. Thank you. A request for support.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m1.u17	Thank you, too. Alexi Plotnikov has the floor from the committee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m1.u18	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Economic Policy at its meeting on 1 November 2011 reviewed the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Contracts for Distribution of Produce, submitted by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Karakay, dated 28.10.2011. [[on the improvement of the mechanism for the conclusion of contracts for the implementation of products]] [[Registration number 9357]] The bill proposes to amend Ukraine's law, allowing the State to join projects under the terms of the production distribution agreements, along with operational contracts with world-run oil and other mining companies, also with profile Ukrainian state companies. This is particularly important when it comes to profile Ukrainian state companies, or their respective subsidiaries, or their associations, for their participation, thereby stimulating both the development of individual companies and the sector as a whole, and also clarifying the terminology used in the Law on Product Allocation Agreements and its unification with a view to preventing diversity. The committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft law amending the Act on Contracts for Distribution of Produce, submitted by the national MP Karakai, to be adopted on the first reading as a basis. [[on the improvement of the mechanism for the conclusion of distribution agreements]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m1.u19	Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up for this bill. Yes, please put the names of the national deputies on the board. Sergey Gordienko, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m1.u20	Sergei Gordijenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company, Poltavščina. I would like to start by saying that the drafter of the bill said that the production of natural resources -- oil, gas condensate -- is becoming more expensive. Of course, it does, for in effect, as in colonial lands, all the things that were investigated were destroyed, awakened, and arranged in Soviet times. I'd like to draw attention to that. The author of the bill, which in his bill 9360 he cleans up so that local self-government authorities will have an impact on the agreement on the allocation of these areas. And more importantly, I'm getting my attention. Because it's very relevant to Poltavščina, you don't want to put at least 10 percent of the rent where oil, gas and condensate are extracted. You waste the natural environment, you rob people of normal water, and you don't even give a penny to the development of these territorial communities. Therefore, it is also relevant to make changes to the budget code itself, and we need to think very seriously about how to vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m1.u21	Gregory Smythuch, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m1.u22	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! And my personal opinion has always been and is consistent in terms of the supremacy of our nation. The nadra of our nation is limited, and we must do everything we can to ensure that the future generation of these nadra remains for them, even though the remainder remains for them. And so we're guided by the fact that today we don't have technology, today we're engaging the world's leading giant corporations that come out of the living power of our nation. And it will happen that our future generation, in my mind, will have nothing left. Why are we talking about a field of stimulation such as oil and gas? But they're profitable enough today, even above all, so you'll get it then. Why don't we talk about waste, why don't we talk about dumps, why don't we talk about other issues that need to be improved environmentally and given priority there? No, we're talking about oil and gas, a very tasty pie. I wonder at all, why is this question relevant today? Why are we as the national deputies who took an oath here, not standing up for article 13 of the Constitution and 14? Why is the Head of the Supreme Council on this matter? Doesn't that raise the question? Because it is our national wealth of our nation, our Ukrainian people. And if we can't develop today, tomorrow's generation will have technological capabilities, they'll be able to acquire, they'll be able to develop this field. I object to this lobbying law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m1.u23	Ladies and gentlemen, the committee is proposing to adopt the bill as a basis. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please withdraw the vote. He has the right to speak to Yuri Carmazin for a minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m1.u24	Dear National Deputies! Yuri Carmazin. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, well, think about it: This morning we're setting up this project. There are no conclusions from the expert offices. Right after lunch, we're looking at it. Why? I'll tell you why. Open up, look at the changes that are being proposed. See article six. I'm, by the way, telling you what this law is about. The President vetoed and wrote about the distribution of production. Then, in the summer, you wrote that you had adopted a lobbyist bill with 242 votes, a corrupt bill. This bill concludes lobbyism, this is the top of the lobby. Why? Because here you're giving a new definition of an investor, you're giving a new definition in article 6, you're writing, in case a user with a special license to use and start a business on the terms and conditions provided for in article 6, is willing to make an agreement on the distribution of products. Such an agreement by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine can also be concluded without a competition. What's not clear to you here? Who else does not understand?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m1.u25	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m1.u26	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! So to you, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, without conclusion, without expertise, including the expertise provided for by law.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m1.u27	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich, thank you. Sergey Sobolev, "BUT" faction, "The Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m1.u28	Dear colleagues! I think anyone who's read this text understands without any expertise the bill's intended for. In fact, this is the legalization of the scheme whereby the further distribution of the nadr will take place outside the competition, when they'll split up, in fact, into a general scheme that we've set up with you in a very difficult struggle, legislatively regulated order. Now you can do it all out of the law, because there will be exclusions that make it possible to act on this very scheme as key. Moreover, our faction believes that even if there were any conclusions to this bill, such a bill, which directly affects the revenue of the budget, cannot be considered without a representative of the Ministry of Finance, who has to report here on how the billions of losses will be compensated if this law takes effect. We throw crumbs directly to the Chernobyls and Afghans, claiming that there is no money, you see. And when you have to try to get billions out of the budget, everyone keeps quiet and pretends to be.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m1.u29	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m1.u30	..representative of the Ministry of Finance, report on how it will compensate for the billions of budget losses. We will not vote in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m1.u31	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill is closed. I'm bringing to your well-known, distinguished national MPs that on Monday at the Conciliation Council, the Cabinet of Ministers suggested that we consider this bill. I turned to the members of the Conciliation Council and asked if there were any objections. There were no objections. And at the same time, there's the committee's decision, and there's the conclusion of the scientific expertise that you're given. Thus, from a formal point of view, the Rules are complied with. But the decision to make is absolutely here in the session room to you, honourable national deputies. That's why I'm asking for your attention! I'm voting on the committee's proposal for adoption as the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Product Allocation Agreements. [[on the improvement of the mechanism for the conclusion of distribution agreements]] The main scientific and expert office also believes that the bill can be adopted as a basis. Please vote. [[16:28:57]] For 239. Decision taken. The factions, please. Region Party - 185, Yulia Timoshenko Block - 0, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" - 5, Communists - 0, "Reforms for the Future" - 20, National Party - 20, non-factional - 9. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose to you the draft Act amending some of Ukraine's laws on the completion of debt repayment procedures for fuel and energy companies. The rapporteur is Deputy Minister of Energy and Coal Industry Czech Sergey Mihajlovich. There's no minister because he's on a mission, and he's negotiating at Gazprom. And the co-reporter is the deputy head of the Committee on Fuel and Energy, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security, Mikola Romanyuk. The committee suggests that the issue be dealt with in a simplified manner. I'm betting on the vote on this proposal. Well, dear colleagues, your second offer, if not, will be implemented. [[16:30:12]] For 234 Decision taken. Please, Sergey Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m1.u32	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The bill was designed to carry out the Presidential mandate of 28 January of this year to ensure the proper implementation of the special procedure for the repayment of debts by companies of the fuel and energy complex. The provisions of this bill are aimed at sorting out specific provisions of the Ukrainian Law on Measures to Ensure the Permanent Functioning of Fuel and Energy Enterprises, which are not considered to be valid. In particular, the law provides for the establishment of a special debt repayment procedure until January 1, 2012. The bill is also intended to regulate the suspension of the moratorium on the execution of court decisions by the enforcement authorities on the amounts of debt incurred by 1 January 2007 and to determine by a separate order the delay in the enforcement of court decisions relating to the payments made to the register of undertakings of the fuel and energy complex, which arose from 1 January 2007 to 1 January 2011, by amending the Ukrainian Law on Enforcement to improve the enforcement procedure. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m1.u33	Thank you, too. Mikola Prokopovich Romanyuk, deputy chairman of the committee, reports on the PEC Committee’s decision. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m1.u34	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The Committee on Fuel and Energy Complex, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security at its meeting on 21 September 2011 reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws on the Completion of Debt Procedures for Fuel and Energy Enterprises, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. [[Registration number 9057]] The purpose of the bill under consideration is to organise separate rules of the law on measures aimed at ensuring the permanent functioning of fuel and energy companies that are not considered to be valid, providing for a special procedure for the repayment of debts by 1 January 2012. The Budget Committee at its meeting on 21 September 2011, following a review of the draft Law, decided that the bill had no impact on the budget. [[Registration number 9057]] In the case of the adoption of the law, it may become effective, according to the law. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine believes that the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian laws on the completion of the procedure for repayment of debts by companies of the fuel and energy complex can be adopted in the first reading, taking into account the comments and proposals made. As a result of the discussion, the Committee on Fuel and Energy has decided to recommend a bill to the Supreme Council of Ukraine in its first reading. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m1.u35	Dear National Deputies! Please sign up for this bill. Please sign in. The names of the national deputies should be shown on the information board. Gregory Smythuch, faction of the Party of the Regions. John Kirilenko will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m1.u36	Initially, a replication of the law of a lobbyist character. For some reason they're going through so fast at our place in the Supreme Council that they haven't been able to register, and we're taking them in right now. This, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, is here to see you. The second question. As it happened, the energy complex is the most profitable sector in the world. How did it happen that we are squeezing coal today? How did it happen that we were getting cheap gas in Ukraine? How did it happen that we should make an attractive privatisation component for the energy complex? Why should we support this? Why should we do these privileges?Oh, my God! It's a very high-income sector. And you know that these interests in privatizing the oblenergo and so on, so on, including with the participation of foreign companies. For some reason, they don't create jobs, factories, ploughing factories, tractors, and so on. No, it's not. They privatize an important artery of the state -- energy and finance. And our country, you and I, by pressing the buttons, we're giving them the opportunity not only to earn money, but we're stimulating these profits at the expense of government funds. Both the Supreme Council and its leadership support this ideology. Similarly, these laws are fast - moving in the Supreme Council following a reduced procedure so that no one can see. Remember, there was such an anecdote at the Soviet authorities: "Why do molded potatoes plant at night? Don't let the Colorado bug see." Why, though, does Ukraine accept such important questions after a short - term program? Don't nobody understand. So no one would ask, why, for what reasons, for what costs, and so on, is this still going on? But people are good, come on. I'm 50 years old, I don't think about myself, I think about kids, I think about grandchildren, let God live to this, I think about them that we're going to leave them. We all have good enough lives, wages, opportunities and so on. Why do we take such steps? Why we're doing this.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m1.u37	Will you finish, please, what are you looking at me for?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m1.u38	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, why we are working with your administration.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m1.u39	Thank you. I ask the honorary colleague to cross the road to the Cabinet of Ministers and ask questions there. Ivan Kirilenko. Sergey Sobolev, please. That's where the smart guys came in.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m1.u40	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I don't know who's smart, but how can it be that in one year we're setting up a foam for the population, and in the same year, we're writing down 24 billion for the energy companies, and now we're setting a five-year term for which they shouldn't pay the debts they've made to state enterprises, including NAK Naftogaz Ukraine. So, please tell me, what's the logic? The 24 billion were written down almost the same day. When the population was set up to pay for utilities. And now we go on with the same policy. At least consider what this is, a bill signed by Azar. Who should be brought to criminal responsibility in 365 articles: Azarova and those who vote in this room for the next billions that you write down to energy private companies. So my proposal is this. How could the committee establish that there was no budget loss? If it's clear that every time you do that, it's another billion that's taken out of the budget. What's more, there's no money in the company today, set a deadline, okay, I understand, let without a penny pay for it all. And you see what this bill does -- the five-year deadline is for these companies to be able to get all the money out of the budget. That's why it's a pure lobbyist bill. No wonder there are people in this session room who got the money for it, I'm sure of it. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, confirm that you are the Head of the Supreme Council! There can be no vote in the Supreme Council on the cancellation of debts from private energy companies when a penny is set up for the population. I have an offer. We need to invite the Attorney General to the session room, let him explain how such bills can appear in the session room; who is personally responsible for this. I'd like to see Azarov here! Not tomorrow he'll report to the President.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m1.u41	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m1.u42	He has to tell us why he's crying with crocodile tears at first, he doesn't have any money in his budget, and then he makes these bills. You can't vote for him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m1.u43	Thank you. Thank you. In view of the serious accusation that the Supreme Council has received money for the billings, with your permission, I will make a formal appeal to the Attorney General's Office to investigate them and to give a proper witness to our esteemed colleague, who, which money has received from this account. If not, to speak of it from the rostrum of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Sergey Gordienko, please, the Communist faction, you have the right to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m1.u44	Sergey Gordienko, faction of the Ukrainian Company. I think by reading this bill, let's give an honest answer to whether, once this bill is passed, the water ducts, other institutions that will have debts will be shut down. Does this really eliminate the moratorium that exists before 2013? What fate awaits the central Donbas mine, which has a huge energy component, and how does the government extinguish this energy component with its funds, and today it has a huge debt? So won't these mines then be bankrupted and privatized? So when the faction of the Company of Ukraine discussed the bill, we decided not to support the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m1.u45	Thank you. Paul Zebravsky, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m1.u46	A rather interesting thesis was that it did not require any extra expense from the budget, that is, it had already been stolen from the law. It's sad to say that when we were looking at 24 billion cheating, we were looking at it as a reduced procedure in the first reading and in general. This is certainly the fault of those who voted in favour of the shortened procedure and who adopted the bill. Who are we cheating on? I'm lying. What is deception? This is an office in a gas distribution network, which is government property. And they're exploiting government property, they're getting profits, and we're still writing them down that they're not paying anything at all. The same thing is happening in the energy industry. Guys, how much can this budget go down? How much can you rob? Look, after that, 24 billion of us and Shkutzak sent a request to the President for the non-signature of this bill. I did it the other way around. Literally, after you received the letter. The bill was signed. I understand you want to become a billionaire in one year, my friends, if you're long enough, you'll make that money. We won't.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m1.u47	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m1.u48	We will not vote in favour of this bill, not only as a lobbyist, but as a criminal and directed against the Ukrainian producer.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m1.u49	Please, what about breaking the Rules?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m1.u50	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! So we're looking at the law essentially. And in fact, we didn't have to look at it at all, we didn't have the right to do it. And because the text of the draft on changes to paragraph 3.7 of Article 3 of the Law on Measures aimed at ensuring the permanent functioning of PEC enterprises and on executive conduct do not correspond to the text of the corresponding changes set out in the comparative table to a project that contradicts the sixth part of article 91 of the Supreme Council Rules. And you have been told that according to part two of article 92, he should be refused registration of this bill because he was filed in violation of articles 90 and 91 of this Law. So, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich, I ask you not to vote, remove this bill in connection with the violation of the Law on the Rules, invite the government to conduct an expert opinion on this bill, including corruption, anti-corruption expertise.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m1.u51	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill is closed. I remind you, Your Honor, that this bill, signed by the Prime Minister of Ukraine, came to the Supreme Council on 16 July 2011. Just a minute. So that he could be considered by a science-expert agency that recommended accepting him as a basis, and considered by a committee that also proposes to accept him as a basis. At the same time, the speakers expressed their doubts and deep warnings. With this in mind, I have no right to take the bill off the table, but to put it to a vote on acceptance as a basis for amending some of Ukraine's laws on the completion of debt repayment procedures for companies in the fuel and energy complex. [[Registration number 9057]] Please vote. It's all formal. Well, please, I'm reading you the documents I have, please. [[16:44:50]] For-200 The decision is not taken. I'm betting on a second motion to re-read the draft law. What, what? Take down the vote. The second is the offer. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please! Return the subject to the right of legislative initiative for further development. Please vote. [[16:45:28]] For 238. Decision taken. Justice prevails. We've seen it, we've talked about it, and it's okay. Dear National Deputies! I am announcing a draft Act amending the Law on Space Activities in Ukraine. [[on improving national regulation and governance]] [[Registration number 9036]] The Committee and the National Deputies propose to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[16:46:05]] For the 220. Decision taken. Dear National Deputies! I was supposed to report this bill to the head of the space agency. At the same time, I received a letter from the Cabinet of Ministers, signed by the prime minister, who will report to Drusha Sergiy Alexiyovich. I'm just asking the officials of the Cabinet next time to point out the reason why this person is missing. Drought is the deputy head of the State Space Agency. That's not what you thought. Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m1.u52	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! Your opinion is proposed by a bill amending the Law on Space Activities in Ukraine. Ensuring the development of modern space technologies in Ukraine is an important factor in determining the strategic location of the state in the world. Ukraine’s space programmes, which are approved by Ukrainian laws, have provided for the solution of urgent problems in space development during the years of independence, namely the preservation of scientific and productive potential in the interests of the national economy and security; the exit to the international space market with its own products and services; the integration of Ukraine into the International Space Community; the formation of the foundations of the internal market for space services; and the implementation of the first steps towards commercialization of space activities. Currently, Ukraine's space activities provide it with a decent place among a relatively small number of nations in the world who are able to create rocket-space technology in a closed cycle. The basic principles of space activity in the country are defined by the Ukrainian Space Act, adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 15.11.1996. [[No. 502]] Although the law has been passed more than 10 years ago, it is a key normative instrument in the field and successfully regulates the vast majority of legal issues. At the same time, life is moving forward, and even good laws need clarification. In general, the drafting of the bill involves administrative reform. Major changes to the law: the name “National Space Agency” has been changed to the central authority of the executive authority on space activities; a new provision has been added for the creation and operation of terrestrial and space segments, satellite communication, speech and remote sensing systems on Earth, space environment control and analysis, time-time and navigational security; a new position has been added for the creation of space objects.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m1.u53	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m1.u54	Please support this law in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m1.u55	Thank you, too, Sergey Alexiovich. Have a seat, please. Natalia Juryovna Kraljevska, please. Mikhailo Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m1.u56	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The Committee on Industrial, Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship at its meeting on 7 September 2011 reviewed the draft Act amending the Law on Space Activities of Ukraine, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. [[on improving national regulation and governance]] [[Registration number 9036]] The aim of the bill is to further improve the regulatory and legal regulation of space activities in Ukraine. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in its conclusion of 19.08.2011, found that the first reading of the draft could be based on the comments made. Given that the space sector ensures the gradual development of the economy of the state, it supports the necessary level of its scientific and technical potential, and the members of the committee have made a decision. Ukraine's draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Space Act on Improving State Regulation and Governance, Registration No. 9036, introduce to the Supreme Council of Ukraine and propose a session hall to accept it as a basis. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m1.u57	Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this bill? Then please sign in. And put the names of the national deputies on the information board. National Deputy Soloshenko, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m1.u58	Dear colleagues, the bill amends the Laws on Space Activities of Ukraine to rename the National Space Agency to the central executive body on space activities. In addition, the law is complemented by two new provisions on the establishment and operation of terrestrial and space segments of satellite systems, as well as on the establishment of space-based units of departmental paramilitary protection. I note that the law replaces the name of the body concerned with the central authority of the executive body on space activities with the potential risk of depriving the agency of safeguards against the change of its own status. However, taking into account the Presidential Decree on Optimization of the System of Central Executives and the adoption of the new provision on the State Space Agency, also reflected in the Presidential Decree, the questions of the State Space Agency of Ukraine, I think it is appropriate to initiate changes in this drafting and to invite MPs to adopt the bill as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m1.u59	Taras Blackwall, Reform Group for the Future, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m1.u60	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues of the Ukrainian National Deputies! Our parliamentary faction has considered this bill at its meeting and we have concluded that three points where changes are made are not significant, minor, but they were necessary to bring this bill to the standard form in which we usually formulate laws on the relevant authorities. So for most of the bodies, the central executives have made these changes. In this case, there is another gap where the law has a clear name, which is in force today, to the executive branch, but as a result of certain reorganizations, these changes may take place, may be a modified body. To be preserved for permanent inheritance, in this case, there was no misunderstanding for the future, we understand that it is absolutely appropriate here to apply the same position regarding the application of appointment to the central executive authority in the field of space activities. We also fully support the fact that the first point that goes into the meaningful part is to be noted for the creation and operation of Earth and space segments of satellite systems. This too had to be determined in the bill. We do not have any extreme warnings about the last paragraph of the law on the creation of a separate special protection system, the paramilitary protection of such objects, but we have raised a question, regretting that we cannot ask this question to the representative of the central executive body in this area. What, though, are specific objects that will be protected? Those objects that are no longer subject to certain other forms of protection today — ominous protection, public service, and so forth. How important this last paragraph is. But at the same time, we believe that in the first reading a law can be passed, and in principle it is suitable enough to vote for it, perhaps in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m1.u61	Alexander Blackwolf, the faction of our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m1.u62	Dear friends! Now in the process of considering this bill, I decided to figure out how much the reporter would be talking about the essence of the bill, and how many general phrases that would lead him to that. What is two minutes a report? So, according to the bill, the reporter said exactly 20 seconds. And as you can understand, this is a completely unserious view of such an important state function of the Supreme Council as the adoption of laws. In fact, it's not work, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, it's propaganda work, it's imitation by the Supreme Council of Lawmaking. And essentially the law itself. If we had the opportunity to ask the question, we would like to ask the following question. It used to be a national agency. Then the president renamed him a state agency. Now it's written as a central organ. But the central authority might not be an agency, but let's say we hand over its functions to the Ministry of Infrastructure and end it. So I have a question for everyone. By adopting this law, are we not destroying Ukraine’s space agency and destroying Ukraine’s space sector? What's more, we've been trying to sell everything out of the previous bill and let it all go to privatization. I think everyone needs to think about whether or not it's worth asking these questions, and if they are. and whether it is worth considering in a simplified way. And if they are justified, in that case do we have the right to destroy the space sector of Ukraine? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m1.u63	Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. I think we listened very carefully to the representative of the State Space Agency. He was just talking about the need to improve the work of this office. Therefore, honourable colleagues, I remind you of the conclusion and proposal of the committee: to accept the bill as a basis. The main scientific and expert management in its recommendations also concluded that there is good reason to recommend a bill to the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a basis. [[Registration number 9036]] I'm voting on this motion, please vote. [[16:57:13]] For 284 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, I remind you that the committees, the factions, including during the Conciliation Council meeting, agreed on the need to consider this plenary week before hundreds of bills. So I answer the question that my colleague asked me. How can we consider all these questions in full procedure? There is one way out of this: to work until the day-to-day issues are dealt with. Support can't find it. There is a need to deal with the issue of a reduced procedure. In addition, by the end of the session, nearly a thousand drafts had already been registered. To be exact is 880. Every week he registers as the legislative initiative of the National Deputies, the Cabinet of Ministers, from 40 to 50 bills. So let's make a decision. It's being advertised, calm down, please, calm down. The draft Act, the draft laws amending the Ukrainian Customs Tariff, approved by the Ukrainian Customs Tariff Act and other legislative acts are being announced for consideration. [[Registration numbers: 8452, 9031, 9042, 8452-d]] I'm putting your proposal to the vote on a reduced procedure for dealing with this issue. Please vote. Along with the fact that I totally agree with you. You need less, but better. But unfortunately, and where is the shaft? [[16:59:14]] For 242 Decision taken. Reporters: Head of the State Customs Service, Igor Kaletnik, Deputy Minister of Economic Development and Trade, Vladimir Bandurov, and Head of the Committee on Finance, Banking, Tax and Customs Policy, Vitaly Homutinnik. Please, Igor Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m1.u64	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, present! The draft Act amending the Ukrainian Customs Tariff was developed by the Ukrainian State Customs Service. [[8452 registration]] The purpose of the bill is the legislative solution to the problem of classification of air conditioners, which, for the time being, the customs tariff does not define the characteristics of the commercial subcategory "industry conditioners" by which they can be distinguished at the same time from other air conditioners, such as residential or non-residential premises. In addition, air conditioners with the same technical characteristics may have different uses and purposes. At the same time, the import duty rate for air conditioners with a capacity of between 5 and 50 kilowatts is 10 percent and another 2 and 5 percent. In the light of the legislation listed by the Ministry, it is proposed to amend the description of the product codes by which a category of air conditioners is classified and classified, not by purpose, industry and non-industrial use, but by their power. Thus, the adoption of the bill will ensure the authenticity of the declaration of the category of air conditioners mentioned, the correctness of their classification and the application of the relevant import duty rates. It should be noted that the provisions of the unamended bill are included in draft law 8452-d, which was developed by the Committee on Finance and Banking, Tax and Customs Policy. In view of the above, the Myth Service proposes to approve a comprehensive bill prepared by the People's Deputies, registered at number 8452-d. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m1.u65	I invite the Deputy Minister for Economic Development and Trade of Bandurov Vladimir Vladimir Vladimirovich. He will report on two bills: 9031, 9042. So four minutes, if you want. And then there's Vitaly Hometic.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m1.u66	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, the essence of Bill 9031. The Supreme Council passed the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Customs Tariff Act of 21.12.2010, which provides for the transfer of the Customs Tariff to the CCTV base, which is based on a harmonised system for describing and coding goods in 2007. In turn, today, when goods are exported outside the customs territory of Ukraine, export duties are managed at rates and according to product lists based on a harmonised 1996 description and coding system. Thus, for the purpose of harmonising national legislation, a draft Ukrainian law has been drafted to amend some of the laws of Ukraine, which is proposed for your attention. In addition, the bill is proposed in the Ukrainian Law on Export Export duties on legal black metals, metals and semi-manufacturers, using them to establish a standard for the application of export duties on black metals at the level of the last seventh year, the end of the transformation period for the reduction of duties on these products, in accordance with Ukraine’s obligations to WTO. And to reflect the provisions of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislative acts in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Tax Code of 2 December 2010 on the detailing of clothing and other products used in the Ukrainian Customs Tariff Act in connection with the transfer of the CCTV to the 2007 GS version. Please support this bill. Bill 9042. The point of this bill is that today, when goods are processed, import duty rates are applied in accordance with the Ukrainian Customs Tariff Act. At the same time, Ukraine’s activities as a member of the WTO primarily include the implementation of the agreements and commitments reached as a result of the negotiation process. In particular, tariffs that are already part of national legislation. In view of the above, the Government has developed a draft Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Customs Tariff, approved by the Ukrainian Customs Tariff Act, which provides for a reduction in import duty rates for motor vehicles equipped with temporary residence, for new cars with a working capacity of more than 3,000 cm cubic, boats, motor boats, motor vehicles, and sea cylinders. So the bill is aimed at harmonising national legislation in the elimination of differences between import duty rates, provided for by the Ukrainian Customs Tariff Act and the Ukrainian Act on the Ratification of the Protocol on Ukraine's Entry into the World Trade Organization. Given that all the proposals contained in these government bills are also contained in draft Law 8452-d, we propose to support Bill 8452-d. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m1.u67	Do you have everyone? Thank you. Have a seat, please. Vitali Homutinnik on the bill and on the committee's decision. Please have four minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m1.u68	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! This is about three separate government bills under registration numbers 8452, 9031 and 9042, which essentially reflect a position on changes to the Ukrainian Customs Tariff Act. The first law is the change to the Ukrainian Customs Tariff in relation to the adoption of the Tax Code, where certain groups of goods are classified, namely: clothing and other goods used. So it's not about bets, it's about product code detail. Another position, another law -- it's about unifying and simplifying the customs treatment of air conditioners by classifying them at the national level depending on the consumption power. This will be possible, this proposal will make it impossible to import powerful air conditioners at low import rates. And the third bill is to harmonize customs tariff codes to the requirements of the World Trade Organization. We have some commitments for 2012 for a number of goods related to transportation. And it's about one percent reduction, from 7 percent to 6 percent, and from 8.5 percent to 8 percent for transport, including for boats. Therefore, these three separate bills, as well as amendments to other legislative acts, which are largely technical in nature, were merged into one amended bill under registration number 8452-d. In order not to look at three separate projects and not to conduct all the procedures in Parliament that will take up three times as much of our time, we have united in one, in fact, that reflects all the positions that have been taken in government projects. So we're going to propose a committee-based draft of the bill under registration number 8452-d. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m1.u69	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please sign up for this discussion. Names of the National Deputies, please take them to the board. Taras Blackwall, the Reform Group for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m1.u70	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues of the Ukrainian National Deputies! Our parliamentary group discussed at its meeting all three government bills and a comprehensive, unified bill from the profiling committee. We came to the conclusion that, first of all, the changes proposed in these bills are really necessary, necessary, and we think it's a good thing that was ultimately a comprehensive bill, in which all these changes are combined together, not to multiply a large number of bills that complement each other. As far as the substance of these bills is concerned. First, the changes proposed to the customs tariff are aimed at providing a legislative solution to the problem of classifying industrial autonomous conditioners; detailing clothing; seeds of oil crops; and the currency of black and colored metals. These are all the specifications where we have certain WTO obligations. Part of them, the bills and the bills of general law, introduce changes in customs tariffs that clearly correspond to our obligations to the World Trade Organization in part of the specifications given. In the future, we will also have to make some adjustments that apply to differentiated subtypes of the product that was now unified under one classification. In this regard, our parliamentary group considers all these changes to be appropriate, convenient, compatible with our international obligations, in the end, those that will benefit the final Ukrainian consumer, at least forcing our manufacturer to take care to reduce the cost of his production and to be competitive in the future. In this regard, we have taken a decision to support the idea set out in all the bills, to vote in favour of the bill, which goes under the heading 8452-d, which is the MP's bill, in which all these points are combined. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m1.u71	Sergey Pavlovenko, faction of the National Party, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m1.u72	Sergey Pavlovenko, faction of the National Party. We also support Project 8452, because if we do it in a different way, we have to issue a completely different document, and we have to write in one law that applies to the Ukrainian Customs Tariff. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m1.u73	Gregory Smythuch, faction of the Party of the Regions, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m1.u74	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, of course, that the word "harmonization" or love, or so on, is a very good word, and they should be more and more present in our lives. And, of course, I'm in favour of our legislation, our capabilities always coincide with Western possibilities. And I'm here to make sure that these issues are regulated and managed. Of course, I'm a little surprised that it's the MP who's going to be accepted, because there are powerful offices and ministries, and a committee, including, of course, where they know these problems, they have these problems. And when a bill is passed, it is certainly given in such a form as to satisfy the need for any act of law. Now, as far as my point of view is concerned with the Customs Service. In my opinion, the Customs Service in any country in any economy is always working for the state. Unfortunately, it has happened that in our country there is a great deal of food, including food, that goes according to this bill, that is not produced or that has long ceased to be produced. In a way, it's uncomfortably another question, but here the Customs could be the initiator of the introduction of temporary taxes, regardless of the Soviet laws, even though we have the right, or others to direct, to stimulate the development of production for our state. What do we do as a result? We regulate, they say. What are we regulating? We regulate more and less, and we do not stimulate production in our country. And there are no items that we are discussing today. What do customs have to do, I think? Customs has to tell us, and how many of those, including air conditioners, have we imported, how many jobs have we provided by way of payment. And why don't we create, if this is a mass or a large quantity, a very large number, this millions of units today are going to drive to Ukraine, not to stimulate production here? That's what I think customs should do. And if we have only one function to fill the budget, of course, customs, which, the master plan to do, are their function, I think today's leadership.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m1.u75	Microphone, please. Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m1.u76	They're doing very well, and they need to be given what's right. But I also call for customs. Talk, suggest what we need to do to ensure that production is in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m1.u77	Thank you, too. Dear National Deputies! The bill is closed. The committee proposes the adoption of Bill 8452-d. The Chief Scientific and Expert Office is of the view that it is appropriate to recommend to the Supreme Council that it consider the possibility of adoption on the basis of draft laws, issues 8452, 9031, 9042. Dear colleagues, I will put bills to the vote according to the order of registration. Please be careful when making decisions. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Customs Tariff, approved by the Ukrainian Customs Tariff Act. [[government]] [[17:14:50]] For two. The decision is not taken. I am betting on the adoption vote on the basis of the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[government]] [[17:15:16]] For-0 The decision is not taken. The draft Law for adoption is based on the amendment of the Ukrainian Customs Tariff, approved by the Ukrainian Customs Tariff Act. [[government]] [[17:15:53]] For 1 The decision is not taken. Well, one. I'll ask the MP. Ladies and gentlemen, please ask that the MP rise up, the one who voted. Ladies and gentlemen, I now put to the vote a motion for adoption on the basis of draft law registration number 8452-d, authors: national deputies Homutinnik, Pinchuk, Horbal, Kings. Please vote. [[17:16:36]] For 267 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose to you the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Transfer of Objects of State and Municipal Property. [[on water infrastructure engineering facilities]] The rapporteur is Ukrainian national deputy Vladimir Danilenko. The correspondent is the head of the Economic Policy Committee's subcommittee, Alexander Bondar. I would like to vote on your motion to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[17:17:21]] For 218. Decision taken. Vladimir Andryovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m1.u78	Ladies and gentlemen of the national parliament, the honourable presiding officer! Local self-government is one of the main pillars of democracy in Ukraine. Realizing that protecting and strengthening local self-government is an important contribution to building a state based on the principles of democracy and decentralization of power, there is a need to strengthen the material and technical base of local self-government. During this period, this can be done by expanding the circle of objects that can be transferred free of charge from state to municipal property at the expense of enterprises that ensure the viability of cities, villages, and villages. My draft Law proposes to amend part one of article 7 of the Ukrainian Law on the Transfer of State and Municipal Property Objects by extending the list of objects that may be transferred free of charge from the state to municipal property by means of engineering infrastructure, water and sewage, including networks, buildings, equipment related to supply, water consumption, removal, sewage treatment, and the well-being of populated sites. The purpose of the bill is to create a legislative basis for strengthening the material and technical base of local self-government. The implementation of the bill does not require financial costs. The main scientific and expert management concluded with a few comments to the project and considered it possible to accept it in the first reading. Free transfer to municipal property of non-privatisation objects will help to strengthen the material and technical base of local self-government and increase the responsibility of local executives and local self-government for preserving these objects in municipal property, as well as putting them into a more efficient working regime. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m1.u79	Thank you, too. Alexander Mikolaiovich, please, regarding the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m1.u80	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The Economic Policy Committee discussed the proposed bill at its meeting and suggested that the Supreme Council should accept it as a basis for its first reading. I want to say that there is a slight change in the law, which provides for free transfer to municipal property of water supply, water consumption, sewage treatment, and well - being of the population. I would also like to say that, at the suggestion of the Cabinet of Ministers, this proposal coincides with the Scientific and Experimental Authority of the Supreme Council, it is proposed in the second reading to ban the alienation of such objects, since this is provided for in article 7 of the Ukrainian Law on the Transfer of Objects of State and Communal Property Rights, as well as in view of the fact that these objects are contained in article 5 of the Ukrainian Law on Privatisation, which prohibits the privatization of these objects. [[on thermal supply enterprises]] Therefore, if such an amendment is made in the second reading, the law can be passed in general. To date, the committee is proposing that it be accepted only in the first reading in connection to ensure that these objects are alienated from private property. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m1.u81	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, shall we discuss this matter? Please sign in. Please put the names of the national deputies on the information board. Grivkowski. He's refusing. Gordijenko Sergei, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m1.u82	I'm asking you to pass the word to Allie Alexandrovni Alexandrovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m1.u83	Alla Alexandrovna Alexandrovska
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m1.u84	Alexandrovsky, the Communist faction, the city of Harkov. You know, if there was a practice of excluding a specific provision from a law, for example, the city of Harkov, I would certainly make such an amendment. Because I feel that sometimes it is dangerous to transfer something to the local authorities, in particular the city authorities, as a result of this transfer, these items are property, this property can simply disappear. Right now in Harikov, we've had new measures for the second year. A monument is missing in honour of the proclamation in Harikov of Soviet Ukraine. And that's why Harikov was named in his day; he was indeed the first capital of Ukraine. Now there's no such thing. They're rebuilding Gorykog's park. But the sculpture of Maxim Gorkom disappeared from the central Alley of Gorkoh Park. Recently, just a week ago, they took down the Makarenko monument. It is a person whom the world worships and whom UNESCO worships, its contribution to teaching. That's what the work force said they took away the monument and set up a defense firm somewhere. I imagine that if we give all of this city's power away, it'll all go away. I therefore support the need to impose restrictions. There are indeed restrictions on the transfer to concessions, such as rest zones. And we have Goryko's park now surrounded by a huge barrier, and the question is that people are going to pay a visit to this park, a visit to this place of recreation and culture. Therefore, first reading should be accepted. However, serious amendments must be made to limit the possible ladder to these properties.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m1.u85	Taras Blackwall, the Reform Group for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m1.u86	Please give my word to my colleague Traduk Mikola Fedorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m1.u87	Mikola Trajduk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m1.u88	Dear colleagues, there is such a good saying: "The road to hell is paved with good intentions." So if someone thinks that local self-government is going to be happy that they're going to give him all these networks, so to speak, state-owned, I don't think. Because today we know, and this is what the Minister has been reporting to us in this regard, that they are now almost 90 per cent. If any other Power today holds them, then local self-government, but for today, the budget deficit for the next year is about 30 billion, how will it contain them? Therefore, if they are to be transferred, they need to make major repairs and then pass them on. That's when the local government will take him. Therefore, our faction will not vote in favour of this law. In order to realize this desire and the right desire to do so, it is necessary to do major repairs first, then it will be the right thing to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m1.u89	Gregory Smythuch, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m1.u90	Dear colleagues, I will personally support this bill. Because I think that no one other than the local authorities can give advice and know the state of their farms in terms of networks, especially water and sanitation. I ask myself, Is it possible to have a modern life without air, without water, and without food, and so on? Impossible. Is it possible to live in our remote areas? Impossible. And will they be possible if we continue to abuse ourselves at this rate in order not to replicate these networks or create such conditions if they make our services more accessible, is it possible that this will be life for the people in our communities? I think it's going to be very difficult. It's very heavy. Then there is the question of what to do with this farm. If anyone thinks they're going to take a lease and immediately start changing them and replacing them to be modern, economic and so on, I doubt it. They rent, they take concessions for a short period of time to get money, profits. So I think it's a good idea to transfer this property, but it's a good idea to do one more question. When we consider the budget, we have to consider these issues. If we hand over to the local authorities, which is at my reasonable point of view, this move, yes, but we need to think about the budget right now, to pass on the budget to the local authorities. And I certainly agree with that point of view. No way. The transfer of this property should be clear and clear. It's forbidden to transfer to private property. And then we're going to be okay, then we're going to be reproducing those powers or doing our functions in the plan, because of the budgetary policy of making grants to local budgets that would be appropriate to make services in this sense smaller for our population. I support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m1.u91	Ladies and gentlemen, the matter has been discussed. The committee proposes to adopt the bill as a basis. The Chief Scientific and Expert Office also recommends that the Supreme Council consider adopting the bill as a basis. A proposal for adoption is put to the vote on the basis of the draft Act amending the Law on the Transfer of Objects of State and Municipal Property. [[on water infrastructure engineering facilities]] [[Registration number 8048]] [[17:27:20]] For 230 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear National Deputies! I am announcing for consideration the draft Act amending the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine, and the Reporter is the national deputy of Ukraine, Oleg Novikov. [[on the introduction of individual provisions of the Code in accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine and the Criminal Code of Ukraine]] [[Registration number 3104]] The Coroner is the first Deputy Head of the Justice Committee, George Carmazin. I'm betting on the vote on your proposal, honourable national MPs, to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[17:28:08]] For the 220. Decision taken. Please report. The narrator? Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin, first deputy head of the Justice Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m1.u92	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Justice has considered the draft Act on Amendments to the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine, submitted by the National Deputy of Ukraine, which aims to eliminate the inconsistencies in the legal provisions of the Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code itself, as well as the inadequacy of its individual provisions with the provisions of the Constitution of Ukraine and the Criminal Code of Ukraine. [[Registration number 3104]] While supporting the author's desire to bring criminal and procedural legislation into line with the Ukrainian Constitution, to comply with other laws and international standards in the area of criminal conduct, we consider it necessary to note that the bill is largely inconsistent with the requirements of international treaties, which are binding on the Supreme Council of Ukraine, as well as other legislative acts of Ukraine. In order to make a reasoned decision on the bill, the Committee on Justice referred to the Supreme Court of Ukraine, the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine, the Ministry of Justice, scientific institutions and organizations, which, in their conclusions to the draft law, pointed to its insignificance and imperfection. The Chief Scientific and Expert Administration of the Supreme Council's Apparatus proposes that the first reading of the bill be rejected. In the light of what has been said, the Committee considers it possible to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to reject the draft Act amending the Criminal Procedure Code. [[Registration number 3104 from 12.5.2009]] Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m1.u93	Thank you. Dear National Deputies, and the Committee, and the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority are the only ones in their opinion that the bill should be rejected. So maybe we'll do this, I'll put it to the vote as a basis. If not, the bill will be rejected, and so we will support the recommendations of both the committee and the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. Is there no objection? None. I'm voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft law. [[Registration number 3104]] I'd like to make a statement. [[17:31:03]] For-7. The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose to you a draft Act amending the Law on Amendments to the Advertising Act. [[on the placement of external advertising]] [[Registration number 8017, 8017-1]] It is suggested that we address this issue in a simplified manner, I put this motion to the vote, please vote. [[17:31:43]] For 219 Decision taken. Reporters: National MPs Tishchenko and Simonenko Please, Oleg Ivanovich, your report. Correspondent: Olena Kondratuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m1.u94	Dear National Deputies! Dear Chairman! The bill currently being proposed aims to increase revenues to local budgets through the removal from Ukraine's Advertising Act of the ban on paying for advertising permits, as well as to increase the safety of traffic on intercity highways by banning the placement of advertising structures closer to and above 20 meters from the canvas of roads. In line with the conclusion of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Expert Office, it is recommended that the draft Act be merged with alternative draft 8017-1 on amendment to article 16 of the Advertising Act. However, the alternative project further prohibits the placement of outdoor advertising on pedestrian roads and alleys, as well as off-site advertising structures that refer to the distance of 100 meters from the edge of the road, which cannot be accepted, since, first, it contains no safety and unwarranted purposes and tasks of the very presence of external advertising, and lastly, it makes advertising worthless. Because people who are not behind the wheel can't look at it like that. In our case, 20 meters away, you can see it well, and at the same time, it doesn't shade road signs and pointers, and it doesn't distract the driver, which increases traffic safety. According to the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information, the draft Law 8017 of the first reading should be rejected, this being done with reference to the study of a number of seemingly foreign states that had been carried out since 1995-1999, and which allegedly did not affect the safety of traffic, but the lack of reference to the source of such information along with the actual absence of such advertisements.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m1.u95	Please, the microphone. Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m1.u96	On the highways of European countries, the motivation behind the committee’s conclusion is questionable. All other suggestions and observations can be taken into account when preparing the bill for second reading. Please accept the National Deputies in the first reading and as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m1.u97	Thank you, too. Dear colleagues, now Helen Konstantinovna Kondratjuk, head of the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information, will inform the committee of its decision. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m1.u98	Dear colleagues! The Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information at its meeting on 15 June 2011 reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Law on Advertising of Ukraine, introduced by the National Deputy Oleg Tishchenk, and an alternative draft of the Law on Amendments to Article 16 of the Law on Advertising of Ukraine, introduced by the Ukrainian National Deputy Peter Simonenko. [[Registration number 8017]] [[Registration number 8017-1]] The committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that the draft legislation should be rejected as a result of the first reading. The committee disagrees with the proposals proposed by the drafters regarding the introduction of new substantive restrictions and prohibitions on the placement of external advertising, the deletion of the rules on free licensing for external advertising, and so on. Yes, the proposed changes to the ban on placing outside advertising on the surface of the roadside at locations less than 10 meters from the edge of the road, outside the populated areas less than 100 meters from the edge of the roadway, introduced by Simonenck, will lead to the actual destruction of the market for external advertising, the destruction of 70 to 90 percent of the advertising park, the bankruptcy of most small and medium-sized enterprises. I will note that the introduction by Oleg Tishchenko of the payment for the issuance of permits for external advertising will not be able to cover the budget losses for the situation where the actual market and the companies of external advertising simply will not happen. The authors base their proposals primarily on road safety. At the same time, according to the committee, many scientific studies have denied the relationship between the development of advertising infrastructure and road safety. Also about that. That the main causes of road accidents are not listed as external advertising in the relevant statistics for 2000.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m1.u99	Microphone, please. Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m1.u100	which were given to the recently adopted Ukrainian Law on the Elimination of Excessive State Traffic Regulation, which was initiated by the President of Ukraine. The scientific expertise of the Supreme Council's apparatus in its conclusions on the relevant bills took into account a number of major shortcomings, but preferred Bill 8017-1 and proposed that it be merged with Project 8017. I will point out that, by sharing the concerns of the drafters of the bill on the shortcomings of legislative regulation in the market for external advertising, the need to bring about a system in the field, and by taking note of the constructive proposals that have been made in the course of the holding of the relevant meetings, the committee proposes that the issues raised by colleagues be resolved evolutionaryly, based on European approaches and the practice of regulating relevant issues. To this end, members of the committee have registered Bill 8569, which proposes a comprehensive approach to the issue of the placement of external advertising media. In the event of his approval, both Peter Mikolaiovich and Oleg Ivanovich will be able to contribute to the reform of the field.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m1.u101	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up for this discussion, if that's what you need. Please. Names of the national deputies. Irina Heratchenko, faction “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m1.u102	Dear colleagues, I propose to support the proposal made by my colleague, Elena Condratuk, as well as the profile committee that this bill needs to be rejected, because in fact this bill has nothing to do with the desire to address the issue of external advertising and does not meet European standards. The issue of external advertising really needs to be approached in a complex way. The question of where we find those objects of outside advertising that are on them today, and what is proposed in this bill, in fact, is of an extraordinary nature and does not conform to European standards. Therefore, it is appropriate to reject it. And that's the position and the corresponding industry, which today is what's interesting especially before the elections, in many regions is actually starting to get signals that aren't just through billing, but actually this market to be a little bit divided, something to change there, something else. We see not only the desire to be profiled, expertly speaking, but also the desire, in fact, to redistribute the market in question, very lasagna, including the electoral campaign's electoral campaign. So it's worth noting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m1.u103	National Deputy Fomin, BUYT faction, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m1.u104	Alexander Fomin, BUYT, Fatherland. Please pass the word to Mikola Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m1.u105	Mikola Tomenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m1.u106	Dear colleagues, in fact, the problem is much more serious. I share the concerns of our colleagues Tischenka and Simonek, a situation that has arisen. The only problem, I think, is that, of course, such bills need to be prepared with the Ministry of Internal Affairs experts in order for us to see, not American statistics, but Ukrainian statistics, and to understand how the density of external advertising and their proximity to travel really affects the safety of movement. I think that this expertise is extremely important. Because my hypothesis is that it creates problems, that it's dangerous. But in order to be more persuasive, it is likely that such an expertise will have to be carried out. I also don't share the concern of our colleagues that it is here that colleagues of Tishchenko or Simonenko want to distribute the advertising market because it has long been distributed. I'm driving through areas, and we have mostly kids there at night, they're scaring at the full growth of the image of the heads of district administrations and the beer commercials, well, something else. I mean, that's how I understand it, if on every third run on the track it's a picture of the head of the district administration, on every third one, and on every fifth one of the presidents, it means that the advertisers have made a deal with the authorities, and no one will go in there anymore. Or, for example, direct beer advertising is available. So I think this law has the right to exist. But once again, I'm saying, obviously, we need to get together with all the interested people, analyze, look at the real situation, and make these kinds of bills, because I'm going to tell you exactly that there's not a lot of outdoor advertising anywhere in the world near the routes, especially in the denseness that they are in Ukraine. So I would think, if I were to support the proposal of scientific expertise, that at least one law would have to be preserved in order to, between first and second reading, involve experts and the public, move in the direction of solving this problem, not just to reject it as one that does not exist.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m1.u107	Sergey Pavlovenko, faction of the National Party. He's refusing? He's refusing. Then it's Vladimir Kaplanko, the Reform Group for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m1.u108	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, please pass the word to Taras Cnervol.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m1.u109	Taras Chernobyl, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m1.u110	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues of the Ukrainian National Deputies! We discussed this bill the same way yesterday at a faction meeting, both bills. And we came to the conclusion that the problem itself was right. There really is a problem. But its settlement was not completely fragmented, so it is sinful because there is no argument on these decisions, and in two positions we see a violation of certain laws and laws. First of all, as far as the removal is concerned, the exclusion of the non-collecting clause for the issuance of the licence for the placement of external advertising. Maybe that's right, maybe that's what we should do. It's got to be calculated, it's got to be decided. But the question is, can we do this in this law without making any changes to tax legislation? This is what the Budget Code requires of us; we have no right to do otherwise. The second point is about the very moments of advertising. Maybe it's the right thing to do. But once again, there's no research, there's no argument, there's no conclusion why it's 100 meters, not 50 meters, not 200 meters, there's no experience in other foreign countries where these things are used. Plus, we're at the top right now, I'd say, unthinkable advertising activity that, like in most civilized countries of the world, is about to go down. When there is less unthinkable advertising, there will be less on those decks and other carriers, then there may be a fall and it may be better to settle it so that there are no great tragedies and great losses. And the last. Since the advertising market is filling local budgets, it is necessary to anticipate the loss of local budgets if there is to be a reduction in the advertising market. And provide for a budget that will be compensated. In view of these circumstances, we propose not to support these two bills. And in the future, it's a complex question.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m1.u111	Alla Alexandrovska, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m1.u112	Alexandrovsky, the Communist faction, the city of Harkov. Dear colleagues, the logic of the bill is almost universally supported. The previous speaker made a strange conclusion, after all, that there was no need to vote for them, but he had always said that there was a problem to be resolved. Peter Nikolaevich Simonenko rightly observed that advertising today is completely overcrowding the environment and, of course, has an impact on traffic safety. Yes, there are no specific arguments and statistics, but, respectable comrades, look around, look, we don't see landscapes, we don't see architectural monuments, we don't see cities. All the cities have turned into some sort of image, some kind of a mess of this commercial. The city you're in, you still see the same commercial. It is therefore necessary to establish order and security in the first place. Therefore, on first reading, the Simonnka bill needs to be supported, refined and made all your proposals. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m1.u113	Dear colleagues, the word is Kovalevska, faction of the Party of Regions, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m1.u114	Thank you. Julia Kovalevska, faction of the Party of the Regions. Honorable colleagues, respected TV setters, road safety are certainly a very acute problem, one of such problems in both Ukraine and many countries of the world. And in some countries, there are even national transport security committees that show a systematic and balanced approach to this problem. However, I will not urge my colleagues to vote in favour of these two bills. First of all, there is really no reasonable calculation and no proposal for the sources of the costs involved in the adoption of this law and there is no argument as to the causal link between the placement of external advertising located above the surface or on the roadways with road safety. It is not clear what is meant by increased traffic safety. And it's not clear why there's an emphasis on advertising outside the locations, not in the locations themselves. So there's a lot of issues that aren't covered by these bills. I think these.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m1.u115	Microphone, finish your thought, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m1.u116	I think these bills should be rejected. But there is a problem and it needs to be solved. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m1.u117	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the matter has been discussed. The committee recommends rejecting the proposed bills. The Science and Experimental Authority believes that Bill 8017-1 can be adopted as a basis. I'm voting first on the adoption as the basis of the bill, the amendment of the Ukrainian Advertising Act. [[Registration number 8017]] [[on the placement of external advertising]] The author is National Deputy Tishchenko. [[17:48:04]] For-39 The decision is not taken. I'm voting on the proposal to adopt a bill based on the draft Act, amending article 16 of the Ukrainian Advertising Act. [[on the placement of external advertising]] The author is national deputy Simonenko. [[17:48:36]] For-32 The decision is not taken. Bills are rejected. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose we continue our work for 15. No, right? [[B in m in s a l in]] Here we go. Dear colleagues, we continue to have bills concerning memorable dates, and we will quickly vote on them, and we will conclude them. But just in case, 15 minutes. A draft law amending the Ukrainian Automobile Transport Act is being announced for consideration. [[on the simplification of national regulation of the activities of motor carriers]] [[Registration number 8550]] There is a suggestion to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[17:49:29]] For 207 Decision taken. Dear National Deputies! The rapporteur is National Deputy Natalia Yuriovna Královska. And the co-reporter is the head of the Committee on Transport and Communications, Mironenko Mikhailo Ivanovich. Mikhail Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m1.u118	Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Transport and Communications reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Road Transport on the Simplification of State Regulation of Automobile Activities, submitted by the National Deputy of Ukraine to the Royal Republic of Ukraine. The Explanatory Note notes that the purpose of the bill is to simplify state regulation by cancelling raids, to establish a comprehensive list of documents for passenger transport, to reduce the list of documents for the competitive committee and to reduce the requirement for applicants to participate in the competition for the identification of a car carrier on the bus route of general use. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine stresses that the project, as a result of the first reading, can be adopted on the basis of the comments and suggestions made. The Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine considers it inappropriate to make the proposed changes which will lead to a deterioration in the emergency situation in passenger and car transport. The Ministry of Infrastructure of Ukraine has made numerous comments and proposals to the bill and emphasises that it needs substantial work. Taking into account the above and the outcome of the discussion at the meeting, the Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Ukrainian law to reject. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m1.u119	Ladies and gentlemen who insist on discussing this bill, please sign in. Names, please escort the national MPs. National MP Pachesuk, please, Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m1.u120	Dear MPs, Vladimir Mikhailovich, the cancellation of raids is an increase in illegal transport and the creation of unequal, uncompetitive conditions for a legal carrier. The other one. The decline in budget revenues is now around 5 billion dollars in shadow, and this lobbies the interests of illegal carriers. Exclusion of the Law on Road Transport, which provides for the use of bus routes equipped with freight vehicles, is now premature, as in suburban, inland routes of up to 150 kilometers [150 km], and some 93,000 buses need to be changed. So I propose that the bill be rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m1.u121	Yes, Sergey Gordienko, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m1.u122	Sergei Gordijenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company, Poltavščina. First of all, I would like to thank the Transport and Communications Committee for their objective approach to this bill and to say that it is purely lobbyist, populist. It can't be supported by itself, even if it's one of the things that doesn't allow refitting, well, we don't have to allow the equipment to be rearranged under any circumstances, except for those that have certain licenses, which will have a huge impact on the crash on the roads. We still hear messages from the highways from both military fronts and conflicts. Therefore, the faction of the Ukrainian Company will not support the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m1.u123	Thank you. Gryvkovsky's refusing, isn't he? Chapel, please, microphone. So who will be then, please? Well now, Caplienne, then who will be the National Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m1.u124	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. You know, at the faction meeting, we discussed a lot about this bill. It's like we've seen a positive moment, first of all, by simplifying the process of obtaining the right licenses, actually giving a statement on the routes of one or the other means of transport. They are also referred to as the introduction of such a novelty as the mandatory insurance of a vehicle that was not available to this day. And if this is fixed by law, that's basically the right procedure. But the lack of information on the appropriateness of the vehicle and passenger transport means that, in our view, you know, it might lead to terrible consequences, if we don't control the technical condition of cars and try to regulate this issue just by licensing, maybe this won't lead to positive things at all. Therefore, the MPs decided to vote freely. I don't think most of us will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m1.u125	Who else insists on the performance? You don't? Please. Dear colleagues, the committee is proposing to reject the bill. The main scientific and expert office believes that the bill can be adopted as a basis. I bet the vote on the first regulatory procedure: the adoption of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Automobile Act. [[on the simplification of national regulation of the activities of motor carriers]] [[Registration number 8550]] Please vote. [[5:55:48]] For the 10th. The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft decree on the 70th anniversary of the creation of the underground youth organization Youth Guard is under review. Asking you to consider a simplified procedure is a question. I'm ready, but the committee has made a different decision. The committee will say, "Then we'll vote." If there was a solution on the basis and in general, there would be no problem. [[17:56:19]] For 213 Decision taken. Please, Vladimir Alexandrovich Yavorowski, head of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m1.u126	Dear colleagues, it's very controversial, of course, this whole story around Young Guards. You know, it was a completely propaganda myth. Alexander Fadeyev first wrote a more or less decent, decent text of the novel was. It was just a youth organization, really, there were teenagers there, there were a little bit and older people who really were organized and set this job market on fire, and they stopped, and they robbed a car with New Year's gifts. But you know that in the 46th year, the first edition of the novel came out, and in the 50th year, it seems that in the 51st year, Fayeyev was forced to reverse everything, to introduce it to the leadership role of the party there and so on and so forth. You know there's a different view of Young Guards today. There is such a Stakh, he lives in America, who wrote a whole book, where he put it literally on his cheeks. Because of this, look, I understand very well that since this brought Ephraim, I am well aware that the majority will vote for it. But minorities, I'd say. I don't think it's such an event, this Soviet myth. It's re-established, re-rolling this Young Guard movie, re-examined in school this legend that doesn't actually have a basis. Therefore, think for yourselves how to vote. I will not vote in favour of this decision, and the committee also admits that it is not worth celebrating. We celebrated the 65th anniversary, now the 70th birthday. In fact, on the previous Jubilee of Golenko, one of the district leaders, claimed to be holy in general, should be lifted up, which he even resented, they say, a priest who sat there.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m1.u127	Dear colleagues, I have a request. We can talk as much as we can about different points of view, they have the right to life. One minute! But without myths, without meaning, and without imitation, society cannot live. And I understand when I'm in this museum, how people feel about this date, about these people. So I have a request so that we don't take the floor right now, and by voting, we also have a choice. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, one minute! I'm here now, if you don't want to, we'll discuss it. And we've made a decision, the only thing I'm proposing is that when we put the vote to a vote, we delete the seventh paragraph: "Controlling this decision will place on the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on matters of family, youth policy, sport and tourism." If so, perhaps the committee on education and science. It would be more logical. And so I would suggest that I vote for the basis as a whole. Are you demanding a discussion? Come on, please. Sign up. No problem, sign up. Names, please, of the national MPs. Peter Cibenko, then Katerina Vaschuk. Peter Cibenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m1.u128	Thank you. Communist faction, Peter Cibenko. Dear colleagues, the Youth Guard is one of the heroic pages of our national history, especially the Great Homeland War. And I find it bitter today to realize that in the Committee on Culture and Spirituality other priorities, that some Stakh, the owner who fled to the United States, today is the main authority in studying our country history. So the faction of the Company of Ukraine certainly supports this document. The only thing that bothers me in this situation is that from the walls of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality, laws are often passed, not to be accepted, but to make an unnecessary impression on national history and its heroic pages. So the faction of the Company of Ukraine supports this document. For this reason we propose not only to vote as a basis but also as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m1.u129	Catherine Vaschuk, faction of the People's Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m1.u130	Dear colleagues! You know, sometimes there's a very offensive thesis that there's a nation in Ukraine that has an unforeseeable past. Everyone's got a future, and we've got a past. Because we share a permanent country. Some write a disgrace about Shevchenka, a forest in Ukraine. Others today act on the memory of the heroes of the Great Homeland War. You can look at people's feats differently, from a point of view as high as today, without knowing the truth. If these children come out for a moment and protest against the fascists, they are already worthy of respect. How do we raise our future generation? What examples? We shame everything, on one side, on the other. Let us magnify all who have created the history of Ukraine, who fought for freedom, who fought for the people, who fought for independence, then we will be a proud nation, and we will not be ashamed of the children who roast the egg in the Fire. We are for this law and for the decree.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m1.u131	Taras Blackwall, the Reform Group for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m1.u132	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues of the Ukrainian National Deputies! You know, we're still here in this room, and we're still discussing our position on this. On the one hand, "The Young Guard," the young children themselves, of whom Mrs. Catherine had just said, who rose up against the invader, who, of course, did not act at all, not in the amount described in the book, but who did so, of course, that their memory needs to be respected. Another moment. When we make the decision, do we have a determination to honor these people and the action they did, which is really heroic, whether we have a respect for the output of a very specific piece, a particular book of another edition. If in this case there was a decision that would answer the question of really the children who created this feat, that's one thing. If the determination were that would be directly relevant, there, to give the book an output and, there, to mark this moment, well, it would be a questionable vote, but it would also be pure. In this case, it's all mixed up. That's why we decided to vote freely in this situation, because, on the one hand, it doesn't come out quite honestly. By voting in favour of the decree, it's as if we're celebrating those heroic children, those young men and girls, but we're voting for a very questionable document that shouldn't come out of the walls of the Supreme Council. Voting against it as if we were rejecting it. But we also looked at the text of the document itself. Well, normal, our standard norm, where we vote on draft regulations on respect for people or events. It foresees that we have our limits defined in the Supreme Council of the Constitution, where we have the right to decide where we don't have anything. Where we can tell where we can't. We're giving Kabmin recommendations to honor, implement. In this case, there are some things that go beyond the competence of the Supreme Council. That's why we're free to vote. But really, these sacred things need to be taken more seriously than the lobbyist interests of the business structures that want to make money.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m1.u133	Alexander Stoyan, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m1.u134	I pressed the "against" button for what. In order to express his protest against how the Head of the Committee on Culture, with such disrespect, reported with such blasphemy that we should honor the memory of those 18-20-year-olds who gave their lives during the Great War so that we can live and work peacefully today. It's an outrage! When the master reports other dates of doubt, he speaks with a puffos. And today he was doing something, looking for some flaws. I mean, as an older generation, post-war and other people, we were raised on the Young Guard feats of these heroes. We once, well, the Russian word "simply," we wanted to be like them, we wanted to clean up, looking at these people who risked their lives. And today, without argument, without fact, that's not fair. And I would like to say to my colleague Taras Crnovol, no doubt, Mr. Taras, look at the title of the draft decree, marking the 70th anniversary of the creation of the underground youth organization Youth Guard. This is not about the book or the author, it is about 70 years ago, when this organization was formed when the organization fought. And, dear colleagues, I think it's not just our political power, but other colleagues of our Communists who support it. And we just have to make sure that young people who have grown up in independence at least once in a movie show Young Guards, at least a show, at least take a tour for these people. Because, believe me, what they did at the time, it's worth, really, imitating, not showing our children other porn now, running into questionable clubs and having nothing holy. So I support what Catherine Vaschuk said when, in fact, the egg burns on holy fire is a disgrace. I urge everyone to vote on this ruling. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m1.u135	Dear colleagues. Now, I see. Let's do it this way: from the BUT faction, Andrew School, one minute. The names were then Volodymyr Yavorowski and Taras Cnerovil. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues! () [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, please, we'll be talking longer than we'll be done in one minute. Well, we did.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m1.u136	In fact, the situation is that the text of the decree needs to be taken into account in this situation. Because that's how they like it, especially the extreme forces, to blame each other for not understanding it, not saying it, not doing it. This is clearly about, not about, but about the book, about the description, everything is absolutely right, here I agree with the previous speaker who said that it touched the second edition of the book. I say again, I can take it differently, well, but dictate the conditions that we should celebrate through the Supreme Council the publication of one or another book and cover it all up, blasphemously cover it all up with the feat of boys, well, it's an outrage. I think that, well, the Supreme Council should be more honest and more careful about this, rather than imitating other top councils or other underprivileged actions of today's power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m1.u137	Yes, Vladimir Yavorowski, then Taras Cnerwell.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m1.u138	My late father taught me this wisdom: "Don't try to argue with a fool because you won't be different from him." I want to say again, Taras Blackwall has made me very clear. I'm saying once again that there really was this organization, no one is humiliating it. But look at what the determination is about. The Supreme Council's decree is to introduce into the Young Guard school program, to spin movies, to publish again. Is such a document accepted? Because the committee rejected him because he was simply illiterate. And I didn't say anything. I say again, these are the beautiful children who really did the feat, but the speculation on the political myth, when a few were shot and then rehabilitated, because it was an accident, that's what we need to figure out, not just beat the drums and everything. We've been hit by drums. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m1.u139	Taras Chernobyl, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m1.u140	Dear colleague Stoyan, I appreciate at least that your address has been very correct to me, but I want to tell you, you quoted the name of the decree, we often have the names of regulations or bills that you read and your hand reaches out to vote, and then you read the text and you understand, oh my God, save me, just a better hand to cut off than to vote for, especially in the social part of it. In this case, there are things in the text of the decree that should be clearly said that this is not about the real Young Guard, which is actually the heroic one who did it. That's what I could really do. The ideological slogans they used to go there are still unknown. But it is about a certain propaganda gallows that was later made. Let's just be honest. And besides, all of these things that are written down there, and who are invited to the celebrations and so on, they raise a lot of doubts. No one would mind honoring Young Guard, but it's about the text of the ruling, what we're releasing from the Supreme Council, where the Chief of the Supreme Council is supposed to sign.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m1.u141	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we have concluded our discussion. I understand we can't find a single point of view here. As I see it, my dear colleagues, any decision is based on intelligent people. We used to keep under the pillow "Young Guard," today we see a lot more facts about this event, but the self-sacrifices of teenagers, young people can't be denied. What would be wrong if the teacher or other measures were to say that there was such an event? The essence of this event is that these young people have sought out how they can protect the Father and fight the enemy. And at some point, it was obviously used from the ideological point of view, but that doesn't change the nature of these people's sacrifices. We're counting on smart people. And there's a recommendation from the Ministry of Education, and I think there's also experts who are going to address this issue. Therefore, honourable colleagues, I could make suggestions, clarifications, but since this issue has become so controversial, I am obliged to put it to a vote, proposing the deletion of the 7th paragraph, which includes the commission to accompany this decision by the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports. Well, that's not his profile. Let's just make a decision, it's already assigned to everyone. I mean, I'm putting to the vote a proposal for adoption as a basis and as a whole a draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a decision. [[Registration number 8512]] Please make an informed decision. No point seven. [[18:11:59]] For 248 I'll take the order. Dear colleagues! If you don't mind, let's take a look. We still have one here.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m1.u142	Four minutes! We'll make it!
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m1.u143	Dear colleagues! Listen to me! We've got it. Dear colleagues, please. We have a 100-year-old Hankevitch decree. Next is the 100th anniversary of the Scout movement. I was asked very much to ask you to look into it. And a draft decree declaring chess day in Ukraine. The last two bills do not raise objections. There's a counterversive. So let's now listen to the committee head, let's determine by vote, let's make a decision. Please! Draft Decision on the 100th anniversary of the birth of Hankevitch Anatoly Borisovich. [[9072]]
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m1.u144	I'm very short, because Matthew then, if necessary, he'll fill me in. Well, really, it's a name that's actually, well, little familiar in our society, but it's because. Just because it was a closed institution, it was actually a military plant in Nicholas, the Black Sea, where these people were closed, had, so sure, there, the griffins and so on. We can talk about this today. This is a truly remarkable man who passed by a private locksmith, it seems, if I'm not mistaken, reached the director of this huge factory, which built submarines, turbines and the like. [[Right, Vladia?]] I think we should remind our society that we had one. The committee supports this submission. And just so we don't go out again, the same thing can be said is the Pinchuck Bill, a majority representative of the 100th anniversary of the Scout movement. This is indeed a unique movement. It's something similar to us, it's Timurian teams and pioneer teams and pioneer teams, and so on, but it's really a very interesting children's and youth organizations, where there's physical culture, there's sports, there's history study, there's a charter. It has, indeed, a very big story, and since I've introduced it, I say again, a representative of the majority, I'm sure you'll vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m1.u145	Thank you. Vladimir Alexandrovich, we have one minute left, so I'd like to ask. Please, Vladimir Josephovich. I'm very short so we can make a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m1.u146	Well, well. Well, I'm confused, well, I'm sorry. But it does, well, you respectable fellows.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m1.u147	Apology accepted. So, well, Gankevitch Anatoly Borisovich, indeed, is a great man, who, at the age of 38, became the director of the older Ukrainian factory, a shipbuilding plant called the 61st Communatorium, which today is 225 years old, has worked as the director of the largest shipbuilding complex in Europe, the Black Sea Shipbuilding Plant, is a person who has brought Ukraine out into the ranks of countries that can build aircraft carriers and not honour its memory, not perpetuate its memory, simply impossible. 12 January, 15 January. He is 100 years old in 2012. I ask you to take this decree on the perpetuation of him.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-11-01-m1.u148	Thank you. Thank you. Dear colleagues, I will put it to a vote, but with precision, the name of the decree, as recommended by the committee: the celebration of the century since the birth of a national actor, the outstanding organizer of shipbuilding production of Ukraine Anatolia Borisovich Gankević. I'd like to agree with the committee's recommendation. And with that in mind, accept the draft decree as a decree. [[Registration number 9072]] Please vote. [[18:16:04]] For 288 Decision taken. And, honourable colleagues, the chairman of the committee has already reported on the draft Decision by Pinchuk Andrija Pavlovich, marking the century of Ukrainian Scout movement. [[Registration number 9121]] I'm betting on a motion for a draft ruling on the basis of which I'm asking for a vote in general. [[18:16:40]] For 262 Decision taken. The factions, please. Region Party – 170, BUTT – Fatherskina – 34, Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense – 9, Communists – 0, Reforms for the Future – 20, People's Party – 20, non-factional – 9. [[i.e. against]] Dear colleagues, why don't we take another decision on chess? [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm asking you, Your Honor, we've already agreed by consensus. The committee proposes to take the basis and, in general, to take into account the committee’s proposals. I'm voting on this proposal to adopt a draft decision as a decree on the proclamation of chess day in Ukraine. [[Registration number 8760]] Taking into account the committee's proposals. Please vote. [[6:17:48]] For 277 Decision taken. Thank you, distinguished national deputies and dear colleagues. The evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Tomorrow the Supreme Council of Ukraine will continue its plenary work on November 2nd, Wednesday.
