ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:01:40]] Cards were registered in the 372 National Deputies Sessional Hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Ladies and gentlemen, today is the birthday of our colleagues, Lukashuk Oleg Grigorovich, who is 60 years old, please welcome him. [[Applause]] And I would like to welcome Mr. Cranovol Taras Viačeslavovich, who is also on his birthday today. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, I give you information on the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at plenary meetings on 31 May 2011. Forty-nine issues of the agenda have been considered. As a result of their consideration, 3 laws and 4 decrees were passed, 9 bills were adopted on the basis of which 1 bill was returned to the subject of the legislative initiative, 15 bills and 1 draft decree were rejected. Honorable national MPs, in accordance with article 25 of the Rules, are given 30 minutes on Wednesday for speeches by national deputies with statements, reports, and appeals. Please, Your Honor, record the performance. Yes, please put the names of the national deputies on the information board. Alexander Goodima, "BUT" faction, "Fatherland." You don't? Turn on the Goodima microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u2	Please pass the word to Prokopchuku.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u3	Please, Yuri Prokopchuk, the "BUT" faction. Rybek will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u4	Dear compatriots, Ukrainians! Last week, apparently under the personal command of Viktor Yanukovic, an attempt was made to arrest the head of the Party of Fatherland and the leader of the Ukrainian opposition, Yulia Timoshenko. As soon as she crossed the threshold of the Attorney General's Office, she was blocked by armed special forces. Janukovich’s team humiliated Timoshenko and removed her personal belongings. Meanwhile, the prosecutor’s office was waiting for the leader of the opposition with the convoy. This psychological attack lasted for seven hours. However, the apparent attempt to incarcerate Timoshenko immediately caused a disturbance on the part of the Ukrainian community, receiving a negative assessment of journalists, public officials, and defenders. Carefree citizens opposed it and protested it. And only the intervention of the leading diplomats of the leading countries did not make it possible to complete the scheme. How long? Why did Janukovic go on an adventure with the leader of the opposition's arrest right now? Because the land flows faster than the oligarchs of Ukraine’s strategic wealth. The people really appreciated these woe-professors. In all but the areas of Ukraine, the frustration of Yanukovich’s authority has reached the limits of the people’s tolerance. Because Julia Timoshenko is the main threat to the oligarchy of Yanukovich, the regime has abandoned all the authorities to fight her and her associates. The regime almost took Yuri Lucenka's life. Soon after a year of illegal detention under the watch of Igor Didenko, Anatoly Makarenko. I had to seek the political asylum of Bogdan Danielishin. The regime is afraid of its own people, so it is on the path of total banning any peaceful meetings. In such a new country today, it is not possible to carry out a legal protest. With a view to halting the attack on citizens' rights and freedoms, the BUT-Fathership faction requires: to immediately call on the Supreme Council of Attorney-General Pshonka to provide full and objective information on the state of law enforcement in Ukraine, including the arrests of political prisoners who are still unjustifiably in the shadows; to establish a permanent parliamentary commission to investigate the facts of the incorrigible prohibitions, protests and mass meetings; and to repeal those laws that have destroyed justice in Ukraine today. And for the rest. It should be remembered that any aggression and those who initiate it breeds aggression in return. So, you sow the storm, you reap the wind. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u5	Yeah, one minute. Rybeka, please. Turn on Rybeka's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u6	May I have a word with Vassil Kravchuk?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u7	Please, Vasil Kravchuk, the "BOUT" faction, "The Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u8	Basil Krawczuk, "BUT" faction, "The Fatherland." Dear colleagues, opposition is the only effective safeguard of authoritarianism and dictatorship. By rephrasing a well-known politician, opposition is a party that holds power from violent madness caused by permissiveness and impunity. Because it is only the loss of mind, the instinct of political self-preservation that can cause what the current power is -- the illegal cynical harassment and destruction of Yulia Timoshenko, recognized in Ukraine and in the world as the leader of the real Ukrainian opposition. If the authoritarian monster devours the opposition, he will continue to devour his own children, that is, you, the honourable representatives of the parliamentary majority and you, the representatives of the law enforcement authorities, who are now making every effort to carry out the political order, and the government officials, who, because of their unwillingness to hear the reasoned criticism of the opposition, have already caused the tax haven, the protests of the education community, the students. Once again, the worst thing that can happen in any country is the uncontrolled power. So in the democratic world, there is a strengthening of the status and empowerment of the rights of opposition, especially in the division of control over the activity of power. That is the kind of control the authorities now want to avoid, and at all levels. Because of this, the unsatisfied are harassed in both the capital and the remote villages. The citizens, who live at the expense of the active authorities, want to hear the voice of opposition leader Yulia Timoshenko, from the parliamentary rostrum, not from the insulator. By violating the new criminal case against Julia Timoshenko, the authorities are trying to prevent her from personally participating in the election to the Supreme Council. David Kramer, executive director of Freedom House, stated: “The Ukrainian authorities have taken Julia Timoshenko, and they are charging her with one criminal charge after another until they are able to throw her in jail and thus remove her from the political arena. What does Timoshenko’s apparent illegal persecution reveal to our constituents, ordinary citizens? Only that any of them could be next. The application of selective justice in Ukraine is condemned by the European Union, the United States. They stress that selective justice and opposition leaders are unacceptable in democratic societies. Or do we no longer belong to such ones? Today, by pushing Julius Tymoshenko on a political golf course, each of you should consider how his position will be appreciated by the people of Ukraine, for Ukrainian democracy, the rule of law, and justice will be impaled. Thank you for your attention. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u9	People's Deputy Dubova, "BUT" faction, "Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u10	Pass it on to the skin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u11	Please, Andrew Kožemyakin is given the right to speak. Shishkina will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u12	Honorary colleagues, citizens of the town of Kiev, the Cave Court of Kiev began its investigation of the RosUkreenergo case, criminal charges against several ex-owners of the State Customs Service of Ukraine and NAK Naftogazu. [[If anyone forgot, you remember, it was a group like this in Ukraine headed by Mr. Firtash, Mr. Horoshkowski, Mr. Boyko]] In a seemingly illegal form, 11 billion cubic metres of natural gas imported into Ukraine in previous years. Former head of the Ukrainian State Customs Service, Anatoly Makarenko, and Taras Shepiteko, a member of this institution, have been arrested and detained for almost a year in the custody of Kiev’s S.I.O. You do not need to have deep legal knowledge to understand that a criminal case is an order. Anatolia Makarenko, Taras Shepiteka and other defendants are considered hostages of political persecution and primitive reflexes of the influential Ukrainian business group, whose individual representatives have held the highest positions in the authorities of the state. Of course, the customers of this cynicism are the owners and lobbyists of this group, whose business card is the Swiss company Rosukrenergo. Clearly, the criminal persecution of the individuals in question is not in any way directed toward the establishment of the truth. Among the real objectives of the criminal case are, apparently, the public punishment of the perpetrators of the inter-government Ukrainian-Russian agreements, which concerned Rosukrenergo, for the purpose of creating an atmosphere of fear and humility in Ukraine, followed by Mr. Firtash and his close friends, the second by primitive revenge from the key leaders of the oligarchic group, followed by Mr. Horoshkovsky, the third by the creation of judicial precedents to bring the criminal responsibility of former Prime Minister of Ukraine to Timoshenko, followed by Mr. President, Januković, the fourth, to provide further evidence of the legality of the return of Rosukrenergo to the role of key mediator between Ukraine and Russia. The clear evidence of the order’s nature of the criminal case is that Anatoly Makarenko and Taras Shepteck are being held illegally under the custody of them. Clearly, these individuals pose no danger to society and justice. Makarenko and Shepítko did not act for their own benefit, but only in the interests of the state, for the benefit of NAC Naftogaz Ukraine. Think about it, they've been illegally deprived of their will for a long time, as well as those suspected of murder, robbery, rape and other social and dangerous activities. It must be borne in mind that the presiding judge of the Pecher district court of Kiev, Sergey Vuk, is at the same time in charge of the prosecution of both Valery Yvashchenka and Lucenka and Makarenko and Shepítko. Under such conditions, our conviction, to keep Makarenko alive.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u13	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u14	is a violation of their constitutional rights and freedoms and of service crime in the actions of the relevant officials. There is no doubt that the latter will have to be held accountable.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u15	Thank you. Shishkina, "BUT" faction, "The Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u16	Please pass the word to Sas Sergio Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u17	Well, you took 20 seconds. Well, we don't have to go through these discussions. To whom do you grant the right to speak? Sergei Sas, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u18	Thank you. Sergey Sas, faction of the Timoshenko Yulia Block. Dear Lord Chairman! Dear colleagues from most of them! I would like to remind you that the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in accordance with the requirements of article 85 and article 12 of the Constitution of Ukraine, should exercise its authority on the basis, within and in the manner provided for in the Constitution and in the laws of Ukraine. In accordance with the provisions of article 240 of the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine listens to the information of the officials whom it elects, appoints and agrees to the appointment of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. It is among such persons who have been appointed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine that the Attorney General of Ukraine is responsible. In demanding information from the Attorney General, we would like to hear a justification for the crimes against the leader of the opposition, the leader of the Ukrainian Prime Minister's parliamentary party, who successfully carried out his duties in the year of the global financial crisis. [[It's the Attorney General, not the other officers!]] The public is aware of three criminal cases against Timoshenko, which have been widely commented on by prosecutors and the "court" media. It's about buying thousands of ambulances. As we know, according to information provided by the Republic of Austria, cars were purchased for Ukraine at a price lower than 20 percent in Europe. We know that these cars have helped tens, hundreds of thousands of our citizens, many of them have saved lives. Next thing you know, it's about using the Kyoto Protocol. We know that the Attorney General’s Office today reports that one of the world’s five most famous audit firms has concluded that there are no violations of the Kyoto Protocol’s money use. No, it's not. Instead, during the crisis, tens of millions of our citizens received their pension on time. And the next farce is the so-called gas farce, where is the prosecutor's ruling on a criminal case that was completely unconfirmed. The charges there were found in court. So, your honorary colleagues, our faction demands that the Attorney General be heard from the rostrum. If we fail to comply with the requirements of the law, we will have to leave this meeting. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u19	Vladimir Karpuk, faction “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”. It entitles Viacheslav Kirilenko to speak. Please. Landik will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u20	Viacheslav Kirilenko, Party "For Ukraine!" Dear colleagues, honourable voters, we are not looking forward to any clear answer from the Attorney General's Office on matters related to political persecution, as well as from representatives of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, because more than a year ago, one answer from the opposition from these authorities was, "No, there was nothing, there was no persecution, nothing happened." To all the requests and suggestions from the authorities on the part of these authorities, the answer is always positive: "Yes, there is!" - and under the twilight. This means that the law enforcement agencies have turned into a tool to implement the mechanism of political persecution, because how many times have we not invited representatives of the IMF here, prosecutors on any of the cases, we've been called white and we've been called black? Remember, from the moment of ratification, the so-called Harkow agreements. All interrogations and testimonies indicated that there was no attack on the opposition ranks, but those responsible for defending their point of view, the voter’s point of view, and national interests, and until the latest events of May 9. "There was nothing in Lviv on 9 May," the Minister of Interior told us here recently. So without waiting for information from the Attorney General's Office, you might already be able to say in advance that it will be said, "No, there is no persecution." At the same time, our colleague, former interior minister, Yuri Lucenko, has been in the detention facility for many months. On many occasions, I attended court hearings related to his case. I know exactly what Lucenko has done to all the demands of the investigation is the answer that he has made to all the volumes of the criminal case, no obstacles to the investigation. His health deteriorates rapidly; eight times the deputies of various factions signed the application for Luzenek’s removal into custody, even collecting the necessary money to ensure that no further arguments were made in the investigation regarding his continued stay in custody. And what is the reasoned answer? What did someone show us about the social threat and danger faced by Yuri Lucenko? No, no reasoned answer was given to us in this room or in the courtroom. This leads me to conclude that all these discussions in the plenary room with representatives of the Public Prosecutor's Office, the Ministry of Internal Affairs on the subject of political repression are unsuspecting. Obviously, the authorities only understand the language of the non-parliamentary forces, obviously the authorities are waiting for the moment when people who don't know what to buy for any product in the store will go out on the street and say no! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u21	Vladimir Landik, faction of the Party of the Regions. Alexander Stoyan will perform.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u22	Thank you. Please pass the word to Stoyan, my colleague. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u23	Please. Yes, there are, dear colleagues. Vasil Shpak is next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u24	Dear voters, dear colleagues! I would like to draw your attention to the vote yesterday under one very principled law: yesterday, the Party of Regions unanimously, together with our fellow communists and the Block of Lithuania, voted in favour of the Government's Retirement Reform Act to respond to the work. Before that, there were very serious meetings at the President's Administration with the leadership of the faction of Efraemov, Chechtov, Pecklesenko, representatives from the Committee of Social Policy of Harry, Suho, Stoyan, where we gave a principle assessment of the pension reform bill. It says that there is democracy in our political power, there are democratic approaches. This tells us that we, although we have our own government, express a principled position. I can't remember in five years what it would be like for Timoshenko's government, because all the laws they made were "good." I cannot remember, too, that in the time of the Timoshenko government, there was at least one social law. But I can think of something else, and the TV people know about it when the wall was the block of Julia Timoshenko, when we wanted to raise the minimum pension from 498 bracelets to 553. And when our authority came, the first thing we did is we double-checked the minimum pension. I want to inform our television and radio audience that today's minimum pension is 764 dollars, it will be 800 dollars by the end of the year, and in 2012 we will fulfil the commitment made by President Viktor Yanukovic to Ukrainian citizens: the pension will amount to a minimum of over a thousand dollars. I also want to say that given that the economy has started to work, the government has been quick to resolve social issues. I'll tell you, for teachers and doctors, not since October 1, as planned, but from July 1st, there's an increase of 120 to 150 dollars for these categories. Next, a pleasant report for graduates of medical institutions and pharmaceutical institutions who decided to work in rural areas: the size of government aid is a 5-fold minimum wage. That's 5,000 today. So those graduates who are going to work in the country are going to get the help of 5,000. I would also like to inform social workers that from September 1st, the salary increases by 10-30 percent. And what I'm saying is, dear colleagues, that we're now looking at all of the social parameters from the increase. This suggests that the party, despite the fact that there is always no BUT and no opposition to the voting of social packages in the room, is taking steps to resolve the programming positions defined by the President. And we'll do everything we promised our voters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u25	Vasil Fedorovich Shpak, faction of the People's Party. Babourin will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u26	Dear colleagues of the Ukrainian National Deputies! Dear citizens of Ukraine, our constituents! I want to draw your attention to pressing issues, to the situation that has arisen with price policy in the agri-industrial system. Prices in the consumer market for agricultural products today are the type of charitable aid to the trade sector that takes products from the manufacturer, usually with a 60-day schedule, sets its prices, which have grown 30-40 times in recent years, and receives unearned profits and dictates price policies on the market. Is it possible for a manufacturer to make a profit when his costs are higher than those of a realizing price? Yes, the purchase price for milk is 3.85 bracelets per liter in collective farms. Live - weight pig meat is 14 pounds [1 kg]. And the cost is 14-16. As a result, consumption of basic foods per person has decreased. Inflation is on the rise, food security is on the rise. It did not become a stabilizing body in curbing prices and preventing deficits in the production market The Agrarian Fund of Ukraine. This is seen in the markets of Greeks, flours, sugars, peas and vegetables, and dairy products. It is also worth noting that in the structure of agricultural production, about 20 percent of the cost is energy, the proportion of which has grown two and a half times over the years of independence, that is, more than 50 percent. Despite the support of the country, farmers today have to pay almost 30 percent more for oil products than they pay for agriculture in Poland, Estonia, or Lithuania. For example, if in Germany one liter of diesel fuel costs 12 to 14 dollars, then the average letter of milk is 20 dollars, and we have the opposite. The increase in the cost of energy carriers, chemicals, and other material costs has dramatically raised the cost of production. Even subsidies made through government programs to support agricultural producers do not affect the cost-effectiveness of products. The food market in Europe and other developed countries is severely regulated by the state, by market mechanisms, and none of the politicians there talk about what it is regulated by the government, as they try to do in us. So we need to work on a price policy in a country that will ensure the stable profitability of agricultural production, as is the case in other European countries. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u27	National Deputy Babourin, Communist faction. The next one will be instead of Samofal Leonid Kojar.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u28	Dear colleagues! Yesterday a mass protest was held in Zaporozhye City at the initiative of the Central Committee of Trade Unions of Metal Workers. A situation today in the steel industry has led to the walls of the regional metallurgical administration. Indefatigable electricity prices and tariffs have forced metallurgical enterprises to stop. The sad experience of the Zaporozhye aluminum plant has not been taught by our Government. You remember, there was a foreign investor who was trying to do something, but then he waved his hand, because all the treatments about electricity tariff cuts didn't lead to anything. And today, an aluminum metal mill, the only aluminum producer cut on scrap metal, and we've lost the manufacturer. Therefore, yesterday's statements by metalsmiths, business leaders, presented harsh conditions to the President, the Government, the Supreme Council. And the metalsmiths told them to resort to mass here in Kiev, as the miners did. Today, we allocate the corresponding amounts to the coal industry every year. And the treatments of the metalsmiths remain the voice of the screaming in the desert. The Communist faction supports the fair demand of the metalsmiths and we address the President, the Government, Vladimir Mihajlovich, to you the demands that yesterday's pickets and rallyers have already sent to you to accept. My statement is considered to be a deputative request.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u29	Leonid Kojara, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u30	Good morning, distinguished national MPs! I would like, first of all, to mark the key foreign policy event last week: the participation of President Viktor Fedorović Janukovic of Ukraine in the crucial international forum of the 17th Central European Summit in Warsaw. As you know, this forum was attended by U.S. President Barack Obama. The forum was devoted to discussing democratic transformations in the region. The President of Ukraine shared with his colleagues the experience of European reforms in our country. I would like to point out in particular one fact that is particularly relevant in the background of the repeated increase in opposition complaints about alleged political persecution in Ukraine. The best evidence that the President's arguments were accepted and his colleagues in Warsaw was the unanimous support of the leaders of central European countries by the Ukrainian proposal to hold the next 18th Central European summit in Kiev in 2012. The President’s visit to Warsaw was a fitting opportunity for a series of fruitful bilateral meetings of the head of state with foreign colleagues. Everybody knows about Victor Yanukovich and Barack Obama, who were killed by the whole world. Just to say that this was the second meeting of the leaders of two countries in almost a year. Also during the summit, President Janukovic met with heads and important European countries such as Poland, Austria, Germany. During the meeting, the Head of State discussed a number of important issues from the perspectives of Ukraine's European integration to the specific aspects of the Euro-2012 championship. A number of important international visits have taken place in recent weeks and along the line of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Mr. Dimitris Droutsas, Minister of Foreign Affairs of Greece, has just completed his official visit to Ukraine. On May 18, an official visit was made by the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine to Romania. For those of you who don't know, I'll remind you, this was the first visit to Bucharest by the head of the Ukrainian foreign policy department in the last six years. By the way, this is a visual example of how the past authorities view relations with a very important neighbouring country member of the European Union and NATO. During June, a series of important measures were planned in the area of European integration: on June 6-7, there will be a long-planned visit of Viktor Yanukovic to the Kingdom of Spain and further negotiations on the free trade zone between Ukraine and the European Union. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u31	Yes, one minute, instead of Dubil, it's Steshenko. Out of the way, please. Please don't waste time.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u32	It's a high-profile presidency, and it's a well-respected part of this plenary meeting. You know, the faction of Yulia Tymoshenko's Fatherland turned its "admirable uniforms" into working uniforms today, everyday, demonstrating the same full and moral and political unity both with its leader, Yulia Volodymyrna Timoshenko and with the "conscience prisoners" who are still behind bars today. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, the leader of our faction, Ivan Grigorovich Kirilenko, made our position clear yesterday. We have nothing against Mr. Kuzmin, the attorney general's first deputy, anything personal. But according to the Law on the Regulations, according to the authority of the Supreme Council, we wanted to see the Attorney -General in the rostrum to answer today.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u33	Complete your opinion, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u34	..to those issues that concern not only society, but also every policy in our country. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, we firmly declare: with no objection but to listen to Mr. Kuzmin's statement, the faction has no intention. Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u35	Ladies and gentlemen of the national council, the performances. I beg your attention, dear fellows, one minute! The question is very important, I think it goes far beyond the Law of Rules. And let's not refer to the Rules, it's got a political tone. Now, concerning the law and the Rules. Article 2 of the Procurator's Act states that the Attorney-General of Ukraine informs the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the state of legality in Ukraine in writing. Now let's move on, if we all refer to the Rules, we'll move on to the Rules and I'll remind you once again of the Regulations. 240 articles, paragraph 1. Please listen carefully: "The annual written reports and information – that is, the annual information, as well as the annual written reports – are submitted to the Supreme Council and made available to the National Deputies." They're served and served. Item 2. When national deputies study this information and consider it necessary to listen directly, the Supreme Council of Ukraine should make a special decision on this matter. So, dear colleagues, we made a compromise decision yesterday. And I think it goes beyond, and I ask you to listen, both outside the Rules and beyond the Procurator's Act. But based on what we need to have a dialogue, to consider any relevant issues, we made the right decisions yesterday, I think. And I don't see us talking about any demarches and mutual accusations here today. Let's do what we've decided, and then life will. So, dear fellows, thank you for all your performances. Regarding the proposals, the requirements that were expressed in the speeches of the national MPs. I ask you to prepare the necessary assignments. Is there no objection? Dear colleagues, yesterday the Supreme Council of Ukraine decided to consider the matter after the speeches of the national deputies, namely: information from the Ukrainian Attorney General's Office on criminal cases against former Prime Minister Yulia Timoshenko. Addressing the Supreme Council of Ukraine with appropriate information will be the first Deputy Attorney General of Ukraine Renat Raveliyovich Kuzmin. Dear colleagues, we use this issue under Rule 240 of the Rules. Although we will continue to have to adopt a special procedure to deal with the matter, it is practically out of line with the problem. But, Your Honor, this is the policy that is proposed: to provide direct information for up to 20 minutes, depending on what information is in the attorney general's first deputy, and to answer questions within 20 minutes. I would like to remind you that the question needs to be formulated within one minute. No objections? None. I invite you to the rostrum of Attorney General Kuzmin Renata Raveliyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u36	Dear national electorates, due to Parliament's decision, I have been instructed by the Attorney-General of Ukraine to report to you on the situation that has arisen around criminal cases concerning former Prime Minister of Ukraine Yulia Timoshenko. I would like to remind all in attendance that 12 criminal cases were violated at different times with regard to Julius Volodymyrny Timoshenko. And all of them at different times were investigated by the prosecutor's office, and relevant reports were made to Parliament on all of these matters. And I'll remind you again about these things. Regarding ex-Prime Minister Timoshenko, 12 criminal cases have been committed. All these cases about official crimes. It's abuse of power, it's excess of power, it's tax evasion, it's bribes to officials, it's serious and especially serious crimes. It should be noted that eight cases concerning ex-Prime Minister Timoshenko were closed by the Attorney-General, personally the Attorney-General of Ukraine, Piscoo Svetoslav Mikhajlovich. 4 cases concerning Julia Volodymyrovna are currently being handled by the Ukrainian prosecutor's office. Another criminal case involving the organization and surrender of bribes to officials of the Ministry of Defence of Russia has been committed and investigated in the Russian Federation, the Chief Military Prosecutor’s Office of the Russian Attorney General. This case was closed in 2005, on non-rehabilitative grounds, in view of the fact that the deadline for liability for organizing and giving bribes to the military has expired. Let me remind you that the Russian military all who received bribes from Ex-Prime Minister Timoshenko were drawn to criminal responsibility in the Russian Federation. And the criminal case concerning Julius Volodymyrna was closed, according to her statement that she did not object to the closure of the case in connection with the fact that the term of attraction had expired. I'm going back to the cases that are being investigated by the Ukrainian prosecutor's office. This is a well - known issue of the purposeless use of funds received by Ukraine under the Kyoto Protocol. This is about the purchase of ambulances. And this is about so-called gas contracts. The first two cases were completed in April. The investigation of these matters has been completed. And Julia Volodymyrna, along with her supporters, is familiar with the material of the matter. Last thing on gas contracts, it's over on May 24. The May 24 events have been widely publicized, but the case has been completed, and now Julia Volodymyryn and her advocate are familiar with the material of the case. Once the accused and her guardian have been brought to justice, these cases will be referred to the court for trial. Now a few words about the activities of the prosecutor’s office in this matter. I want everyone to hear me and understand that the D.A. is working in a very tense manner on these matters. The only task of the investigation is to gather evidence, both of the evidence of the accusation and of the evidence of innocence. Collect evidence, analyze it, and present it to the Ukrainian court for final decision. The next prosecutor's office is not sentencing him, he's not deciding whether he's a Ukrainian citizen or not. The next prosecutor collects the evidence and submits it to the court. And only in Ukraine, and not only in Ukraine, but in all countries of the world, does he decide to plead guilty, to call her a criminal or not. This is the work that the Office of the Attorney General is doing today. We've gathered enough evidence to indicate the possibility of accusing ex-Prime Minister Yulia Volodymyrovna Timoshenko of official crimes. And we did it. Next. The last step is to refer these cases to the court. And the prosecution's position on this issue can't be different. We have one wish, let the court of Ukraine give an assessment of the evidence gathered and say whether the ex-premier is guilty or not. And let the court, with sufficient evidence and grounds, render an arraignment. If the court admits that the evidence is insufficient; if the court acknowledges that the charges are not sufficient; or if the court admits that the ex-premier is innocent, let the court pronounce an acquittal, and with that acquittal the prosecutor will or will not. The prosecutor's procedural rights – to appeal the court – are the prosecution's procedural rights, I emphasize, a prosecutor, not an investigator. Investigator's job is to gather evidence and bring it to trial, that's all. Therefore, excessive politicalization and the accusation of an investigation that someone in charge of the Office of the Attorney-General is running some kind of political order here is a hoax. And to accuse the investigator of being politically involved by following some of the criminal orders in the evidence collection, I apologize, but this is not a state loan. The investigator has no other job but to investigate crimes, well, no. If he could do anything else, he might be doing anything else. But I repeat, the investigator has no other job but to investigate, collect evidence and bring them to trial. Thus, I believe that the Henprocurator’s department of inquiry is legally, professionally, and effectively carrying out its duties. Followers who investigate these cases are under intense pressure to do their work, which is somehow not perceived by some part of the Ukrainian politics. I'll get the numbers. During the 4 months of this year, the investigation unit received 115, stressing 115, various parliamentary questions regarding the invocation of the responsibility of Julius Volodymyrna Timoshenko. I would like to remind you that there were only 100 working days in five months this year, respected nationals, 100 working days, and 115 requests. I calculated by the old principles, you know, as a human clock, almost 900 hours of human time would have to be spent studying and responding to these parliamentary treatments. That's what I'd like to do. Listen up. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to stress once again in the absence of any political involvement in the investigation and I ask you to note that the investigation is working in a very tense manner. If there's a question, I'll answer it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u37	Dear National Deputies! If you have any questions, please sign up for the question. It's a recording. Names of the national MPs, please. National Deputy Komar, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u38	Please pass the word to Chechev Mikhail Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u39	Mikhailo Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u40	Dear Rinat Ravelievich! In my opinion, the most informed person in any State is his first person, the leader. Last week, on Friday at Freedom of Words, the leader of the Orange Midan, the leader of the Orange Revolution, former President Viktor Yushchenko, spoke for 2.5 hours about the surrender of national interests in the conclusion of the cable gas contract. In my opinion, this was Victor Yushchenk's best public address -- honest, honest, patriotic for his entire political career. Tens of millions of people, while breathing, listened for 2.5 hours on live to the surrender of their national interests. Question. Is it not possible for the discovery of the leader of the Orange Revolution, former President Yushchenka, to be included in the gas case on how Ukraine's national interests were handed over, how a cable contract had been concluded, which put our industry on blades? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u41	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u42	The ex-President of Ukraine, Victor Andreevich Yushchenko, was questioned in a criminal case on gas contracts and his testimony is in a criminal case. With regard to the surrender of national interests and the political evaluation of these events, this is a matter for Parliament. The nature of the crime under gas contracts is as follows. Prime Minister Timoshenko is aware that the decision to adopt directives can only be taken by the Cabinet of Ministers, instructing the head of the Ukrainian delegation Naftogaza Dubina to sign potentially unfavourable gas contracts for Ukraine. The Head of Naftogaza Dubin in categorically refused to sign these contracts because he did.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u43	Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u44	As he believed that this would cause harm to Ukraine's public interests. However, Prime Minister Timoshenko, according to information available to the investigation, categorically demanded that he conclude the contract in the event of his non-signatory dismissal. In doing so, Dublin had before it directives signed by Prime Minister Timoshenko with the seal of the Cabinet of Ministers, which Dubina had perceived as directives adopted by the Cabinet of Ministers. In that case, he had signed gas contracts knowingly for Prime Minister Timoshenko. What's the rush of the moment? Ukraine's laws and intergovernmental agreements indicate that if gas prices rise, transit prices increase proportionally. It's a famous formula. In our case, the price of gas was raised to a base 450, and the price of transit was left to Ex-Prime Minister Timoshenko. The variance and damage to this operation alone amounted to more than one and a half billion bracelets. That is the crime that proves or proved to be the consequence. We want an assessment of this to be made by the court. And, again, if the court has sufficient data to find Timoshenko not guilty of this crime, the court can rest assured that the verdict is justifiable and that it should be brought to a standstill. However, if the court finds our arguments sufficient, the court will have to order a conviction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u45	Igor Zvaric, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u46	Thank you. Please give the floor to the National Deputy of Sulkovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u47	Paul Sulkowski, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u48	It's a faction of the Party of the Regions, Equinox. Thank you very much for being the attorney general's first deputy. Finally, we received not one piece of information about this policy that is happening today with the criminal, but today we have an extremely balanced, calm information for which we are very grateful. I literally traveled through the Zacarpathian region in the spring and stopped there by the familiar residents of the area asking what was happening in the eighth and ninth years. The government of Ulysses Volodymyrna is already getting that the mass, the mass of charges against her colliding, but you will not be able to make any of these mistakes and this futile management. Government funds were extremely high.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u49	Well, finish up, finish the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u50	Yes, yes, thank you. And you know that the funds were extremely large, and then we had information for Parliament that the funds were stolen. In fact, the elements are not eliminated, the bridges are not.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u51	Thank you, thank you, thank you. Dear colleagues, first you make up questions, then you make comments to them. The question is understandable. Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u52	Thank you for the question, but I have to remind you that Parliament has adopted an appropriate decision on which I must report criminal cases concerning ex-Prime Minister Timoshenko. With regard to others there, perhaps the illegal activity of Kabmin, there is no criminal record of this fact in the conduct of the Henprocurator’s investigation unit.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u53	National MP Schmelov Svetlana, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u54	Please, Comrade Cibenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u55	Peter Cibenko, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u56	Thank you. Communist faction, Peter Cibenko. The Honourable Reporter, and the hysterics, the stupor in which the so-called opposition is today, clearly shows that the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine has finally committed crimes to the real betrayal of Ukraine's national interests by Mrs. Timoshenko. Another substantiate of this fact is the fact that one of the U.S. courts decided to return 17 billion dollars to Ukraine. 17 million dollars overpaid for drugs by the government of Timoshenko. I want to ask this question: is there any intention of the Attorney General's Office to include these materials in the investigation materials? And secondly, when the investigation materials come to court so that the court can evaluate the actions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u57	A criminal case involving fraud in the Ministry of Health has already been completed. If the materials of the Oregon Court of America or any other official material on this subject come to the attention of the investigator, the criminal case concerning the Volodymyrna Timoshenko, which relates to ambulances and other abuses in the Ministry of Health, may be renewed. With sufficient grounds, another criminal case may be committed. These cases can be unified and investigated again. But this is true of the matter of ambulances, perhaps crimes related to the Kyoto Protocol. But this cannot be related in any way to the gas contracts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u58	Ivan Popescu, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u59	Thank you. Sand, faction of the Party of the Regions. Dear Renata Raveliovich, because the part of the opposition that has now left this Hall has given rise to a wide political resonance, including the international one. The subtext is considered to be political. In addition, it is thought that there have been certain violations during the investigation. A specific question: please tell me if all the procedural standards in this case have been met, and do you think you are under any kind of political pressure? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u60	Thank you. I told you about the pressure. And I want to remind you that the Ukrainian Criminal Code provides for criminal responsibility for unlawful interference with the investigator's activities. In doing so, the law does not provide for a list of possible interferences. These can be both conditions, bribes, threats, and other means used by those who want to prevent the investigator from carrying out his service duties. Infinite requests for criminal, disciplinary and other liability of the investigator, the supervising prosecutor, the first Deputy Attorney General of Ukraine, the Attorney General, the prosecutor’s officers, do not contribute to the effective performance of the national electorate. And what happens to these criminal cases goes far beyond common sense, but beyond decency and correctness. I will prove some facts to you, and you will be able to give an evaluation yourself. On April 20, Julia Volodymyrovna Timoshenko never appeared to the prosecutor’s office, and by this day, she was not familiar with criminal cases that had already been completed. And you know that a case cannot be brought before a court until the defendant signs it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u61	Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u62	until the defendant and his guardian sign their signatures in the corresponding protocol. On April 20, then, Julia Volodymyrna was not in charge of the investigation and was not familiar with these criminal cases. Tell us how an investigator can bring a case to court if the defence does not sign the protocols or even appear to be familiar. The other thing is gas contracts. A dozen times, the investigator calls on Julia Volodymyr and her protector of the national deputy Vlasenka, and the investigators, under various circumstances, break down the investigation. For example, Julia Volodymyrne comes to the investigator and says that the follow-up will be mandatory, but only with the protector. Where's the protector? No, it's not. So she went, the next day the protector came and said, "I've come to do the follow-up, but there's no defense against my own." Let's go. The next day the same thing: Julia Volodymyr is without a protector, and the day after that, a defender without Julia Volodymyrna. Volodymyrni's courtroom has a message of appearance to the prosecutor. She demonstrated this message and said that she would not appear to the investigator. Such examples can be cited for a long time, but not to take up time. There is still such an interesting situation. Indictee Timoshenko is familiar with the material of the case and writes to the investigator instead of writing his signature. I'm going to quote, "The president is betraying national interests. Prosecutors and investigators fabricate criminal cases according to mob orders. The Mafia is in charge of Ukraine. Every criminal from Yanukovich to a lying investigator will be brought to justice. They're all corrupts and criminals. But I believe they're all together. Glory to Ukraine! Julia Timoshenko." In another protocol, I quote, "It's completely falsified. The DMV and the DMV are under the influence of the Mafia. Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko." Please tell me what to do to the prosecutor’s office, who is forced to see and endure every day. The prosecutor’s office was told that he, as well as other officials of the Henprosecutor’s office, would be arrested immediately after Timoshenko came to power. Would you please say this is a valid attitude towards the investigator? What's that? Is this the attitude of politics towards the Public Prosecutor's Office or to justice at all? If the investigator’s task is to gather evidence and bring it to trial, let us find a relationship in court. There is a dispute in which the prosecution and the defendant's party consider the facts to be specific and the defence party considers them unconvinced. And this legal dispute, the honorable national electorate, must be decided by the court. And we urge all who can understand this: not to interfere with the investigator's work — once, not to politicize these criminal cases — two and three — to give the court a peaceful hearing without drums, no bells, no shouts and no bells under the court building. And the last. Today. Questions? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u63	Vladimir Landik, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u64	Please submit your right to my colleague Stoyan.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u65	Alexander Stoyan, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u66	Dear reporter! In the second half of 2009, when our committee examined the situation, the Social Policy Committee concluded that the government of Timoshenko had nothing to pay the pension. Let me remind you that this was the beginning of the President's electoral campaign. Imagine how for three months before the new year, the government would not have paid the pension -- it was out of what, of course, which would have been in pain, or how much would Timoshenko have taken? What Does It Do? Tymoshenko? It takes the International Monetary Fund -- loans and retires. Why isn't our government being granted credit right now? Because they were not assigned at the time. The Kyoto Protocol is not intended. And when we see Tymoshenko's interview, she says all the time, "Judge me for paying people's pension." I want to be confirmed whether this was a sign of official crime when the funds were allocated to other purposes by the International Monetary Fund, when the Kyoto Protocol's funds were issued to others.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u67	Yes, please answer. Now. Thank you. I've already understood the question, because they're still insisting on the issue. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u68	Dear National Deputies! That's not true. The costs of the Kyoto Protocol were not used by the Prime Minister solely to pay the pension. That's not true. While the Kyoto Protocol’s funds were used, the pension budget was sufficient. And the investigation showed that the government had the opportunity to pay pensions without touching Kyoto money. I'll remind you that under the law, Kyoto money can only be used for environmental purposes and all. If even they were used for other purposes, including social ones, it would also be illegal and the law provides for criminal responsibility. But I remind you, that's not true, the Kyoto Protocol's pension costs were not used. And Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko spoke directly about this in several of her interviews. Appropriate manipulations are taking place, and we understand that. But what is happening in the investigation?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u69	Yes, please, dear colleagues, calm down!
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u70	I want to pay attention to one way of being abused, and I want you, the national electorate, to know that. There's a legal term for "abuse of the law." "Abusing the law."
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u71	Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u72	I've illustrated it this way. A citizen's pedestrian has the right to travel on a footpath. Well, he has every citizen's right to walk. But imagine a situation where a pedestrian begins to walk through the zebra for several hours. All cars and all road users are standing and waiting for the pedestrian to exercise his right to walk on foot. Tell me, is a pedestrian breaking the law? Well, apparently not, but he's exercising his right to walk. But why his right to walk should violate the rights of the rest of the movement to move along the road. And why is the ambulance, why are the police, fire department vehicles supposed to be standing and waiting while it's there? Now, do you have the authority to point out to this pedestrian that he is violating his rights by exercising his own rights as all other members of the movement? And why can't we today call on the accused and his counsel to stop abuse of his right, which violates the rights of other parties to the process? Yes, familiarizing yourself with the case is the right of the accused and his counsel, not the duty. But in such a case, the accused may refuse to consult the case material by making a statement. In our case, the defense has made a statement that they will be familiar with the case, but when it is their right. They can get to know each other for a year, two, three, and twenty-three. But tell us why the right to know may or should be in violation of the rights of other parties to the process?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u73	Dear colleagues, take your time. The answer is complete, so don't be hasty, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u74	So, honourable nationals, I would like to remind you once again that the prosecution's investigation is working effectively, vigorously and for the sake of national interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u75	Thank you. Dear colleagues, time for questioning is over. Consider the following questions. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. Dear colleagues, thank you, everything, yes. Thank you, that's all. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, we have concluded our consideration of the matter in accordance with the Rules. Do you have any questions about the faction? Please, in a minute. Please, the Communist faction. Just a minute. Come on. Alla Alexandrovska, please. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u76	Alexandrovsky, the Communist faction, the city of Harkov. I regret that we have failed to ask Renata Ravelievich a question. That was the question. It was said that only 12 criminal cases had been brought against the former Prime Minister. It was said that in Russia these cases were, some of them were closed after the limitation period. I would like to know on what grounds the cases in Ukraine that were closed by former Attorney General Piscoon have been closed. That's a very interesting question. Whether these cases were closed or not. And the last. Speaking of which, unfortunately, I am. The prosecutor's gone, I can't ask. And the last. We have recently adopted amendments to the Administrative Code and we have just discussed that the right to know the material of the accused's case may be limited to an investigation if the investigation finds that the accused misuses his or her right. That's why I think it's the perspective of this case.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u77	Yes, please, Mikhailo Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u78	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues, we have heard objectively logical and understandable, accessible to all citizens, for all millions of radio listeners who have listened to the information of the Deputy Attorney-General. But he said he made one request that we cannot fail to respond to if we really think we are democratic, if we really are not merely declaring, but intending to address the problems of European integration in a serious way. He asked that policies be separate from the work of law enforcement agencies, that they should not press the work of courts, prosecutors, the police. He's absolutely right. The more law enforcement agencies work in a calm environment, the more objective the outcome and, most importantly, that this outcome will be understood to the maximum extent possible for society. We therefore call on everyone to distance themselves from the work of law enforcement agencies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u79	Yes, Oleg Zarubinsky. Then Ivan Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u80	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Dear colleagues, I returned last night with my colleagues from the session of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly. And there was one report, more specifically, that the draft report of the Committee on Civil Security contained this formulation, which was hard enough and imperative. That in Ukraine anticorruption measures are being thwarted by the fact that the subject of these investigations is unique, I point out that in the English translation, the word itself is unique to the opposition’s representatives. Unfortunately, I couldn’t ask a question, I didn’t sign up. But it may be that Vladimir Mikhailovich has provided us with information on statistics and the quality of those who are subject to anticorruption investigations in Ukraine. Because in the absence of such information, or only verbally given information, there may be a difference, including manipulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u81	Thank you. Ivan Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u82	Dear colleagues! I went out to the rostrum for the reason that they're about to hand over the card. And I want to say the next thing. We're giving up a proper report, which five times in his speech, he's gonna decide everything. And you have seen that even the arguments about Kyoto’s money are leading, which is part of the five international audit companies, and you have concluded that there is absolutely no abuse! The money's in place, it's all right. These materials are on the table at the Attorney General’s Office. The second audit firm confirmed that the Austrian government had helped the Ukrainian government by selling cars 20 percent cheaper under interstate contracts. There's no abuse. Money, more loyally, is an abuse when signing gas contracts — another leading audit firm has concluded that national interests have not been lost but that national interests have been protected! And these materials are also on the table at the Attorney General's office. Let us give the proper report, which says: “Let the court decide. ” And if he does, we'll agree. I'm talking.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u83	Ivan Grigorovich, you're about to have a performance. Well, 10 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u84	I'm talking to most of you: don't press the D.A. and don't press the court and you'll see there'll be reprisals.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u85	Thank you, thank you. "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense," who? Please, Kirilo Kulikov.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u86	Thank you very much, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I understand that justice is justice, everything will be decided by the court. But I do not fully understand that I see many people today accused of violating their official duties, which have been behind bars for a year or six months. But there are people who are accused of, for example, a robbery and this is a team of an active Kiev mayor, but they are released after two court decisions to stand guard, and the prosecutor's office takes the case of a lawyer. So I want to understand, what are those arguments that the court of the first instance, the second instance, did not accept? I mean, there are crimes in office, and there's a robbery. And I understand what is serious and what is especially serious crimes. I mean, I don't quite understand how they fit into the law: one way or another, the other. So I want an answer to these questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u87	Dear National Deputies! We have concluded our consideration of the matter. At the same time, two factions, the "BUT" faction, "The Fatherland" and "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense", demand a recess to announce consultations. () [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, one minute. So let's say we have practice. Well, after the break they're going to make statements or before the break, we need to consider ratification. Please, if you'd like to make an application. () [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, please make two statements. Two signatures and make a statement, no problem.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u88	The Yulia Timoshenko faction called for a report by the Attorney General of Ukraine on the causes and essence of the discovery of so-called criminal cases against Yulia Timoshenko, Yuri Lucenka, other members of the opposition forces who are currently in prison. We expected to hear clear and clear answers from the Attorney General of Ukraine, on what grounds does the Attorney General try to arrest Julia Timoshenko, and individual opposition representatives are behind bars? The Attorney General's not here. There is no doubt that open criminal cases against opposition representatives are the political orders of the Bank and the demonstration of the regime over opposition representatives. This is just one fact: the conclusion of the International Auditorium, which has completely broken the charges under the gas contracts. Disgusting cases involving their opponents are committed in the spirit of repression in the 37th year: the courts make illegal decisions on the inconvenient, based solely on the direction of power, not on the principles of the rule of law and the laws of Ukraine. The majority in Parliament, unfortunately, create favourable conditions for political repression and the fight against opposition in the country. The regime is panickingly afraid of Julia Timoshenko, who is today the main threat and obstacle to the establishment of an uncontrollable total dictatorship in Ukraine and the unhindered theft of national wealth. That is why all the country’s law enforcement agencies have been overthrown to destroy Julia Timoshenko and her associates. Almost took the life of Yuri Lucenko, soon after a year of illegal detention under the watch of Igor Didenko and Anatoly Makarenko, Bogdan Danilishin had to seek political refuge. Moreover, Yanukovich's regime is afraid of its own people, so the situation is in the way of total banning any peaceful gatherings of citizens that have led to despair by anti-national politics. Persecution of opposition parties, taxpayers, movement "Go!"the initiators of the recent "day of wrath." In order to legitimize large-scale political repression and to remove any responsibility, the authorities have initiated a coup d'état that completely destroys an independent judiciary branch of power, and the courts of all levels move into manual administration. Therefore, we demand an immediate cessation of repression against the leaders of the opposition. the country and, first of all, against Yulia Timoshenko, to repeal the Law on the Judiciary and the Status of Judges, which made femid a hostage of power, to repeal the Law on the Limitation of the Time to Inform the Prosecutor and the Defender of the Criminal Case, to consider immediately in Parliament the opposition bill on the jury's trial, to which all Ukrainian citizens are entitled.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u89	Thank you. Thank you, Your Honor. Please, let's not. They've done everything they can under the rules. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm asking you, dear colleagues, all of it. [[B in m in s a l in]] All of it. Thank you. Thank you. Well, please, Your Honor, you're doing it wrong. You said you'd make a statement and you'd work, so you don't have to. You don't have to. I'm doing everything by the Rules and I'm even going to meet them. Calm down. Respect for the faction is overwhelming. Please don't make people laugh. I want to say again, you said you'd make a statement and you'd work. Did you get the time to make a statement?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u90	I'm telling you, you did it all. Please, Your Honor, don't abuse me. I ask you for my right. Ladies and gentlemen, let us move on to the issues set out in the schedule for today. The issue of ratification. I announce for consideration the draft Law on the Ratification of the Second Additional Protocol to the European Convention on Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters. [[Registration number 0207]] Reporter – Governmental Commissioner for Human Rights of the European Court of Human Rights Lutkovska Valerija Volodymyrna, co-rapporteur – Deputy Head of the Committee for European Integration Kupil Stepan Volodymyrovich. Dear colleagues, there is an offer to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[11:27:15.]] For-182 Decision taken. The reporter, I remind you again, is the Government Commissioner for Human Rights Affairs of the European Court of Human Rights Valery Volodymyrovna Lutkovska.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u91	Thank you very much. Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! Your opinion is proposed by the draft Act ratifying the Second Additional Protocol to the European Convention on Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters. I should point out that the European Convention itself took effect in April 59th, and in 78th year, certain ones were introduced to it. First changes, and this was the First Additional Protocol to this convention. Yet international legal cooperation was expanding, and it needed new forms. At a certain point in time, the member states of the Council of Europe agreed that there should be a Second Additional Protocol to this Convention in order to standardise new forms of international legal cooperation in criminal matters in the event that either a witness, or an accused person, or a word of evidence is located in the territory of another State. In this regard, almost this Second Additional Protocol, which Ukraine signed in 2001, has emerged and is now proposed to be ratified. In accordance with the Law on Ukraine's International Contracts, the relevant implementation draft law was also introduced by the President to the Supreme Council of Ukraine and yesterday was put into the order of the day session. Accordingly, this bill will also be considered at the same time as this draft law on ratification. I should point out that this bill is very important in our dialogue on the visa-free regime with the European Union, because the European Union believes that our cooperation in criminal matters will be much more effective if the Second Additional Protocol is ratified. In this regard, please support me. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u92	Thank you, too. Please sit Valeria Volodymyrna. Deputy Head of the European Integration Committee, Stepan Volodymyrovich Kurpil. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u93	Dear Head! Dear National Deputies! The Committee on European Integration considered at its meeting the draft Ukrainian Law on Ratification of the Second Additional Protocol to the European Convention on Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters and approved the decision to recommend it to the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a whole. In making such a decision, the members of the committee first of all came from the fact that the ratification of the protocol would allow Ukraine, together with other States, to introduce new forms of cooperation between the competent authorities of the parties involved in the investigation of crimes and criminal proceedings in order to provide mutual legal assistance. While appreciating the proposed bill to comply with Ukraine's international legal obligations and compliance with its European Union legislation, I will note that the bill does not only conflict with Ukraine's obligations under the Council of Europe but is also called upon to ensure their implementation. Moreover, in the context of the visa-free dialogue between Ukraine and the European Union, one of the conditions that our European partners put forward before Ukraine is to bring our criminal justice legislation into line with the European Union's legislation. You and I, honourable colleagues, have adopted in this room a number of key laws necessary to accelerate the visa-free regime of Ukraine and the EU, taken an important step towards achieving this long-awaited goal for Ukraine. By adopting this bill, we will not only bring our legislation closer to European norms and standards, but we will also take another necessary step to ensure that our citizens are able to move visa-free countries in Europe. Our committee's decision is in line with the conclusion of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u94	Thank you, too. Dear colleagues, please sign up for this discussion. Please put the names of the national MPs on the board. Viacheslav Kirilenko, faction “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”. The next one will act. Ruslan Knazevich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u95	Dear Head, dear colleagues! I thank Viacheslav Kirilenka for her word. The point is, no one in the room has any doubts about the need for ratification of the Second Additional Protocol. And I'm pretty sure we're going to see today as the result of a pretty decent figure on the board. And there are no special questions in our faction. There's only one question. Now we have in our court in 2011, and Ukraine signed the protocol on its own, with warnings, and we have to give it right here, and what the authorized government said accordingly, in 2001. So I have a question: have we not had an opportunity in 10 years to, let's say, different political battalions still ratify this protocol? Was there simply such a political necessity, there was no wish for someone from somewhere from abroad to return, for example, to Ukraine, whether there was a lack of commitment by any of the countries that entered the European Convention on Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters to grant it accordingly by extradition to the country of destination. Well, these are doubts that may not be true. Although some warnings are of course instilled in them. Together with how I feel about this protocol, it is really necessary, because on the way to implementing the visa-free regime plan in Ukraine, it is one of the key points that the European community is paying attention to. In view of these circumstances, I think they are too important to even exaggerate the warnings that may have been a way of discussing the factions. That is why we have made decisions and will make decisions. To vote in favour and to adopt this bill as a law as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u96	Taras Blackwall, the Reform Group for the Future. Pauline will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u97	Dear Volodymyr Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues of the Ukrainian National Deputies, the parliamentary group "Reforms for the Future" clearly supports the ratification of this agreement – Ukraine's accession to this convention, and we believe that we really need not just vote today, but to demonstrate full unity in this vote. This is the agreement that opens up new prospects for a visa-free membership that opens up opportunities for normal cooperation with other countries of the world in criminal matters and that actually makes us a little bit more civilized. The second point that I want to insist on was the question: Is everything right in the regulatory procedure? From the Committee on Foreign Affairs, I can say that everything is perfectly correct. The thing is, it's not good, of course, that we haven't been in the ratification process for so many years, but the relevant ministries have been working on adequate materials, there are warnings that take away these problems. The second point that was reflected in the position of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration is also not one that can create some kind of obstacle. It's registered in the proper order and it's incorporated into the agenda of the day yesterday, a law that contains changes to other laws of Ukraine that we have to adopt under the International Contracts Act in parallel with this ratification. Is there no mention of what's in the ratification??? The law must somehow reflect this fact, as enshrined in the Law on International Contracts. Therefore, in the form that has been introduced today for the consideration of the Supreme Council, we must vote without any absolute change. Further, I have asked the Supreme Council that we should vote on the corresponding law with amendments to other laws. This will confirm the fulfillment of our obligations.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u98	Yes, Oleg Zarubinsky, please, faction of the People's Party. Then Ivan Kirilenko. Who will act? Terrence, yeah? Victor Terrence.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u99	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Dear colleagues, this is a very important question, it may not be so resonant, but it applies to tens of thousands of our citizens. Maybe not top politicians, not all known, but ordinary citizens, who are objects or subjects of criminal persecution in different countries. But I can't agree with the last one. So if we think about it professionally, let's speak professionally. If article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on International Contracts, and I know this law well, because we have done it in our own time, it tells us that ratification is to take place simultaneously with the adoption of a law that changes according to ratification. It doesn't have to be registered, you know? Three times we've been told, it's already registered in the Supreme Council. Well, what's it registered for? It was to be adopted at the same time today. What does that mean? We were to ratify this agreement and adopt a law that changed the rules of the existing Ukrainian legislation by this treaty of ratification. You know that, Valery Volodymyrically, you know that very well. So you don't have to say it's clean. Does Ukraine need this law? But clearly it's necessary. Once again, I want to say that he touches people who can't protect themselves often. They don't have expensive lawyers, they don't have controlled media. They should be responsible for themselves. That's why we have to take him. And important, and I'd like to support the executives here, so it's important that the warnings are actually made. Not just that, you know, so abstract to show that we're defending our interests. I drew attention to the application to article 13: The temporary transfer of detained persons to the requested party, which took into account the rights of accused and suspected persons in the articles of the Ukrainian CPC. That's right, that's right. Therefore, if you could explain why a law on changes was not introduced on time in accordance with this agreement, it would be better.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u100	Conclusion, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u101	The People's Party faction will support this ratification agreement, it is responsible for and protects the rights of ordinary citizens of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u102	Victor Terrence, "BUT" faction, "Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u103	Victor Terrence, BUT faction, Timoshenko Street. Today our faction will strongly support the Convention on Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters, because Ukraine has to live, Ukraine has to act on European principles, upholding the rule of law and the rule of law, and human rights. For when Ukraine is in the legal field of Europe, it may, in any way, hold back the criminal appetites of today’s power, which in fact solved the war not only by position but in fact solved the war today with its own people, why they are witnesses or prisoners of war, or political prisoners, who are now in prison and who are trying to throw Julius Timoshenko into prison. That says more than opposition. People good, look, today the leaders of the European Union, the leaders of the European People’s Party, which includes Merkel, Berlusconi, Sarkozy, all the world’s leading politicians show what is being done in Ukraine and warn against the political crime, the political war that the ruling regime in Ukraine today has waged. Today, in fact, Ukraine is at a crossroads: either it's a European normal state, or it's a Donetsk, and we have one way out: either it's all Donetsk, or it's the European Union. And so we go to the legal field of Europe, we support the ratification of this convention, we clearly choose the European Union if we want to see Ukraine as a normal democratic state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u104	It's a fraction that hasn't been used. Ivan Popescu, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u105	Thank you. Sand, faction of the Party of the Regions. High-level colleagues, the ratification of this act is the implementation of the internal procedures necessary for the entry into force of the Second Additional Protocol to the European Convention on Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters, and will create the legal basis for Ukraine's participation in new, more effective forms of international cooperation, which will contribute to the adequate opposition to modern forms of transnational crime and to the criminalization of the perpetrators, including the rights of the accused. This will also contribute to the fulfilment of our commitments both to the Council of Europe and to the European Union and will contribute to the liberalisation of the visa-free regime between the European Union and Ukraine. If we solve this question, there will be less speculation that was in the hall this morning. A party of regions, in carrying out their political agenda, will speak for and urge their colleagues to do the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u106	Please, Sergey Lechchenko, Communist faction, Vladimir, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u107	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company, Montenegro. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! Regrettably, this issue is dealt with in a simplified way. We would be very interested right now to be informed about how other countries are doing with Ukraine's own European Convention on Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters, how the First Additional Protocol is being implemented, so that we can then vote for another. But even though we didn't get that information, the faction of the Company of Ukraine will support the prescribed draft of the Ratification Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u108	Ladies and gentlemen, the matter is closed. I am voting on the proposal to approve the Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Second Additional Protocol to the European Convention on Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters. [[Registration number 0207]] Please vote. [[11:42:51]] For 309 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, I am announcing a draft law on the ratification of the Consular Convention between Ukraine and the Syrian Arab Republic. [[Registration number 0208]] I'm voting on a motion to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[11:43:25]] For 223 Decision taken. The rapporteur is the first Deputy Foreign Minister Ruslan Mikhailovich Demchenko. Correspondent is the first deputy head of the Committee in foreign affairs, Taras Viacheslavovich Czarnovil.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u109	Dear Volodymira Mihajlovich, distinguished national MPs, is being brought to your attention by the draft Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Consular Convention between Ukraine and the Syrian Arab Republic. The bill was designed to create the legal basis for this convention, which was signed in Kiev on December 3, 2010. The convention will enhance the effectiveness of our consular institutions in protecting the rights and interests of Ukraine’s natural and legal persons abroad. Compared to the Vienna Convention on Consular Relations of 1963, which has both sides, the Ukrainian-Syrian Consular Convention has the advantage of the following. First, it expands the functions of consular officials. The convention will allow our consular staff to perform their duties more effectively in cases of arrest, detention or other restrictions on the will of Ukrainian citizens. In particular, the competent authorities of Syria are obliged to promptly inform our consular officials of such cases, and in the shortest possible time, to ensure the exercise of the right of consular official to visit or contact our citizen. The Convention also provides for additional privileges and immunities for consular personnel and their families, particularly consular officials, when exercising their powers, they will be granted the same privileges and immunities as diplomatic agents. In summary, it can be argued that the implementation of the provisions of the Consular Convention will create preconditions for increased cooperation in the consular sphere, ensuring a more effective mechanism for protecting the rights and freedoms of Ukrainian citizens. In turn, the Syrian side ratified the convention on March 10, this year. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u110	Thank you, too. Taras Viacheslavovich, please make the decision of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u111	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues of the Ukrainian National Deputies! Given the particular importance of the adoption of this convention right now, the ratification of the corresponding agreement, the Committee on Foreign Affairs considered it in an out-of-order manner. Our position is as follows: It's number one. This convention is really needed today, especially at this time between Ukraine and Syria. Item two. It is fully in line with the international legal standards applicable to such instruments, in fact it is a standard standard document. And the last. We believe that in this case this convention will take on a much greater meaning than double conventions under any other circumstances. I was already approached by some of our fellow MPs in this room, and they asked me whether, morally speaking, it was right now, at a time when Syria was having such events, when there was a particular shooting of peaceful demonstrations and so on, to accept a document with Syria. I would like to point out that right now there is a special need. The convention was signed at the end of last year. And thank God she's not being held for long now because she went straight to ratification. The thing is, apart from the general rights of consular institutions, instead of the general definition of the characteristics of immunity and so forth, there is a very clearly defined separate chapter on the functions of consular institutions. The first paragraph of the 9th article reads as follows: "The Consul official is authorized to defend the rights and interests of the state, which lends its citizens, natural and legal persons, and to assist them and promote them." The articles contained in this Convention are functions related to citizenship, passports and visas, legalizations and notaries, reports of arrests, arrests, imprisonments, and visits, and so forth. We realize that there is no peace in the Middle East today, it will be gone for a long time, but Ukrainian citizens work and stay there. This document carries a profound social and moral factor, and we're helping our citizens who are in.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u112	Finish up, please. Dear colleagues, please sign up for this discussion. Please put the names of the national deputies on the information board. Ruslan Knazevich, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Oleg Zarubinsky will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u113	Dear Head, dear colleagues! In fact, unlike the previous bill, it is urgent to submit this bill to Parliament and the clear reasons for such haste. For when a corresponding international convention was signed in Kiev on December 3, nothing was announced about events that happened in the Middle East, particularly in Syria. And we know what's going on in Syria right now. So we certainly have nowhere to go about this process, we have to hurry with this ratification so that our consular personnel can fully exercise their powers to protect our citizens and legal persons working in Syria, because in what way events will continue, no one knows. We know that, in the past, the European Union has made a laudable decision on Syria for me and has banned the entry into its territory of Syrian high-ranking officials, headed by Bashar al-Assad, in accordance with the President. In what way will these relationships continue to grow or worse? As the situation unfolds, no one can even predict from the well - known European analysts. And so far, every day we see a situation where there are mass protests and killing people on the streets of Syria. Maybe right now, Ukraine has nothing to worry about, but if tomorrow among those, God forbid, any of our citizens will find themselves, no one can guarantee it. Therefore, this convention needs to be ratified immediately. We, our faction, will unanimously support it. And I think it is urgent for our consular staff to approach their duties fully, to perform their duties preventively, without waiting for the thunderstorm to break out and again through the Mediterranean Sea to be sent, do not let God, our ship that will sail for two weeks, two weeks ago, and this can seriously impede the lives of our fellow citizens. Therefore, it is urgent to ratify and act immediately to carry out this ratification. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u114	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Next thing you know, Vladimir Bondarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u115	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. A few theses. First. It's a framework convention. There's nothing new, there's no exclusive. Such conventions on the relationship between consulates and citizens in another country, Ukrainian citizens exist with other countries. That's the first one. One second. I would like to point out that in view of the fact that there is a certain color here for the events that are taking place in Syria, that this convention is completely in no part at all, no paragraph touches the relationship actually between Ukraine and the current Syrian regime. It's very different, and this is my third thesis, and it opens up more possibilities. On this point, colleagues were told to interact with our citizens, our compatriots, who are in Syria. Is there anyone to interact with? There's a lot. In two directions, our diaspora or our community in Syria was formed. These are the workers who worked in Syrian businesses in Soviet times. Many of them, by the way, stayed there, got married or married and so forth. And the second is our former compatriots who married Syrians when they were in the Soviet Union and after they were in independent Ukraine, and studied in the higher Ukrainian universities. That is, the Ukrainian community in Syria is powerful enough. And it's clear that by voting today, we're opening up more opportunities for our consultant, our consuls to interact with them, to take care of their interests, and so on. And the final thesis. Worldwide, there is a tendency to increase the powers and functions of the consulates and consuls in the system of diplomatic interaction. I think that's what Minustu and the MMS can confirm. It's worth a vote for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u116	Thank you. Vladimir Bondarenko, "BUT" faction, "Fatherhood."
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u117	Vladimir Bondarenko, Timoshenko Yuli Block, Reform and Order Party. Of course, consular agreements with any country are useful to our state, because they extend our capabilities, the ability of our citizens to go to one country or stay there, have some reliance on institutions that belong to their Fatherland. So, of course, we will also support the ratification of this Consular Agreement. But I would like to point out that our consulates may need to pay more attention to the state of affairs in that country. Not to be limited to small functions and, in particular, to the situation that has taken place in Syria today, it is characteristic of several states where the government, where the authorities have done their utmost to remain eternal, to rule for 30 or more years, destroying the opposition before it, pushing them to prevent them from lifting their heads. And what Hafez Assad and Bashar Assad did, his son, is an example, a very vivid example of how power, fighting for its future, is actually destroying it. Because if there was an active opposition, if it could ever prove anything to this authority, and the authorities listened to it, then obviously the structure of the political parties would be such a European type, there would be some kind of competition. What should Ukraine today take from the situation in Syria? To take what cannot be done in this way by violating the Constitution and the law, as is being done in Ukraine today, to fight opposition. Because we're going to have our Hafez Assad, someone doesn't even become Bashar, because people in Ukraine are raised a little differently than in Arab countries. I think that the consulate that will be opened in Syria should immediately inform the current government of Ukraine about the inadmissibility of a similar internal policy that is being held today, which does not take into account the interests of not only business circles, medium and small businesses or citizens who work in budgetary institutions. It does not take into account the overall political structure of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u118	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u119	I'd like to support this consular agreement, vote it. This will benefit us, including our authority.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u120	Thank you. Ivan Popescu, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u121	Sand, faction of the Party of the Regions. Masterful colleagues! The purpose of this ratification is to further develop the legal framework of the Ukrainian-Syrian relations, create and ensure the right conditions for the protection of the rights and interests of the two states of legal persons and citizens of Ukraine and Syria. Since the ratification of this convention is in the interests of Ukraine and is extremely relevant and its implementation will contribute to the development of friendly relations between the two countries, it will increase the efficiency of the consular institutions of the treaty states. As well as protecting the interests of our state, of natural and legal persons, and of the main concern of the citizens of Ukraine in Syria, where there is now so much unrest. A party of regions, taking care of the interests of their citizens abroad, will vote in favour. And it urges you to do the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u122	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. Please prepare for the vote a motion for approval of the Ukrainian Code of Ratification of the Consular Convention between Ukraine and the Syrian Arab Republic. [[Registration number 0208]] Please vote. [[11:56:15.]] For 317 The law is passed. Dear colleagues, if you don't mind, before the break we still have a draft Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the State of Israel on Mutual Promotion and Protection of Investment. Papers are processed. I don't see any problems here. Yeah? No objection to put to the vote? I am voting on the proposal for approval, the approval of the Ukrainian Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the State of Israel on Mutual Promotion and Protection of Investment. Please vote. [[11:57:05]] For 315 Decision taken, thank you. Yuri Carmazin. I just didn't hear, I'm sorry, Yuri Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u123	Vladimir Mikhailovich! Yuri Carmazin. I voted in favour of ratifying this convention. Although I'm going to ask you not to take a simple, simplified approach to the laws, it's the Ratification Act and there's an economic situation. I'm here to promote and protect foreign investment. But I firmly oppose the fact that Israel’s security forces work in our territory as they do at home. And I want to say this from this high parliamentary rostrum. I am firmly opposed to the fact that the public services to defend Ukraine’s sovereignty did not respond properly. And you and I, Vladimir Mikhailovich, have not heard a speech from this rostrum, nor from the U.S. Department of Foreign Affairs, that Israel will no longer operate in our territory as at home. That's what I'm talking about, the case of the kidnapping of a Palestinian who has Ukrainian relatives. As a result, I warn against such acts at the next Embassy of Israel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u124	Dear National Deputies! I think in this way that Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin's speech we will form as a parliamentary request to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ukrainian Security Service. Taras Chernobyl, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u125	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! In my name, on behalf of our MP group, I'd like to ask the same thing here, in parallel to that, in our external trust base there are some debts. The point is that, as early as 2009, the Social Convention was signed between Ukraine and Portugal, it is the execution of our debt to those Ukrainians that the Ukrainian State forced to pay in other countries, that is their pension insurance, and so on. Regrettably, it was wrong at Yashchenk’s time, and the documents were prepared. I've just turned to the government, these documents are in the Ministry of Social Policy and Labour, they're preparing them for handing them over to the President for ratification. But the problem is the same with the Ministry of Finance, which, because of the miniature amount, said we couldn't ask for it. The sum of the miniature, that's actually going to be de facto a dozen million dollars. I am very much asking that the government look at this issue and at such small costs, do not show disrespect for Ukrainian citizens and for our externally binding base.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u126	Thank you. Roger that. I also ask that you prepare an appropriate appeal to the Cabinet of Ministers for speeding up the consideration in a positive way. Dear National MPs, there is a break of up to 12 hours for 31 minutes, that is, 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u127	Dear colleagues, please come into the session room. We'll continue the morning session. Let's go to the chapter, "Inclusion in the agenda." The draft Act on Denunciation of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Russian Federation on Cooperation in the Construction of Energy Clouds Nos. 3 and 4 of the Hmelnica AES. [[Registration number 8227]] Thus, the bill’s author is Viacheslav Kirilenko. None. Yes, from the committee, the committee we have, the head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs of Belarus. I can't see. Counselors? Yeah, well, who wants to participate in the discussion? You don't? Then I put to the vote a proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Denunciation Act of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Russian Federation on Cooperation in the Construction of Energy Clouds Nos. 3 and 4 of the AES. [[Bill number 8227]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[12:32:27]] For the five of us. Not supported. The bill is not included. We're considering: the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the Realization of Housing Rights of Guests for the Renewal of the Moratorium. [[Registration number 8446]] This is about putting this issue into the agenda of the day session. The author of the bill is Vlasenko Sergei. I can't see. So, from the Committee on Construction, Urban and Housing and Regional Policy, is there anyone? None. Yes, are they willing to share in the discussion other than Paul’s? Please sign up: two for, two against. Yes, please, Caplienne, the Reform Group for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u128	Dear Adam Ivanovich, please pass the word to Zadir Gennady Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u129	Please, Deputy Bully.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u130	MP for Future Reform, People's Authority, Mikolayushina. The essence of the bill is that the moratorium on the alienation of hostels, in addition to the transfer to the municipal property of the relevant city, village, village councils, continues until January 1, 2015. The draft deletes the text of the part "for 3 years from the date of publication of this law" and is supplemented by the text "by 1 January 2015" from the Final Provisions of this bill. The thing is, really, there's a serious problem, it's about large businesses that have been privatized and their social sphere has remained, then people who worked in these enterprises, or were cut short, but they've started living in these hostels. And then the owners of these companies began to survive these people quietly. These are people who are generally socially vulnerable and, in our view, our MP group, Reforms for the Future, we, the Ukrainian people's deputies, have to do everything we can to protect these people socially. That's why we're going to vote in favour of this bill. The bill is very good, it protects the interests of people who today do not have better living conditions themselves, but they have at least an angle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u131	Please, Eugene Volintz, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u132	Deputies! Respectable voters! The issue is very important at this stage. There are three categories of hostels that have not yet privatized these hostels, which are in power. on the balance sheet of the State. Others are communal property and hostels — the most problematic — those that entered the Charter Fund in due course and were privatized together with the tenants. At this stage, the host often ignores all housing requirements and unwarranted housing tariffs, and in some cases even tries to evict them. That's the law we are. This moratorium will allow people to feel more confident. And now our committee is working to improve the bill 500, which will allow people in the foreseeable future to privatize their apartments, their dormitories, which will reduce the social protests that have already begun in many regions. The Communist faction will vote in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u133	Thank you. Knazevich Ruslan “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u134	I, Adam Ivanovich, ask you to give the word to Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u135	Please, Carmazine's microphone or the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u136	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, “Our Ukraine is the People’s Self-Defense”. I sincerely thank Ruslan Knyazevich. I would like to point out that the bill, which is called "Amendment of Amendments to the Housing Rights Act" for the continuation of the moratorium, has not been introduced from a good life; it has been introduced to protect the most disadvantaged part of the people who are forced to live in hostels. This applies, in particular, to military officials and many law enforcement officials, as well as to employees of companies, organizations that are either bankrupt today, or have entered statutory stockholding or collective ventures. And now there are literally battalions in the courts, because there are attempts to sell these people, actually, along with the dormitories, along with the people, these dormitories. Because of this, it is absolutely correct that the moratorium that was established by the Law on the Realization of Housing Rights of Guests, where for 3 years it has been distributed, is not limited in terms of time. I think it's the right thing to do, and in response to the scientific expertise that wrote that the term should be set and that in the comparative table it should be set by 1 January 2015, I want to say that it's obviously right from the conceptual point of view not to limit that term. When we solve all the problems, when there will be a national housing program for the territorial communities, when we ensure the implementation or implementation of constitutional housing regulations for every Ukrainian citizen, then we will take this moratorium and take it down. Obviously, this bill needs to be supported both in the first reading and in general, because there's really nothing more to discuss here. Thank you for your attention and for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u137	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich, but we need to get it into the agenda first. Please, Pavlovsky, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u138	Andrey Pavlovski, "The House of Yulia Timoshenko" is "The Fatherland". Dear compatriots, in order to protect the housing rights of the residents of the hostels, to prevent them from being evicted from occupied accommodations, and to prevent the alienation of the hostels that were built at the expense of the state, the faction of the Yulia Timoshenko – "The Fatherland" proposes to continue the moratorium on the alienation of the hostels by 1 January 2015. And I ask the pro-dominant factions of the majority to support this social bill, support people socially, not distract them from the deterioration of life through provocations with flags, with the arrests of opposition leaders. I think it's just practical things that you can show that you're most interested in. So I would like to vote in favour of the inclusion of this social-important law.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u139	Question completed. I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the daily session of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Housing Rights Act on the continuation of the moratorium. Please vote. [[12:40:43]] For-73 By factions, please: The Party of Regions – 1, "BUT" – "Fathership" – 11, "Our Ukraine" – 17, communists – 25, "Reforms" – 15, "The People's Party" – didn't vote, non-fractional – 4. We are discussing the inclusion in the agenda of a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster, registration number 8453, author of the Bondarev MP bill. [[on enhancing the effectiveness and guarantees of social protection]] None. From the committee head of the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Consequences of the Chernobyl Disaster, Anatoly Ivanovich Seminoga, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u140	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Honorary colleagues, the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Ukraine's Law on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster, registration number 8453, introduced by the Ukrainian National Deputy Bondarem, foresees an increase in the government-compensated portion of the cost of food provided by citizens of the first and second categories who have suffered as a result of the Chernobyl disaster, an increase in financial assistance to citizens living in radioactive pollution areas due to restrictions on local food and personal support agriculture, and the determination of the guaranteed minimum amount of such compensation. The Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster is planning to consider this bill at today's meeting, and I would like to address you with this request. Dear colleagues, we recently celebrated the 25th anniversary of the Chernobyl disaster, a state plan of action, approved by the President, we have implemented this plan of action. We've managed to raise some funds to deal with the problems that are at the Chernobyl nuclear station, but unfortunately our citizens have remained alone with the problems that Chernobyl has caused. I would like to remind you once again that the Chernobyl disaster has been stopped at the cost of hundreds of lives of our citizens who have been able to stop this problem. Once again, we are convinced that, as a minimum, we national deputies should vote in favour of including this law in the daytime order and adopt it in the first reading, thus in any way being able to compensate for the loss of health to those citizens who are now living in the polluted areas and who are liquidators of the Chernobyl accident. Thank you for your attention, and please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u141	Thank you, Anatoly Ivanovich. Are there those who are willing to share in the discussion? Please sign up. Please, Sergey Gordienko, the Communist faction. Behind him is Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u142	Sergei Gordijenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company, Poltavščina. Of course, the faction of the Ukrainian Company will vote in favour of the inclusion of the bill in the order of the day. I would like to point out that the further we go into history, the more problems it brings to people, the ones that have saved mankind from the nuclear threat. And today there's this problem, problem number one. That's what's not being implemented is the current legislation on social benefits, pension payments for the disabled. And they have to go to the courts, stand up and try the state for their rights. It's a disgrace. Because one day a year they are celebrated and thanked, and 364 days forget about this category of people who saved us from the threat of a raging atom. Next. People come here, but the Pension Boards then make appeals to higher courts, and they're court-martialed, and then they get to the level of the Kyiv courts. But the State Budget does not provide for the payment of what these people will be sentenced to in court. That's a huge problem. Next. The number one threat to the Chernobyl population is that there is a bill for the enforcement of court decisions 7562, which is supposed to take most of the benefits to the Chernobyls that there are. So we vote for it, we make every effort to restore and protect the rights of the Chernobylites and protect them.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u143	Thank you. Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Prepare Bondarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u144	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense." Dear National Deputies! Every day, in fact, we should thank those who protected us from the Chernobyl disaster. Every day, as we stand up and thank the Lord, we must thank them. And I'm sorry that how many people have died, and even today we haven't included in the agenda to discuss Bill 8227 -- on the denunciation of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Russian Federation on the Construction of Energy Clouds Nos. 3 and 4 of the AES. And that's what we did when in no EU country was any nuclear reactor put into operation, except for that Romanian one that had been built for 24 years. I'm sorry that we keep making people live on this subject, which is why the bill is extremely relevant and requires support. He needs support in view of what is clearly written there when he is replaced by 50 percent by 75 percent and 25 by 50. Obviously, the situation that has taken place with respect to the rights of the Chernobylites is something that needs to be discussed immediately, and I'm going to refer to the leadership of the Supreme Council, to the leadership of the committee, because it doesn't normally happen when the first-, second-, second-, third-, third-, third-, third-, third-, third-, third-, third-, third-, third-, third-, third-, third-, third-party, first-, second-, first-, third-, third-, third-, third-, third-, third-, third-, third-, third-, third-, third-, third-, third-, third-, third-, third-, third-party, third-party, third-, third-party, third-party, third-party, third-party, third-party, third-party, third-party, third-party, third-party, third-, third-party, third-party, third-, third-party, third-party, third-party, third-party, third-party, third-party, third-, third-party, third-, third-, third-, third-, third-, third-, third-, third-party, third-, third-, third-party, third-, third-party, third-party, third-party, third-party, third-party, third-party, third-party, third-party, third-party, third-party, third-party, It's not normal, it's invalids, I repeat, the first group. That's why this bill has to be adopted, I'm in. But I'm also asking you to look at this issue a lot wider, and I'm addressing the board of directors and the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u145	Thank you. Please, Vladimir Bondarenko, BEUT faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u146	Vladimir Bondarenko, Timoshenko Yuli Block, Reform and Order Party. Of course, all projects related to the Chernobyl disaster should be considered, but not without discussion as recently adopted. Because we're such an aneurysm, I'd say, we're dividing the political component, we're talking a lot about it, and we're losing sight of those citizens who are still alive. Every day, as I pass through the Sanhedrin, I see new and new plates appearing on the streets of Chernobyl near the obelisk, tens and hundreds of thousands of new names appearing there, those who have died. Sadly, though, the new authority that tells us today that it has done much in a social way, always comes from these issues, hides itself. For example, yesterday instead of voting on a law that would protect the disabled and the groups, it was simply rejected. Retirement laws are rejected, legislation that applies to children of many children is rejected, and much more is rejected. Why did you have to lie when you went to the polls, that you would solve all of these questions almost a day after the election? To this day, however, no social steps have been taken to protect Ukrainian citizens. On the contrary, there is a terrible attack on all social rights, on the economic rights of citizens, and there is a tremendous increase. In order to distract society, different red flags are being invented, different political events are being developed, including the beginning of repression against those who are speaking the truth today, who are protecting people. This is done consciously solely for one purpose: to divert society's attention from the failed policies of the new government, which will not be a failure, because they don't use any supply of opposition, no healthy proposals, but they think it depends on the hands of one of the leaders here. No, that hand hasn't been moving around for a long time. So draw conclusions, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u147	Please have the author of the bill. Please, Constantine Bondarev, two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u148	National MP Bondarev Constantine Anatoliyovich, Faction "BUT" – "Fatherland". Indeed, there is a proposal to move from political repression to helping socially affected citizens. And it's my bill that directs all of our movements in order to. Listen, people today get: there are categories -- the bracelet 60, 2.10 or 2 bracelets 60 copies a month to get extra food because they were affected by this catastrophe. Number 1 bracelet 60 — what can be bought at these costs? Today, there are more than 500,000 people in the Kyiv region. People have a great deal to offer, and they really need help, to those who have suffered. Why did this come about? Because in 1991 the law was passed. But after that, you remember, they were still carbs. The recalculations have led us to see a certain frost today: 2 bracelets cost a subway ticket, and 60 people receive a month’s allowance for food. I offered to raise and, in fact, secure a certain percentage of the minimum wage -- 75, 50 and 25 percent, respectively. So people are going to get 235 dollars a month, 530 and 750, respectively. At this cost, you can buy something. I'm asking you, let's go meet people. I ask you to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u149	Yes, the discussion is over. I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster. [[on enhancing the effectiveness and guarantees of social protection]] [[Registration number 8453]] Please vote. [[12:53:12]] For 121 The question is not included. The factions. Region Party 3, BUT 51, Our Ukraine 19, Communists 25, Reforms 0, People's Party 19, non-fractional-4. There's no such thing as motive. Dear colleagues, we now have to consider two bills to amend the Ukrainian Education Act. [[8457 and 8458]] Author of their Pavlovsky. So let's unify them, give him four minutes to report two bills. We'll both discuss it and then we'll make a decision. Please consider the inclusion in the agenda of the Education Act. [[Registration numbers 8457, 8458]] Please, the subject of the legislator’s initiative, Collegiate Pavlovsky. Please take four minutes of both bills.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u150	Andrey Pavlowski, Timoshenko's Yulia Block - Fatherland. Dear fellow countrymen, these are important social laws. The amendments to the Education Act are aimed at strengthening and restoring guarantees of social protection for teachers and educators who are now experiencing a continuous deterioration in their lives. We see that they do not accept it, and we are witnessing mass action by teachers in the first place. And they saw a large share, more than 10,000 teachers, under the Cabinet of Ministers, who demanded an elementary increase in their wages, the restoration of their allowances, and at least some basic decent life. And to support our Ukrainian teachers, a bill is proposed by the opposition faction of Fatherland, which foresees an increase in seniority allowances per month in the percentage of the salary per month, depending on the pedagogical period: if more than 3 years, 20 per cent of the allowance; more than 10 years, 30 per cent of the salary allowance; if more than 20 years of pedagogical training, 50 per cent of the salary. It is also suggested that help be given to teachers in the size of their official salary. Provide educational workers with annual material assistance at a cost of two subsistence minimums. Provide teachers who work in rural areas, as well as retired teachers who stay and work, and live in rural areas, provide them with free use of heating and lighting dwellings in order as defined by the Cabinet of Ministers. The next bill, designed to increase the amount of pedagogical pensions, is aimed at this. That those pitiful pensions in 700-800 bracelets that a teacher gets after 30-40 years of hard work, that's just abuse of the human dignity of teachers. Hence, it is proposed that most parties, including Viktor Yanukovic, fulfill their preelection promises in order to compare teachers to government officials. Well, if you don't compare it, at least at the level of retirement, you can predict 80 percent of their last salary to give them a pension just like that of government officials. If you do not want to be a civil servant, at least compare those in pensions. And I want to mark the next one. That teachers should be supported because they depend on our country’s future. They raise and provide fundamental knowledge to our future generation of our citizens. It is a sacred matter, and these people must be supported in a critical hour of economic crisis. At the moment, authorities are doing everything they can to divert attention from social degradation. And it does the trick, by introducing provocations with flags, by distracting people from discussing which of the leaders of today's opposition have been arrested, who for how many years they want to throw away. And that's what we see on the ground that we've been holding Yuri Lucenka for six months trying to arrest Julia Timoshenko. I mean, power, first of all, help people, not distract them.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u151	Yeah, but why didn't that government give you those benefits that you're asking for right now? From the committee, would you please? None. Yeah, then we'll sign up for the performance. Yes, please, Davemuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u152	Please pass the word to Mikola Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u153	Please, Mikola Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u154	Dear colleagues, perhaps it is not a coincidence that the two fundamentally important bills relating to the education system are being considered today because today is the International Day for the Protection of Children. And I wanted to say hello to the children on your behalf and the teachers and the teachers and the parents and, in fact, the children themselves. Because the protection of their rights, both socio-economic and human, is extremely important today. Parliament should remember that. When it comes to two bills, I focus on the first bill, because it's very important. It's about the topic we're talking about, actually, as of March of this year. In March, as you know, tens of thousands of teachers took part in a protest to ensure the minimum promises that the current authorities have made to teachers and teachers. Actually, it is part of a bill that was registered by a colleague of Paul’s, Sokka, Bolura. What did the government do? He went out to them or, more specifically, he was afraid to go to them as the minister of education, and it was already his prime minister who mixed up the application, and it was said that the 20% allowance would be for teachers from April 1. Then they said there's no money, it's September 1st. After that, the minister said that this is a terrible money, 367 million 200,000, once again, 367 million 200,000 people watching the media can compare how much every day they spend on demand. So now it's even threatened to raise 20 percent of this from September 1st. Because we haven't made any changes to the budget yet and we don't know when it's going to be done. So I think that today, because the Ministry of Education doesn't keep its promises, the government doesn't, we have to do it. It's a paradox in general. I read that recently Minister of Education Dmitri Tobacco, I call him the leader of the Russian party in the Ukrainian government, went to Moscow and reported on how he runs Ukrainian schools. It seems to me that the President has delegated it to protect teachers, students, students, Ukraine, not to ruse Ukraine. And I didn't report it in Moscow, in the Kremlin for Russian politics. So we need to support the bill, support the teachers, and support the Ukrainian school.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u155	Please, Mikhailo Chechetov. It's Karmazin. Jaroslav Suhi, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u156	Dear colleagues! I must regret to note that the powerful potential, the scientific potential of opposition, the powerful potential of the life experience of opposition in such legislative acts is openly blocked. Too bad. I'm being honest about this. Just recently, he was in opposition. It is blocked by demagogism and cynical populism. Do you understand? The consideration of social orientation bills in the sessional room looks like an act of common sense a long time ago. And it's like a cynical taste of our troubles and troubles. Well, Vladimir Dmitrovich, you said it right. The offer of opposition is rejected. Please tell me how this proposal can be used. Don't you know that most of these novels you're talking about are the costs of the local budget? Call me donors to the Ukraine area? Every year, they're getting smaller. It's a distraction from urban farming, away from roads. It's distracting money from building new gardens, from social housing, and so forth. Is this the problem of education needed to be resolved? Of course you do. Show me the sources. You remember when we asked you to give an antichrist program. What did we want? What legislative proposals should we support? We take responsibility together, we don't do anything about it. Well, as much as you can get around that moral right: I said -- I didn't, I promised -- I didn't do it, and I didn't. It will not make it easier for people to become better. And one more thing. You stop making people laugh with your political reprisals. Political repression is a reprisal for political activity. This is about specific criminal offences, and let us make the case to the end. I don't like it or I don't like it. We used to come out here to get the Kolesniks out, get out of court, make excuses. She's not going to let her go, is she the dog that got her locked up in the room or on the balcony? Think about what, too.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u157	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u158	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Ladies and gentlemen, let's think about what kind of projects we're looking at right now. Of course, whether we need to support him or not, we are told that someone needs to be excused. The Constitution has been in place since 1996, and you have a minister of justice who claims that you do not have to comply with the jury court requirement. Your Honor, what are you talking about?Oh, my God! Come down from heaven and here, please answer for your actions or inactivity. So, about education. As for education, Your Honor, you keep saying that you can't raise a salary to a teacher. Even today, on the day of child protection, you cannot protect a teacher. And today there was the attorney general's first deputy, and he found a criminal. But what is selective justice? Why are you being told that you are involved in selective justice? Because when 150 million dollars, which is 1 billion 200 million dollars, once the Black Mornaphtogas was paid top dollar, top dollar, that is, stolen. So somehow neither Azarov nor his minister Boyko nor the officials of BlackMornaphtegas. This is exactly the kind of money that needs to be returned here to give the teachers this billion 200 million, and Azarov and Boyko to substitute for Lucenka, because its 40,000 and a billion 200 million are somehow no longer compatible. And let's put it this way, Adam Ivanovich, this is an official statement to the Attorney General's Office, and I ask you to correct the criminal offence, the arrest under the watch of Azarov and Boyko, and immediately.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u159	Please, Bully, one minute. Then Zibenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u160	Thank you very much, Adam Ivanovich. Deputy Zadirko, Mikolayevščina, People's Authority Party, Reform Group for the Future. Dear colleagues, as a person who adheres to the ideological preferences of European social-democratic views, I will vote in favour of this bill. But I understand that this bill is imperfect. And I, speaking to my colleague, who also has European social-democratic values, would still ask that such laws be written in a more qualitative manner and that they be treated more responsibly. But what I want to say is that the problem that my colleague raises is so correct today is so relevant, because we know that when summer vacations begin, we know that teachers have completed their school year, but the problems that teachers go on vacation with today are actually very serious: they don't have enough money, teachers get a meager salary. That's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u161	Please, Cibenko, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u162	Thank you. Communist faction, Peter Cibenko. Honorary colleagues, citizens of Ukraine, the faction of the Ukrainian Company, certainly going to be consistent, will support both of these draft laws, I mean both with regard to state science and teaching staff, and with regard to solving the problem of the teacher's pension. First of all, because we're doing this absolutely consistently, secondly, because a member of our faction and a member of the National Science and Education Committee, Catherine Semenovna Samylik, has repeatedly passed the relevant bill, the truth is different from us, and we, I stress once again, will vote, despite being introduced by another political force, those of our colleagues who are now introducing this draft then did not vote for this bill. So they probably wouldn't have prices if they were consistent and then supported this project, and it would have been solved, this problem, long ago. But nevertheless, the problem needs a solution, and so the faction of the Ukrainian Company will vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u163	Question completed. Your last name wasn't called Volodymyr, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. It wasn't your last name. Yes, please, Bondarenko, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u164	As soon as I was accused of not making the money of the local budgets right, there were few of them. So there are really few, because today's authorities have shown that local budgets only receive 27 percent of the general government budget, and before that proportion was different. Where can I get the money? For example, take from Livella 4 billion that she didn't pay to the state. You didn't have to cancel the debt of private energy companies today, $5 billion, and you did it recently. Stop playing the Euro on an unalterable basis, where tens of billions of them go apart. Then there'll be money for teachers, there'll be money for the Chernobyls, where you just spit in your face, without giving any votes for that law, and so on. So you don't have to say that there's no money, they're, they're godlessly stealing from your supporters, the one party that's sitting in business today, the 27 billionaires who've doubled their assets this year, those who're sending money to Cyprus, that's money.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u165	Question completed. I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the draft Act on Amendments to the Education Act of Ukraine. [[on State guarantees for teaching and teaching staff]] [[Registration number 8457]] [[13:10:34]] For 109 Not supported. The factions. Region Party 3, BUT 48, "Our Ukraine" 20, communists 25, "Reforms". – 10, the People's Party – did not vote, non-faction – 3. There is a vote on the proposal to include the draft Education Act in the agenda of the day session. [[on the increase of pension provision for pedagogical workers]] [[Registration number 8458]] Please vote. [[13:11:19]] For-94 Not supported. The factions. Region Party 1, BUT 46, "Our Ukraine" 17, communists 21, the "Reforms" Group. – 6, The People's Party – did not vote, non-fractional – 3. Consideration is being given to the inclusion in the agenda of the bill on the introduction of a moratorium on the closure and retraining of health facilities. [[Registration number 8431]] The author of the legislative initiative is Prokopchuk, Pavlovski and many others. Who will be the authors? A yakkopchuk? Please. And prepare for the bachelor committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u166	Honorable fellow MPs, medical personnel, Ukrainian citizens! In the current Constitution, man, his life, health, dignity, integrity, and security were recognized by the State as the highest social value. Article 49 of the Basic Law of Ukraine guaranteed everyone in the country the right to life protection, medical care, and medical insurance. The same article on the subject. The State was obliged to create conditions for effective and accessible health care for all citizens. In doing so, the Constitution of Ukraine not only explicitly prohibited the reduction of the existing network of public health institutions but also obliged the State to promote development. Instead, what is happening today is a form of reform: a total, slow downsizing of medical facilities throughout Ukraine. In fact, yesterday people from the Volodimirecki district call, cry, and come to the two hospitals. There is still a struggle against the closure of the Dubenski oncospenseer. This is due to an increase of 7 percent in the number of oncosa in Plains alone this year. Where are all the facilities that we've had to fight TB? They're just gone, they're gone. And in Ukraine today, it's a pandemic. How can we talk about the reform system in general today, when, for example, the reform system and what's going on in three areas, it's that there's going to be more "fast help" there today, and the shoulder is so-called multiplicity, and sometimes it just doesn't get there. In general, there is an unprecedented closure of medical facilities in all areas of Ukraine, especially in rural areas. And this is where we're talking about political repres.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u167	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u168	When we talk about political repression against leaders, it's one thing. Do not commit genocide against the Ukrainian people! Do not commit this genocide! And let's support this bill. We'll put a moratorium on five years, deal with the situation, give good medical care to all people, set up a moratorium, and then we'll reform. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u169	From the committee. None. Please sign up for the discussion. Please, Cibenko, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u170	Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! Peter Cibenko, Ukrainian Company faction, head of the Ukrainian Veterans Council. You know, I want to look at this problem because of the prism of only one category of Ukrainian citizens, namely veterans. With this huge number of problems that are now present in the older generation of our nation, the number one problem is certainly the problem of health care in all its multiplicity: availability of health care, quality of medical care, price of medicine, availability of a network of medical facilities, and so forth. I want to say that in the vast number of problems in the older generation, accessibility and quality of medical care is the biggest problem. Realizing this, the organization of Ukrainian veterans last year initiated a joint plenary of the Ukrainian veteran organization, along with a college of the Ministry of Health. We gathered at the general premises of the Ministry of Health, representatives of veteran organizations, and had a very serious discussion on this issue. Balanced decisions have been made that good decisions have been made to address a range of health - related problems. I very much hope that these decisions will be largely implemented and create a slightly different foundation, a slightly different basis for addressing these problems in Ukraine. So the faction of the Ukrainian Company will support this bill because we understand that the health problem in general for the population of Ukraine, and especially for the veterans, is a very pressing problem and needs to be addressed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u171	Sergey Shevchuk, the BUT faction, behind him, Carmazin is handing over Karpuku.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u172	Dear colleagues, there are obviously national MPs in this room who adopted the Constitution in the year 96 and who may recall that 49 articles were not particularly debated. At the suggestion of the left factions, socialists accepted this editorial, where there are two positions that medical care free of charge and a second that the network of these institutions cannot be reduced. Thus, such a reform of health care, which is now being carried out by the active authorities, is being introduced to violate this legal norm of the Constitution in order to reduce the network of health institutions in Ukraine. Under the form of reform, under the optimisation, practical action on the ground has long been carried out. I want to remind those local authorities that they will be responsible for violating the Constitution personally because they will make such a decision to shut down medical institutions. Of course, health care needs to be reformed, but respected colleagues from most, if you are serious about doing so, let us approach the change of the Constitution, such as the 49 articles. There's a lot of mechanisms to optimize it, but not the way it's done right now: a brutal violation of an article of the Constitution and the closure of medical institutions. The faction “The Yulia Block of Timoshenko without hesitation will support the bill. He really is. There is a need to introduce a moratorium on hospital closures, clinics, outpatients, FAPs, as the health of the people will not improve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u173	Vladimir Karpuk, "Our Ukraine" faction, followed by Jaroslav Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u174	Vladimir Karpuk, "Our Ukraine". Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! Article 49 of the Constitution makes it clear that medical care is provided free of charge in public and municipal institutions. The existing network of these facilities cannot be reduced. By the way, the author of this important amendment to the 49th article is Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin, and I thank him for the opportunity to speak. Today, so-called optimisation means the slow closure of treatment facilities, especially in rural areas. And the Ministry of Health in recent years, from the Health Committee initiative, has taken stock of all medical facilities. We understand that retraining of many district hospitals, reducing the number of hospital and district hospitals does not lead to any improvement, but rather to a deterioration in health care. And by the way, over the last two years, we've adopted a number of legislative acts, including social protection for military personnel, social protection for interior workers, where we haven't allowed legislative cuts in health facilities in this particular system. At the same time, I want to highlight one problem that needs to be addressed. Because there are now one and a half ministries and departments of prevention and prevention. For example, water transport, an oil complex, has long been practically privatized. But a separate budget line is allocated 62 million dollars for the provision of these treatment facilities. Of course, these issues need to be addressed. And just putting in a moratorium, maybe on the second reading, it's going to have to be worked out. But our faction will support this bill in the agenda. And I think it's during the consideration.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u175	Jaroslav Suhi, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u176	Dear colleagues, I'll tell you the main thing right away. I will vote in favour of this bill. He needs to be supported. I am addressing the national deputies of Ukraine as majors. To such as me, who invested in the development of the field and obstetric points, their own funds. Here is Igor Fedorovich Sharov, the leader of my faction "The Hard Ukraine". He and I opened an updated physiotherapy complex in Zaporozhye, an asthma specialist, at the base of the eighth hospital. For the city of Zaporozhye this is an extremely important and acute problem, there is an allergic doctor who can confirm it. In the village where I was born and raised, the Feldscher-Ackshering Point was repaired because of the costs that I and you and I had borne. That's why I'm going to be absolutely against the closure of the country's field and obstetric points. And the situation is like this. Just no politics, but calm down. If this optimization is that a person from a village, for example in the Winnitsk region, has to travel 24 kilometers to Tivrov, to a district center, I guarantee you he won't come or just spit and don't go. The doctors who are here know that the primary approach is the main one. The first time a 40-year-old man was stuck behind his chest, drinking water or not drinking water, there was no cardiogram for anyone, the district hospital was closed. Guys, buses don't go! And if they do, you can't get there on foot. So, of course, I'm in charge of this bill, so I don't need to be apologetic. I will vote in favour of this bill. But if it doesn't pass, I want to talk to the author, we have Bill 8533 -- this is the government bill on the experiment in three areas. Please, we need all the opposition with you, and most people will use it to keep medical services comfortable for people, not for budget deficits. Where's the applause?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u177	Question completed. I am voting on the proposal to include Bill 8431 in the agenda of the day – the introduction of a moratorium on the closure and retraining of health institutions. Please vote. [[13:24:04]] For-127 The offer is not supported. The factions. Region Party 11, BUT 49, Our Ukraine 22, Communists 25, Reforms 18, The People's Party did not vote, non-fractional 2. Dear colleagues! Now we need to consider two bills on the inclusion in the agenda of what has to do with the jury in Ukraine. The author of the legislative initiative, colleague Moskal, suggests that they be considered together. There is no full program, there is a reduced procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u178	By full procedure!
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u179	I repeat, look in the Rules: integration into the agenda takes place only under a reduced procedure. We are discussing the inclusion in the agenda of draft laws 8253 and 8254 concerning the jury in Ukraine. The subject of the legislative initiative to present these bills to Moskal is given four minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u180	Ladies and gentlemen, if I speak a little quietly, let's wake up because the law is very important. Dear TV audiences and audiences watching the broadcast today. I want to start with an interview with Justice Minister Alexander Lavrinovich of Public People about the impossibility of establishing a jury institute in Ukraine. And it was a shock to me personally. It is hard to believe that the minister of justice could have resorted to saying that jury courts are only in a small number of countries with a sufficiently high level of culture. It's premature for our society, because the jury's court is not just about the right, it's about the emotion. So by the logic of the minister of justice, the Ukrainian people are not a cultural nation at all. As for the phrase that jury courts are in a small number of countries, this is not at all true. In some lands, such courts have a different name. For example, in Germany, the chiefs, in France, the Asian court, in Estonia, there are the institutions of the national courts that are elected, in Italy, the most resonant criminal offences are dealt with by 94 jury courts, and appeals are heard by 34 jury courts. In the Netherlands, representatives of the public have been involved in justice through the courts of control, in Austria a court of chiefs is in place, and in Japan the jury court has been in effect and has been reinstated since 2009. The most resonant and difficult cases are handled by the court for the participation of six jurors, randomly chosen from among the electorate and three professional judges. Such examples can be cited in countless ways. Thus, Mr. Lavrinovich’s claim that jury courts operate only in a few countries is a lie and a lie. According to U.S. legislation, which Ukrainian lawyers cite as an example for imitation, the jury body in the trial participates in the "look and listen" principle. There's no emotion in the jury court that the justice minister points to, and there can't be. Their business is to watch, listen and make a verdict: guilty or not guilty. If, in the words of Lavrinovich in Ukraine, there is such a low level of culture that is part of legal culture, then where do we select judges, is it from other citizens? Judges have the same level of general legal culture as society. That's why they need to be strengthened by a jury. But the main point is that Mr. Lavrinović's statement directly contradicts the Constitution of Ukraine, while constitutional rights and freedoms are guaranteed and cannot be repealed, but the minister did not say. Thus, according to article 129 of the Constitution, Ukraine’s judiciary is conducted by a judge alone, by a college of judges, or by a jury. Our Constitution was adopted in 1976. If, for 35 years, the Supreme Council has failed to pass a jury law, and the President, who is the guarantor of the Constitution of Rights and Freedoms, has not passed an appropriate bill as an urgent matter for Parliament's consideration, there should be a lack of legal culture here in Parliament and in the President's Administration, not where he says - among the population - Mr. Lavrinovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u181	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u182	We are already preparing a lawsuit before the administrative court of Ukraine regarding the inactivity of the Supreme Council, the President of Ukraine, who is obliged and obliged to do certain things. It should be urgent, if my bill, honourable MPs, does not suit you, to bring another to the jury's trial immediately. is urgent. And the people's deputies have to look at this bill. Because every Ukrainian citizen has an undeniable right to demand, on the basis of the Constitution, that his case be tried by the jury itself. If the defendant Lucenka has been brought before the court about his case by a jury, pursuant to article 8 of the Constitution of Ukraine, an appeal to a court to protect the constitutional rights and freedoms of a person and a citizen is guaranteed directly and on the basis of the Constitution. Therefore, today the Pecher Court is not in a position to deal with the matter, and it is under an obligation to refer it to the Supreme Court.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u183	Thank you, Hennady Hennadiovich. Unfortunately, we can't give judgment. Yes, have a seat, please. We can speak, but nothing will change because they are independent and independent. From the committee. The Justice Committee, no informants? Yes, then please sign up for the discussion, let's talk, let's write it down. Yes, Yuri Prokopchuk, please, the BEUT faction. Prepare Volodymyr Lechchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u184	Yuri Prokopchuk, "BUT - "Fatherhood", Equality. Honorable Fellows, Honorable Ukrainian People! Those political repressions that are being produced in Ukraine today are also the result of the failure to comply with the basic standards of the Basic Law, which is the Constitution of Ukraine. Article 124 of the Constitution clearly and directly sets out and obliges and sets the standard. I read it, "The people are directly involved in the execution of justice through national jury and jury." At first, this room is where the National Parliamentary Institute is mutilated. It's democracy, freedom of speech and how we love all people. Now, under any circumstances, no one wants to comply with the direct norm of the Constitution and to uphold the law passed by Mr. Moskal. What prevents this? There's no money -- they'll say -- to form. So, I have another document where the Ministry of Defense, signed by Mr. Ježel and Czerpick, sold 70,000 bracelets of Ukrainian tanks, where the rifle of the SVD, which you know how much it costs, sold 1,700 dollars, for 90 dollars. It's, by the way, social programs and teachers and doctors and everything. Let us come to the Constitution. At least let's stick to something. And only then will Ukraine be a real rule of law. Everyone declares that. Let's do this. And, no, political repression! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u185	Glacier Vladimir, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u186	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company, Montenegro. The author’s offer is usually very interesting. But what is it called? Opposition between representatives of the bourgeois clans in Parliament For some reason, the author had not made such proposals before. During Soviet times, the courts were national and thus just. They were protecting a man of work. For 20 years now, the courts have become such that they serve only the authorities. The authorities assign them, release them, change them, and pay them. Thus, the faction of the Ukrainian Company has always made and made a proposal: Judges must be elected nationally. Then they will protect the interests of the common people. We did not vote, the faction of the Company of Ukraine, as opposed to the national jury in the trials. We are implementing the Constitution of Ukraine. But no matter what I say, this faction of the Ukrainian Company will vote in favour of the inclusion of the daily bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u187	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u188	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Dear Adam Ivanovich, we have now come together with two questions, because 7253 and 8254, although these are different questions, and Ruslan Knazevich, I know, has an opinion, although it is correct. There's only one thing I'd like to focus on. I want to refer to the fact that the Constitution provides for the jury not just in one article, but it foresees it in 124th in the form that the people are directly involved in the execution of justice through the national jury and the jury. It also points out in article 127, where professional judges and judges are executed in certain cases. It also predicts this in the 129th, where the case law is being carried out. That's why I want to say, Your Honor, the fact that we haven't done it since 1996 doesn't mean that we don't have to stick to the Constitution. That's the first one. And the second. Unfortunately, there is no authorized government in the European Court of Human Rights. Well, you do realize that in the presence of such a record in the Constitution, in several of its articles, any case of any citizen, or Lucenka, or Timoshenko, or other victims of the political repression of modern times in the European Court of Justice will be won. As a result, I would like to examine the laws. The jury bill, filed by Moskal and Vlasenko, is a very serious bill prepared to be adopted in the first reading, even though there are nine articles. The draft law, which amends the Criminal Procedure Code, introduces a new chapter 23. "The jury's conduct." I thank both Mr. Moskal and Vlasenko for making these projects, and I hope that we will vote for the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u189	Thank you. Yes, the discussion is over. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, Knazevitch was mentioned in a positive rather than negative way, so please do not provoke. Yes, from the faction of Verni Dubov, 1 minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u190	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies. However, in short, the institutions of the national jury and the jury still don't justify themselves. It's really a judgment of emotion, no matter what we say, not the courts of reason and law. Italian researchers say that the jury cries when a lawyer tells of the tears and sufferings of a wife and young children of a defendant whom he has never had. Even with the Soviet authorities, there may have been a time when the national jury could have been brought to justice. But now you're going to have to talk to the judges. This feat must be done in order for them to be invited into court to actually participate in the administration of justice. A professional court must be strengthened! Where you need one judge, where you need three, where you need five. But the future is a professional court. I propose to reject these bills. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u191	I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the daily Bill 8253 on the jury court in Ukraine. I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:38:50]] For 101 The factions. Region Party – 1, BUT – 51, Our Ukraine – 21. Well, 50 of them won't comply with the Constitution, because they have 105. 50 from Our Ukraine, because you're almost 70, they don't want to follow the Constitution either. The Communists all want to do -25, the reforms - did not vote, the People's Party - 1, the non-fractional - 2. I would like to vote on the inclusion in the agenda of the Draft Law on Amendments to the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine and the Law on the Judicial and Status of Judges on the Jury Court. [[Registration number 8254]] [[13:39:49]] Z-85 Not supported. We are looking at the draft Law, more faithfully, sorry, we are discussing the inclusion in the agenda of the daily draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine regarding the disclosure of access to the information of the Single State Register of Legal Persons and of natural persons who are entrepreneurs. [[Registration number 8373]] The author of the bill is Royal. Please, Natalia Yuriovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u192	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! We propose to your attention a draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the opening of access to information from the Single Register of Legal Persons and Personal Entrepreneurs. The purpose of this bill is to resume common access to the Single State Register. In February, for totally unclear reasons, which we can only assume, general access to the Single State Register through the Internet was cancelled. People now cannot have open access to information about an enterprise such as its name, location, whether it has been destroyed and whether it is in bankruptcy. This has, of course, immediately and negatively affected the overall business climate in the country and the reliability of property and business traffic in entrepreneurship. This contributes to additional raiding and manipulation of property and property of medium and small businesses. We suggest. First. Cancel the publication of a specialized, print media that publishes information from the Single State Register. This paper, which comes out by volume, does not do anything at all, so it only takes up additional funds and carries outdated data. Second. Resume open and 24-hour access to the Single State Register through the Internet. Third. Eliminate the special access of judges to the State registry, even if it will be open 24 hours a day for all those who wish. Fourth. To establish that there is only one original document of the founding documents and that copy is kept with the State registry. Fifth. To specify that a list of persons who may act on behalf of a legal and natural person and specify the information to be entered in the register so that the list can be opened. This will provide a tool to make legal transactions more reliable.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u193	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u194	through the office on forged documents. Sixth. To establish that if the registration card is submitted by a person who has the right to sign it or by a trusted person, no notarial assurance of such authenticity is required. This minimizes the possibility of abuse when submitting documents to the State registry. This bill will increase the reliability of property, business climate, trade and production in Ukraine today. We propose to include this bill on the agenda and to consider it in essence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u195	Are we going to talk or are we going to vote? Please sign up. Please, Mikhaylo Chechtov, faction of the Party of Regions. Get ready for Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u196	Respectable Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues, is a case, not a case, but legally, when we never look at authorship, at the author of the bill, if the bill really meets today's realities, aimed at developing the economy, raising social standards, he will always find support from the Party of the Regions, irrespective of the BUT or the “Our Ukraine” drafts the bill. Therefore, the bill, which is submitted by a member of the BUT faction Natalya Královska, is in line with President Viktor Fedorović Januković's policy of deregulation of the economy. That is why, of course, we support this initiative, and we call on the Faction of BUIT to support its colleague, Natalia Jurievna, and to vote in the first reading. But I wanted to mention another nuance. You know, it was quite right that Adam Ivanovich had said before that that the Company had voted 100 per cent in favour of a law that was in conformity with the Constitution, and the BUT faction had not voted 50 per cent in favour of a law that was in charge of the Constitution. I have a request: let us entrust the Company, which has 100 per cent of the Constitution, to take the BIT on hand and to learn that BUT is loved and respected by the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u197	Zarubinsky Oleg, faction of the People's Party. He's going to be followed, Carmazin is passing on to Leipzig.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u198	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! First, a few questions, maybe they're rhetorical. Is the only national register of legal persons and individuals engaged in confidential information? No, it's not. He shouldn't be like that. If people on competitive principles are doing business, economic activity, obviously they need to know who they're dealing with, that is, basic things that would show that this company, this company, can be dealt with, should be accessed. It's completely elementary. Moreover, I would like to point out what the drafter of the bill, the subject of the legislative initiative, is proposing. What's suggested is that on the website of the authorized public registration authority, I'll list some of these: full appointment and short-term appointment if it's available, identification code, organization-law form, location, availability of representation restrictions on the legal person's name, date of submission of the information and so on. How, though, can you engage in a partnership without knowing such basic things? So I think it's absolutely right, I agree here, I'm completely not interested, frankly, in the subjects of the legislative initiative of which the political power belongs. Well, believe me, I'm not interested. It's a legislative process, it has to be completely depoliticized. If it's the right thing to do, and they're the right thing to do, then everybody has to vote for them. And once again, I want to say that all of these points, I didn't call all of them open access, no lawyer, no one can be qualified not only as confidential information, but also information with limited access. It has to be really accessible. It's the right bill. The People's Party faction will vote for him.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u199	Xenia Leapina, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Prepared for Paul’s day.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u200	Thank you. Xenia Lapina, Party "For Ukraine!".. Of course, as coauthor of this bill, I support him. I just want to emphasize the importance of it and why it should be accepted urgently. If you walk past any government registrar right now, yeah, you'll see a turn. In this regard, there are entrepreneurs who take extracts from the State Register. Each extract costs 58 dollars and another 3.50 each page of the plugin. And those extracts, unfortunately, are now forced to take tens in order to then distribute to their counterparties. This happened after you and I, with one hand, with the right hand, canceled the testimony, and the other with the left, didn't open the register. And here we have today, in fact, everyone has to go to the registrar for these money withdrawals. It's a violent situation, it needs to be changed immediately. Our bill is actually taking a step in the direction of changing this situation. You don't need any extracts or statements. There's got to be an open register, and every day, basic information has to be made available. I'm a buyer, I'm buying someone's product, and I want to check it out, it's actually a registered subject, a decent person with whom I buy the goods. I have the right to do that, and I have the right to do it for free. He wants any counterparty to check his counterparty, and that's right, he's got to check it out, he's got to check if the right person is signing contracts with him. And that's all you can do if the register is open. And another little trailer. The register was open. It was discovered for about a year and a half by that government, which you are so terribly ashamed of. But then someone's lobbying interests worked and the register closed, and now without money, it's impossible to get information from the register. This needs to be fixed immediately. They shut him down.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u201	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u202	I'm done. So I'm convinced that by passing this law, we're all going to do the right thing and the right thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u203	Thank you. Andrew Pavlovsky, BUT faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u204	Andrew Pavlovski, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”, “Fathership”. Respectable compatriots! The Timoshenko bloc insists that we approve this bill by a member of the Party of the "Fatherland" of Natalia Královska, which aims to open up information, to restore access on the Internet to the only state register of legal persons and natural persons who are entrepreneurs. This will help improve the investment climate in our country. Unfortunately, what happens is that the last steps of today's power are just to make the investment climate worse, and the life of a small entrepreneur, and to rip the last skin off of it, let's say. Because they're already taking money from those poor entrepreneurs if they need help from this government register. It is understandable why officials have done so: to take the money wherever possible. This has to be done. On the other hand, I would like to say that the previous speaker from the Party of Regions on one of the TV shows said that the Party of Regions wanted to appoint opposition leaders. Not that it was real and below the people were the leaders of the opposition. And in order to do that, they have to clean up the leaders of the real opposition: and Julia Timoshenko, and Yuri Lucenka, throw away the game. Why do you have to throw them away for playing? So that they lose their right to run to parliament in the next presidential election. Your steps are clear in advance. But be. In any case, have a conscience, and do not tell us who will be our leader of the opposition. We're on our own, the people will choose a real leader. For the people, you know, the first sign of who is the leader: the one more persecuted; the one suffering for the sake of the people. This is the real leader, feared by the authorities.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u205	Dear colleagues, let's still talk about laws! Why is your leader the only one to register? Question completed. I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the draft Law on Amendments to certain legislative acts of Ukraine concerning the opening of access to the information of the Single State Register of Legal Persons and Business Persons. [[Registration number 8373]] Please vote. [[13:52:30.]] For 289 Questions are included in the agenda. The factions. Region Party 180, BUT 45, Our Ukraine 14, Communists 25, Reforms 2, People's Party 19, non-factional 4 Here's the answer to that question. I'm continuing the session for 15 minutes. We are discussing the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Industrial Parks Act. [[Registration number 8396]] Please, Queen.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u206	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! You are invited to consider the draft Industrial Parks Act. The purpose of this bill is to define rules for the creation, operation and management of industrial parks, i.e. we propose the creation of legitimate grounds for developing in our country one of the most effective instruments for attracting investment. You know that Ukraine has recently seen a significant increase in the number of depressive territories, the closure of industrial enterprises and a number of territories, in principle, now on the verge of a social catastrophe. In order for investment to come to Ukraine today, we understand very well that economic conditions are not enough, and unless political repression is halted, unless economic repression is halted, if Ukraine continues to humiliate all over the economy until then, of course, it is difficult to create conditions for the development of Ukraine's economy. But this bill proposes the creation of a mechanism for diversifying the mono-industrial structure of mono-geneouss that would allow investors today to invest money in our country and create high-tech productions. This will indeed increase the competitiveness of our economy. Because our hard economy, which is based on metal, chemistry, we see that today we are unable to compete in external markets. Experts believe that 15 strategic national parks of 200 hectares, as well as 25 regional and 200 local industrial parks, can be established in Ukraine. It is important that these parks can and should be located in depressive territories, that today they will be able to revive the territories and create additional jobs. But once again, I would like to recall that no economic incentives today will help Ukraine to rise in its competitiveness rating, economic rating and economic freedom, if any.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u207	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u208	If we don't stop the political repression in Ukraine, we won't be able to really raise any.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u209	Thank you, sit down. Please sign up. Carmazin, please follow him, Baldirev.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u210	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, "Our Ukraine" is the People's Self-Defense. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the authors of this bill, this is both Kaskova, and Royal and Lithuanian, and Chechov, for having, at least, the courage to talk about Ukraine standing at the border today. Although one of the speakers here yesterday said that such success is growing by 10 percent. I want to tell you that in the country, the Ministry of Industry is eliminated, just eliminated as a class, it's not there, it's a government reform. And the Ministry of Economics, which has to think about where to build, which goods are going to be produced, obviously instead of those imported from China or from other countries, there's no position at all. With the President's decree of December 10th, you've only had six months to write, Your Honor! And you're teaching the country how to run? Then learn to do so immediately. They've made their position, everything to be and everyone knows their job. As far as industrial parks are concerned. Industrial parks are not limited to a country that does not think about its future. And now we look like this country until we have this legislation. We need to set clear rules for the creation of industrial parks. And the law that it is, it has that draft law that it is, it has every chance of being adopted in the first reading. That is why I would ask you, Adam Ivanovich, and as soon as possible to ensure, I am convinced that we will vote in favour of this bill, ensure its adoption and consideration in this session. That is why I ask you to support this inclusion and then first read it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u211	Yuri Baldirev.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u212	In violation of the procedure, I would like to hear a simple answer from the author of the legislative initiative: how different this law is from those laws that have been in force in our country, until the authorities in 2005 reached Yulia Vladimirovna Timoshenko and destroyed the technology park, priority development territory and other forms of business support. What makes them different? Depending on how logical the answer is, my position will depend on the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u213	Pavlovsky, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u214	Andrey Pavlovski, "The House of Yulia Timoshenko is "The Fatherland". Ladies and gentlemen, the Law on Technology Parks is and works, by the way. It's a completely different bill. And you don't have to compare that to your free economic zones laws, when Donetsk, in the form of technological equipment, was imported by some officials who are now ministers, imported what are Bush's legs, and they were doing their billions and millions. And on the right hand side, you need to maintain your own industry. But on the other hand, no industrial parks will help the country where political repression takes place are political prisoners. First, the prisoners must be released: Yuri Lucenka, Makarenko, Didenka, Whisperer, and other young patriots
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u215	Asshole, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u216	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich! MPs for Reforms for the Future, People's Party, Mikolayevščina. The project proposes that if an industrial park is established on state or municipal property, the land area will be leased for a period of not less than 30 years. The management company of the industrial park is entitled without further agreement with the renter to transfer to the participants of the industrial park. And that's, of course, positive. In order to create industrial parks, the land area has to be at least 20 hectares [20 ha]. And the creation of industrial parks is predicted only in areas that are sold separately on competitive grounds in land trade. It's very good, it makes it possible today, really, to develop the economy of Ukraine. Our parliamentary group will support this bill. Unfortunately, I think the Chief Research Administration has made a lot of comments, but I think if there's Parliament's will, we can take all these problems down to second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u217	Question completed. I'm voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the draft Industrial Parks Act. [[Registration number 8396]] [[14:01:15]] For 247 It's on. Because these are the second zones that we used to know what this is. The issue of the inclusion in the agenda of the Act on Amendments to the Law on Collection and Accounting of the Single Contribution to the General Compulsory State Social Insurance is being considered. [[on voluntary participation in the mandatory public social insurance system]] [[Registration number 8384]] Please, Queen.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u218	This bill is indeed a test for Parliament. Because the two previous bills that we have included on the agenda are, of course, providing additional tools and opportunities for the development of the economy in our country. The bill under consideration is a bill that will either maintain the possibility of developing a middle class in our country, or we will allow people to take a business initiative and organize jobs, or we will continue to build an oligarchic economy, an economy aimed exclusively at stimulating the large industry. The economy, which today forms only serious verticals, monopolies in Ukraine, or we will do everything we can to help people who are already retired today, people who are forced to do so because pensions are below the minimum standard of living, to go to work and at least do some work can afford it. Since 1 January, the Single Social Contribution Act has entered into force, under which everyone, who is already retired, who has already accumulated money for a future pension, is now obliged to pay a single social contribution. This contribution is not commensurate with small business. And what did we get in the last six months? We got that half of those people were forced to go into the shadows and some of the people were forced to shut down. That is, the beautiful title of the Single Social Contribution Act promoted the shadow economy, promoted penal measures by law enforcement agencies and reduced some 100,000 jobs in Ukraine. Therefore, this bill suggests that individuals who are entrepreneurs can determine for themselves what kind of single social contribution they will have. And if they already have retirement and if they want to.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u219	Thank you. Have a seat, please. The committee, Hara. Please. A lot of you want to take everything away from your committee, let the others do some work.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u220	Respectable colleagues, the essence of the bill: An entrepreneur who is in retirement may switch to voluntary insurance. The Committee does not support such a bill. And what I'm saying is that the pophos that the author just talked about today have nothing to do with this bill. First. Compulsory public insurance cannot be voluntary. Second. Social Insurance Ideology: You're an insured person, you're paying contributions -- you get social insurance from all the funds; you don't pay, you're not an insured person -- you don't get anything. Third. This is a minimum of the most modest estimates of minus 500 million to the common fund of the single insurance contribution. Fourth. It is not supported by all ministries and departments that have to give their reviews of the bill. And the Scientific and Expert Office offered to send him to work out. This bill is contrary to the ideology of social insurance and cannot be adopted. All other problems or problems of entrepreneurs are not related to social insurance funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u221	Yes, if you would like to share in the discussion, write it down. Knazevitch. Get ready for King's Landing.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u222	May I have a word with Xenia Lapinius?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u223	Please, Xena Lapin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u224	Thank you. Xenya Lapina, Party "For Ukraine! "Dear colleagues! The problem is that we can't look at the essence of entrepreneurial activity as such. So there are various illusions that the head of the Social Policy Committee has just demonstrated. Here's a simple question for you. 90 percent of you are shareholders of some stockholder society, and you get dividends as shareholders accordingly. Do you know that these dividends are not taxed by compulsory social insurance? You're going to say, naturally, because that's the income from capital. You could say that's the capital revenue. And who told you that entrepreneurship is income from employment? No, it's the same income from capital. An entrepreneur invests his capital, his capital, his intellectual capital, his initiative capital, and his income accordingly. And this income is entrepreneurial from entrepreneurship and can't be compared to income from wages. He doesn't have an employer, no one pays him his salary. He conducts his activities at his own risk and fear. He can get zero revenue, he can get a lot of revenue, that's his risk. The state does not guarantee him minimum income. We're guaranteeing the employee minimum wage, aren't we? We guarantee it. The state doesn't guarantee him a vacation. We guarantee the hired worker a vacation. This is the nature of entrepreneurship and employment. And we need to finally understand that and give up social populism. Entrepreneurs, if they want to be insured and receive a state pension over a period of time, can voluntarily do so and so we have the right to do so. But if they want to provide themselves in another way for the future, it has to be their right, just as it is the right of any shareholder.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u225	Thank you. Royal, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u226	Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to the following figures. Here the previous speaker said that my bill would bring about 500 million losses to the social funds. So I would like to remind you that after the adoption of the Tax Code, the State budget losses will amount to 6 billion bracelets. Who will be responsible for this? 6 billion fines since the adoption of the Tax Code. The next experiment you set up, the pension reform that Parliament returned to the Cabinet of Ministers yesterday. Thus, while the pension reform was in Parliament and so far the whole country, all pensioners, all people before the retirement age were threatened by only one thought that it could enter into force. Hundreds of thousands of people have retired prematurely, quit their favorite jobs, and are forced to survive today for their poverty - stricken pensions. And you're still paying them with a single social contribution while you're paying them a minimum pension today. The third question is Cyprus. For how many years we have been talking about the denunciation of the Agreement with Cyprus. Billions of bracelets go to Cyprus and then come back here with all kinds of investments, but no one is denunciationing this agreement today. Fourth. You've reduced interest and tax on dividends under the Tax Code. This is more than 500 million dollars of under-budgeting. In this way, you have promoted large corporations and large companies. But you put an extra small and medium-sized business on a single social contribution. And we suggest the only thing that people who have already earned their retirement pension are those who have already paid all the necessary contributions and are taking risks and paying a single tax can today voluntarily participate in the single social insurance system. It's not budget losses, it's budget revenues, it's job creation, it's that.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u227	Thank you. I'll bet you a vote. One minute. Please, Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u228	Dear Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues, well, this is the case where Natalya Jurievna has highlighted the problem and she sees the problem, as the Party of Regions and the President sees. We have to pay her respects, she's thinking in this direction. There is only one difference between us: how do we see the way and the solution to this problem? She's offering to patch the hole locally. And we believe that the President believes that problems must be addressed systematically. Yesterday, on the committee, we passed a bill on the committee of Natalia Jurievna, a system-wide bill on tax changes concerning small business. And we propose to this government, and we suggest that the government consider addressing this problem. On the other hand, we have cleared the area for the introduction of new pension legislation to Parliament. This law can address this issue. So we need to systematically solve and untangle knots, not patch holes. The time of the blast is over. We are approaching systemic economic reform. That's the only way to succeed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u229	I am voting on the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Collection and Accounting of the Single Contribution to the General Compulsory State Social Insurance. [[Registration number 8384]] Please vote. [[14:12:15]] For-65 Not supported. And, dear fellows, let's put into order the daily draft of the Order marking the 70th anniversary of John Mikolaychuk's birth.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u230	Unfortunately, we don't have time for the Tax Code anymore, because we only have three minutes left. And this decision, I think, we will vote without discussion. Is there no objection? Then I put to the vote the proposal for inclusion in the agenda of the daily draft Order marking the 70th anniversary of John Mikolajczuk's birth. [[Registration number 8587]] Please vote. [[14:13:09]] For 281 Now I can call the author. Order's on. Project submitted by Kirilenko, Viacheslav Kirilenko Dear colleagues, this morning's meeting of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-06-01-m0.u231	We cannot consider the decision today, we can only consider the following. Let's try tomorrow. At this morning’s meeting of the Supreme Council, I declare closed. Since the 15th hour of committee meetings and factions. Tomorrow's 10 o'clock.
