ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m1.u1	Invite the national deputies to the session room so that we can continue our work. Please prepare for registration, distinguished national MPs. Turn on the "Race" system. [[16:01:53]] Three hundred and thirty - two national deputies registered in the session hall. The evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will be open. Ladies and gentlemen, we must now consider draft Law 9269. Where is this bill, I ask the secretary? A draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. [[on environmental audit]] There is a suggestion to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. Please support this proposal. [[16:03:14]] For 209 Decision taken. The rapporteur is the national deputy of Majbeard Sergey. The reporter is Sergey Glazunov.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m1.u2	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished members of the people! I bring to your attention the draft Ukrainian Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation. [[on improving environmental audit]] [[Registration number 9269]] [[of 7.10.2011]] The purpose of the bill is to streamline the collection of reliable information on the environmental aspects of the production of the environmental audit facility, to establish compliance of environmental audit facilities with the requirements of environmental law, to assess the effectiveness, completeness and validity of environmental protection measures on environmental audit sites. The proposed amendments to the Environmental Audit Act simplify environmental management systems in the field of environmental audit and clarify the general principles of environmental audit for facilities that pose an increased environmental risk, define the specificities of public oversight in the area of mandatory environmental audit. In addition, the proposed amendments to the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences determine the responsibility for violating the rules of mandatory environmental audit. The adoption of the bill will contribute to environmental safety and the prevention of technological accidents in the business and other activities of enterprises that pose an increased environmental risk. In addition, the draft law would facilitate the introduction of new technologies and equipment in production on the recommendations of environmental auditors, which in turn would reduce the environmental impact of facilities on the environment. In view of the above, I would like to support the adoption of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on first reading. [[on improving environmental audit]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m1.u3	Thank you, too. Sergey Glazunov, Secretary of the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Consequences of the Chernobyl Disaster
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m1.u4	Dear National Deputies! The Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster at its meeting reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine and decided to reject the bill. [[on improving environmental audit]] Of course, the issue of improving the environmental safety of enterprises is relevant and requires legislative implementation. However, the changes to the Ukrainian Environmental Audit Act are not in line with the concept, content and principles of environmental audit as an independent assessment process for the environmental audit object. Amendments to the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences duplicate the provisions of the Ukrainian Civil Code and translate the jurisdiction of the court into the bodies of a special authorized central authority in the field of ecology and natural resources. According to the Chief Research Administration, the project contains legally unfounded proposals for amendments to the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences and requires further development. The Committee on Legislative Protection of the Supreme Council of Ukraine also proposes to return the project to work. According to the Committee on Budget Affairs, the implementation of the bill requires additional funding from the State budget, but the authors do not provide financial and economic accounts in the face of article 27 of the Ukrainian Budget Code and article 91 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules. In view of the foregoing, the committee decided to reject the bill. Thank you for your attention and for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m1.u5	Dear colleagues, so, shall we vote? [[B in m in s a l in]] If anyone insists, please sign in. If anyone insists. Please put your name on the board. Vladimir Caplienko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m1.u6	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich and his distinguished colleagues! Having considered this bill, the MP's Reform for the Future has concluded that this bill can be supported today on the first reading. Although there are, of course, some warnings. And the main warning is that when a bill is adopted, environmental service representatives should not prove enterprises that are not relevant to today and do not have the status of enterprises producing products in environmentally hazardous formats, so that they are not subject to sanctions when a representative of supposedly fire safety or environmental workers comes along and "puts them on their knees" business. That's the first one. And the second. A little surprises the fact that from one to five years old, a representative of the environmental service is required to conduct an environmental audit at an enterprise. However, an enterprise may be shut down or suspended if the enterprise does not have this very expert conclusion: Environmental expertise. Then the question is, Who should provide this environmental conclusion for the enterprise? The company itself will not follow him. I think the second reading needs to be corrected. So the MP's Reform Group for the Future supports this bill in the first reading, and it is hoped that we will bring this bill with you in the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m1.u7	Thank you. Sergei Gordienko. Then George Skudar.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m1.u8	Sergei Gordijenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company, Poltavščina. The more we prepare drafts and more we talk about ecology, the more there are problems of environmental well-being in the regions. It's specifically about the bill. Let us take a serious look at the corruption component that is often present in this bill and what is involved in the verification structures. The only thing I can agree with is that the first reading is to support it. But if we were to be told by a committee representative that we need to work on it, let's ask them all together how we can work on it by following the concept that was set out in this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m1.u9	George Skudar, faction of the Regions. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m1.u10	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw the attention of the members of the Party of the Regions to the fact that it is not the first time that we have seen someone behind our back through the Supreme Council trying to pass a corrupt bill. In the first, even a close consideration of the bill, it is evident that the bill falls under the establishment of a specific structure that will be profited from the economy by industrial enterprises. In addition, so vulgarly drafted a bill that you simply wonder how the enterprise is required, if it does not have a document, to draw up a special report on this new environmental service, do you see that they have the right to stop the enterprise? It's impeccable, and it's sudden, and it's harmless. And I'm surprised there's a representative of the Ministry of Ecology sitting here, how such documents can be born by the Cabinet of Ministers and.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m1.u11	Finish your thought, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m1.u12	I suggest that I propose that this bill should not be put to work, but simply vote against such a bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m1.u13	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. The committee's proposing a rejection. The main scientific and expert office recommends that a bill be sent for further elaboration. In accordance with the Rules, I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine. [[on environmental audit]] Registration number 9269. Please vote. [[16:12:34]] For 209 The decision is not taken. The second proposal is to put a bill to the subject of the right of the legislative initiative to work. Registration number 9269. Please vote. [[16:13:02]] For 216 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? The Cabinet of Ministers requests that we include in the agenda a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code to ensure that the fleet of ambulances is updated. And the committee also recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine make a positive decision on this matter. A vote is taken on the proposal to include in the agenda of the daily draft law amending the Ukrainian Code of Taxation to ensure that the fleet of ambulances is updated. [[Registration number 9560]] Please vote. [[16:14:02]] For 271 Decision taken. Thank you. And the committee would like to prepare this matter for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft Law on the State Privatization Program is proposed. Now I'm going to see how many articles there are, how many articles there are. That number gives us reason to consider your proposal to discuss the issue with a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[16:14:53]] For 240 Decision taken. The rapporteur is Head of the State Property Fund Rybchenko Alexander Volodymyrovich, co-rapporteur of the Economic Policy Committee, Alexander Bondar. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m1.u14	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! The State Privatization Programme project was designed in accordance with the legislative requirements for privatization in exchange for the old programme, which was adopted in 2000. The new privatization program provides for better experience of previous programmes. The aim of the new programme is, on the one hand, to optimize state ownership at a level that the state can effectively manage. On the other hand, creating all the conditions for the restoration of production in privatized objects, the material base of new small and medium - size businesses. It is envisaged that the implementation of the proposed programme will allow for the overall completion of privatization as a large-scale socio-economic project. But the privatization of individual objects according to individual plans will exist according to the needs of the State and society. The specificity of this program is the clear distinction between mass and individual privatization processes. On the basis of individual development, post-privatization development, increasing their competitiveness in relevant markets, ensuring through privatization of social needs and the security of the state. The program will ensure that funds are made available to the state budget at 50-70 billion dollars that can be used to develop new technologies and production. People's deputies please support the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m1.u15	Thank you. Alexander Mikolaiovich Bondar, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m1.u16	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The Committee on Economic Policy discussed at its meeting on December 6, the State Privatization Program, developed by the State Holding Fund of Ukraine and presented by the Cabinet of Ministers. The programme’s position is aimed at ensuring that public objects are privatized at high rates, primarily those who are redundant to perform their functions do not use demand from buyers, are cost-effective and low-cost. It also proposes the application of individual principles of privatization of enterprises of strategic importance to the economy, the security of the State, for which no prohibition and restrictions on privatization have been imposed. In general, the new programme is called upon to create conditions to ensure the completion of the privatization process as a large-scale socio-economic project and should optimize the public sector of the economy, make it possible for the State to provide national and economic security. The program is scheduled for 4 years. And it is clear that in preparing for the second reading, the deadline will have to be changed from 2012 to 2015, since 2011 is already ending. It should be noted that, to date, privatization of state property is being carried out in accordance with the current State Privatisation Programme, which was planned for the period 2000-2002. The privatisation programme 2000-2002 has exhausted its capabilities, but legislation continues to work until the new programme is approved. In view of the above, the Economic Policy Committee proposes to adopt the draft Ukrainian Law on the State Privatisation Programme as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m1.u17	Yes, thank you. Do you want to talk about it? Please sign up. Please, Gregory Smythech.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m1.u18	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! As we look at the processes that are taking place in our country's economy, especially in privatization moments, we feel that for 20 years we continue to destroy our Ukraine, destroy its potential in an industrial way. Because almost no privatization of sectors has led to an increase in the production of a product in Ukraine. Almost no product has been created in all of Ukraine's years of independence in order to meet the world's needs in the areas of those that Ukraine has traditionally occupied or could take up leading positions. Why is this happening? Because every year we make changes to the list of enterprises that are subject to privatization. And I've never, and I've never seen in these years, in six years of the Supreme Council, that they give us some material to the Supreme Council that shows that, in fact, an enterprise has to be privatized, because it doesn't have strategic significance, it doesn't give us additional jobs, it doesn't create, it doesn't produce any products that are competitive, and that's why the state is looking for a owner who can give it advice. And, of course, if this work were to be done, maybe we'd have another painting, in my opinion, in privatization moments. Experience shows that we lost our industrial independence in Ukraine. And today, Ukraine, unfortunately, in high-tech processes in equipment, technology, installation and so on depends on other states. Accordingly, I find that in an industrial nature, Ukraine is dependent on countries that are not always friendly to our state. So, of course, those businesses that don't work, they could long have been privatized and looked for the kind of host that would give that advice. That's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m1.u19	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m1.u20	So my suggestion is, of course, that the first reading should be accepted. But the committee and we, as national deputies, need to give a detailed description of every object subject to privatization. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m1.u21	Thank you. Zibenko's handing Eugene Marmazov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m1.u22	Thank you. I fully support my previous colleague, Mr. Grigori Mihajlovich, as a result of the privatization that is taking place in our country. Well, as far as the state programme is concerned. Well, let's just say that really, the fact that the program came out is a big credit to the Holding Fund. Because we've been waiting for this program since 2002, it's appeared. But it must be said that, of course, I would say, the programme has been cut off, and above all, there are a number of serious issues that have not been reflected in the programme. This is what we discussed today at the meeting of our Special Monitoring Commission on Privatization. That's the first one. The programme does not cover the extent to which privatization will take place. What's it like to get 25 percent? Is that good or bad? Why 25? Why not 30? Why not 15? Who's got 25? First. Second. Why there are no sectoral regional features of privatization. It's about dating. Privatization, taking into account sectoral characteristics, is the decision of the Security Council as early as 2008, and there is a decision by the Government of the current programme, the Economic and Social Development Programmes 2012-2014. I quote: “The privatization of strategic industries needs to be implemented in the light of sectoral programmes”. It's not in the program. It must be reflected in the second reading. Well, there are contentions on the ground. It is not clear what to do with the land that is under privatized facilities? And, of course, a controversial question about the stock control package. A 60 per cent control package is installed, and we put 50 plus 1 and 25 years for the state. Now these gospakets will follow a simplified pattern, which is unacceptable. This should be taken into account in the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m1.u23	Vladimir Karpuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m1.u24	Vladimir Karpuk, "Our Ukraine". Our faction will not support this bill, and there are good reasons. First of all, it's good that we've made public the purpose, the ways, the actions and the task of privatization. That's good. But it is doubtful that even this step - by - step privatization has already taken place. 2011 is planned as a year when the conditions for privatization, the legal framework, the institutional framework, are created. Only a few days left before the end of 2011. This will not normally be done. Therefore, in 2011 it was envisaged to provide for the array of enterprises that would be privatized. As far as action is concerned, I think that the first objective of this programme is to privatize, even as is said, mass involvement in land privatization. Because it is a problem for enterprises that have privatized, and land remains state property. It also raises doubts about the figure that is given. Which has already ended in 2011, and almost three years from now, the amount of privatized objects should be between 50 billion and 70 billion dollars. In recent years, the state budget has been recorded year after year with a figure of 10 billion, to be received by the state from privatization. In fact, these programs were implemented by 20-30 percent. How this will be done in the new program is also unknown. And above all, it is untrustworthy that good intentions, low-cost enterprises are really being declared. But first and foremost, strategic enterprises are privatising, and very quickly, as recently privatized by Kievenergo.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m1.u25	Question completed. I am voting on the proposal to adopt as a basis for the first reading of the draft law on the State Privatisation Programme. [[9509]] Please vote. [[16:26:33]] For 243 The bill was adopted in the first reading. The factions? Please. The Regional Party – 188, "BUT – Fatherland" – did not vote, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 4, Communists – 0, "Reforms for the Future" – 19, National Party – 20, non-factional – 12. We are considering the draft Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian Privatisation Laws on the Implementation of the State Privatisation Programme 2011-2014. [[Registration numbers 9520, 9520-1]] There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. Please be supportive. [[16:27:38]] For 236 Offer supported. The first bill we have is a government bill. Reports the Head of the State Property Fund Rybchenko Alexander Volodymyrovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m1.u26	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! According to its content, the proposed bill has been designed legislatively to ensure the implementation of the State Privatization Programme. The project includes requirements for preprivatization of public facilities, clearly defines privatization objects, refines the classification of privatization objects, and expands the sections that regulate the sale of privatization objects. Clearly defined ways of privatizing: auctions, competitions, opening prices by auction principle, auctions with lower prices that will ensure buyers’ competition, and allowing them to ask and speed up sales of mass privatization objects, and implementing low - demand objects. Much attention has been paid to the preparation and privatization of H. List of H - group objects subject to privatization will be approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. In the light of world practice, commitments to investors are optimized by determining the list of exceptional conditions in the event of failure to comply with which contracts may be terminated or declared null and void. At the same time, it should be determined that the bill preserves all benefits and social guarantees for privatised workers. Dear National Deputies! Please support the bill and accept it as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m1.u27	Thank you. Yes, and we have a second draft of Alexander Bondar's authorship. Please, are you from the committee? Yes, well, please, your bill. Then it's from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m1.u28	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! I passed an alternative bill to the Privatization Act for that purpose. Many years ago, the Holding Fund tried to generalize all legislative acts of privatization, four of them today, in a single act on privatization of state property. These attempts have not been made and supported by the government. And for today, I know that the Holding Fund has also tried to pass the only Privatization Act, not the four amendments, and this makes unnecessary confusion in the application of legislation as the only project. Unfortunately, the government, and primarily the Ministry of Justice, did not support this initiative. And I made such an attempt on my part. I mean, my law is conceptually different because it combines all the privatization laws into a single document, it has 100 pages, 108 articles, 11 chapters. Each of them describes in detail the whole process of privatization. There is no attempt after the adoption of this law of double interpretation of any legislation, and that would simplify the process, make it more transparent. I understand that as a representative of the opposition, I have no chance of supporting this bill. But I'm going to report the committee's decision, and I have the hope that in the second reading, some principles of my bill will still be taken into account. I want to say again that the bill is designed to show professionally the difference in the treatment of the existence of four laws or the only law, as is done in the codes by the government. That's what I'm trying to do with the privatization laws. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m1.u29	Thank you. Alexander Mikolaiovich, you stay close, go back. Alexander Mikolaiovich! It was Alexander Mikolaiovich who reported his Bill 9520-1. Now he's the committee's opinion on two bills, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m1.u30	No, I'm reporting to the committee. The Economic Policy Committee on December 6th reviewed the government bill, today considered my alternative. Since December 6 was decided to support the government bill, clearly my support was no longer possible. It would be the best option if we had under the Rules the opportunity of four laws passed by the Cabinet of Ministers on the committee to revise and make a single law. Regrettably, however, the Rules do not provide for this, and this will be a violation of the Rules. So the most optimal decision that the committee has made today is to support the people's deputies, it's to take a bill from the government. And alternative project 9520-1 is rejected. At the same time, the individual positions and approaches contained in this project are used in the development of the government project 9520. The same position is expressed in the administration, in the scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council: to support the Kabminian, the position of the alternative bill to be used in the second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m1.u31	Thank you. Shall we discuss it? Vote? I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the first reading of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts on privatization for the implementation of the provisions of the State Privatisation Programme 2011-2014. [[Registration number 9520]] The subject of the legislative initiative is the Cabinet of Ministers. Please vote. [[16:34:02]] For 238. The bill was passed in the first. Accordingly, the alternative is not to vote, that is, when the committee prepares for the second reading, let it take reasonable thought into the one that was adopted in the first reading. Dear colleagues, you know that the budget year is ending. We didn't get the required number of votes, we didn't have six votes to put in order a daily bill to amend the Ukrainian Act on the 2011 National Budget for Ukraine on the increase in expenditure on the technical restocking of coal-fired enterprises. This is registration number 9564. The Cabinet of Ministers is urging us, in view of this, once again, that this is about the 2011 State Budget, and we hope that we will not work again in 2011, except this session week, to bring it back into the agenda. So I'm putting the motion to a vote: I would like to support the proposal to return to the consideration of the inclusion in the agenda of Bill 9564. Please be supportive. [[16:35:42]] For 244 We're back. I now propose to vote to include in the agenda of the day session a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2011 on the increase in expenditure on technical restocking of coal-fired enterprises. [[Registration number 9564]] Please vote. [[16:36:17]] For 244 Thank you. Included in the agenda. This is the Committee on Budget Affairs, preparing it for Thursday. We are considering: the draft Act amending the Final Provisions of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian laws on the Conservation of Soil Fertility. [[concerning deferral]] [[Registration number 9585]] Here's the reporter, he's also the author of the bill, and from the committee, Grigory Mikolaiovich Kaletnik. Please, four minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m1.u32	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies, respected farmers, and agricultural workers! In June 2009, the Ukrainian Act on Change of Certain Legislative Acts on the Conservation of Soil Fertility was adopted. The specific provisions of the Act, namely, the imposition of fines for the use of land-based agricultural assignments without the established and approved projects by the Land Administration, which provide for the environmental and economic justification of land-use change and arrangement, and provide for land-use protection measures, shall enter into force on 1 January 2012 in accordance with the Act adopted on 1 June 2010 by the Supreme Council of Ukraine amending paragraph 1 of section I of the Act on the Final Position of Ukraine "To amend certain legislation on the conservation of soil fertility". Thus, since January 1, 2012, large fines have been provided for the absence of such projects by the land administration. And that's what I want to say, my personal opinion and the committee on that. That it is the right norm, because the irresponsible treatment of the earth, the exploitation of the earth only for profit without preserving its fertility, the depletion of the land, really, requires serious punishment today. But unfortunately, we didn't settle a whole range of other positions where both tenants and landowners would be confident that the project they ordered and paid would be stable even within 7 or 10 years. In addition, the large amount of work and costs needed to carry out, and so not all the tenants, especially the farmers and the average users of our land, have been able to develop suitable land projects within the specified deadline. The project is proposed to end at the legislative level of time required for the development of projects by a land system that provides for environmental and economic justification for the migrations and thus provides for land protection measures, and will entail the imposition of appropriate fines under article 55 of the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences. The proposed changes recommend the application of responsibility for the use of agricultural land areas of more than 100 hectares without approved projects by the Land Administration to postpone this responsibility until 1 January 2013. In this regard, I would like to support the proposal to extend the deadline for the implementation of the proposed standard until 1 January 2013 and suggest that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt a draft Act amending the Final Provisions of the Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislation on soil fertility, based on the law as a whole. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m1.u33	And thank you. Is there a need to discuss? Yes. Apart from Karpuk, others don't insist? Please, Vladimir Karpuk. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m1.u34	Vladimir Karpuk, "Our Ukraine". We will vote in favour of this law, but there are warnings. First, the bill was adopted in 2009, i.e. it was two years to make projects, three years even, land projects. Secondly, I don't think that from the beginning of the statement that he's protecting the interests of the small ones, there, farmers who own land, first of all, it's going to protect the large landowners who have 200, 400,000 hectares of land, by 500,000 acres of land that have done nothing for it, either. And first of all, it's the protection of these people themselves. Although this has already happened, some warnings are needed to ensure that the terms of this law are fulfilled by 2012. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m1.u35	Thank you. Question completed. I am voting on the proposal for the adoption of the Act amending the Final Provisions of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian laws on the conservation of soil fertility. [[concerning deferral]] [[Registration number 9585]] Please vote. [[16:42:27]] For-286 Thank you. The law is passed. We are considering: the draft Act amending Chapter X of the Land Code on the prohibition of alienation and the change of destination of agricultural land. [[Registration number 9586]] Here from the authors and from the committee is Gregory Kaletnik. Please, four minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m1.u36	Honourable Adam Ivanovich, honourable colleagues, on your proposal for a draft Ukrainian Law amending Chapter X of the Land Transition Code on the Prohibition of Derogation and Change of Assignment of Lands of Agricultural Assignment, will note that the bill has been prepared and submitted for your consideration for the execution of the mandate of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Litvin Vladimir Mikhajlovich, as a result of the consideration at the plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 9 December 2011 in the first reading of the draft Law on Land Market. The bill proposes to amend paragraphs 14 and 15 of section X of the "Transitional Positions" of the Ukrainian Land Code and to continue to act until 1 January 2013 as a moratorium on the purchase and sale or other means of alienating and altering the targeted destination of land for agricultural production, private agriculture. Such changes are related to the prohibition of alienation and the change of destination for commercial agricultural production, private agriculture, and the introduction of land ownership rights to fixed capitals of agricultural societies to take effect under the laws of Ukraine on the State Land Cadastre and on land market, but not before 1 January 2012. [[pear]] The Ukrainian Act on the State Land Cadastre and the new edition of the Ukrainian Law on the State Registration of Real Estate Rights and Their Burdens will take effect in 2013 in accordance with the Supreme Council's December 9th Act on the amendment of certain laws of Ukraine concerning the enforcement of real estate rights and their burden on the State of their registration. Moreover, based on the rules of the Rules, the draft Land Market Act adopted in the first reading by 1 January 2012 cannot be finalized and adopted as a law as a whole. Thus, the moratorium will not be extended as proposed by the bill. But since January 1st, there will be a question of defining at the legislative level a specific date of withdrawal a moratorium which, in the absence of modern conditions, under different technologies and schemes can inevitably lead to a variety of manipulations and arbitrary interpretations. With a view to avoiding these negative effects, the withdrawal point is to establish a moratorium in relation not to the period of validity of the Land Market Act and the State Land Cadastre, but to a specific date. In addition, it will contribute to the creation of an effective and transparent system for registering property rights in land areas, as well as an effective mechanism for the interaction between the State Land Cadastre and the State Register of Real Estate Rights, which will allow for the free circulation of agricultural land. The Chief Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council came to a positive conclusion. On 14 December 2011, the Committee of the Supreme Council on Agrarian Policy reviewed the bill and recommended to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft law amending Chapter X of the Land Transition Code on the prohibition of alienation and the change of destination of agricultural land as a whole. Thank you for your attention, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m1.u37	Thank you. It's all clear. There's a proposal to support a good proposal that is based on what we really need to eliminate the issue for at least one year. I am voting on the proposal for the adoption of the Amendment Act to Chapter X of the Land Code on the Prohibition of Derogation and Change of the Purpose of Assignment of Agricultural Land. [[Registration number 9586]] Please vote. Vote and listen to what they say. [[16:47:47]] For 275 Thank you. The law is passed. We are considering the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Use of Nuclear Energy and Radiation Security. [[on supplementing the list of nuclear facilities]] [[Registration number 9448]] There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. Please be supportive. [[16:48:25]] For 229 Supported. Alla Alexandrovska reports, get Romanyuk ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m1.u38	Thank you. Respectable colleagues, modern nuclear technology, have been able to address a number of nuclear security issues. These problems include the low burning rate of nuclear fuel, the accumulation of nuclear wastes and the theoretical possibility of nuclear accidents. You know how serious these problems are. A new class of nuclear installations has now emerged, including sub-compositions managed by linear accelerators. They enable the possibility of nuclear accidents to be excluded, enable them to completely burn all uranium, make nuclear energy safer, cleaner. Such facilities are being developed actively in many countries around the world. In order to use clandestine assemblies in Ukraine, it is necessary to establish legal frameworks, in particular that they should be included in the list of nuclear installations, as required by the Law on the Use of Nuclear Energy and Radiation Security. In particular, the law should provide for the definition of nuclear covert assembly, installation as an object intended for the handling of nuclear materials and located within the boundaries defined by the draft territories, the object of technological design that makes it impossible to create a self-supported chain reaction under any conditions of operation. It is also necessary to clarify the role of public administration in the use of nuclear energy and radiation security. The proposed bill addresses the problem in the Ukrainian legislative field. And I ask you to support the bill, accept it as a basis and as a whole. [[Registration number 9448]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m1.u39	Thank you. From the Committee of Romanyuk Mikopovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m1.u40	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! The Committee on Fuel and Energy Complex, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security, at its meeting on 7 December 2011, reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Law on the Use of Nuclear Energy and Radiation Security, submitted by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Alexandrovska Allo. [[on supplementing the list of nuclear facilities]] [[Registration number 9448]] During the discussion of the issue, the committee noted that the bill was a fairly important and relevant issue for nuclear energy, but needed a proper legal solution because of the non-conformity of the legislative acts governing relations in the field of nuclear energy use. In particular, the Ukrainian Nuclear Power and Radiation Security Act does not include forward-looking nuclear facilities. As a result, the current legislation does not provide for the establishment of an operational organization for a nuclear sub-secretary, whereas the authorities of the state regulation of nuclear and radiation security under the Ukrainian Act on Free Activities in the Use of Nuclear Energy, a license for the introduction of activities related to the specific stage of the life cycle of a nuclear installation, can only issue a nuclear installation that is adequately designed by the operating organization. The main scientific and expert administration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine supports this legislative proposal aimed at improving nuclear legislation in the harmonization of the norms established by Ukraine's basic laws on the use of nuclear energy. As a result of the consideration and discussion of the issue, the Committee on Nuclear Energy, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security decided to propose to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, as a result of the first reading, to accept it as a basis and as a whole. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m1.u41	Thank you. Vote? I'm voting on the proposal to adopt the Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Use of Nuclear Energy and Radiation Security. [[on supplementing the list of nuclear facilities]] [[Registration number 9448]] Please vote. [[16:53:13]] For 271 Thank you, the law has been passed. We listen to the question: the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[on improving the order of the execution of judicial proceedings]] Registration number 9535. There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. Please be supportive. [[16:53:44]] For 224 Offer supported. Valery Pisarenko will report, please, and also from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m1.u42	Thank you, Reverend Adam Ivanovich, thank you, dear colleagues! The current adoption of this bill is due to the need to improve the provisions of existing legislation that regulate the procedure for the conduct of judicial proceedings in Ukraine. The proposed draft law is designed to improve the efficiency of the work of judges in Ukraine, to ensure the stability of their decisions as an effective tool for protecting human rights, freedoms and interests. The adoption of the bill has been called upon to create a legal mechanism to guarantee the invariability of court decisions, to remove the possibility of abuse of the right to re-examine the terms of reference for judicial review. It will also prevent cases where a judicial decision is reviewed after a considerable period of time since it has gained legal power. The project provides for changes to procedural codes, which are particularly proposed: To determine that the judge involved in the case cannot participate in the review of the decisions made in connection with his participation in judicial decisions under the newly discovered circumstances. The other one. Strengthen the duty of the court to take part in the case of persons who are not parties to the case. If it is established that a judicial decision may affect their rights and duties. Third. Improve in civil and administrative processes the resolution of re-examinations to appeal and cassation complaints. In addition, the bill proposes to address other issues related to the terms and procedures of the various courts. Ladies and gentlemen, if this bill is passed, we will take you and the questions that sometimes arise when the courts, under difficult circumstances, resume their judicial decisions on a case that has passed a 10-15-year term. Regrettably, such experiences exist. And that's why today we want the country to have a presumption of ownership, not the assumption that some moment the prosecutor's office can bring to trial and break a decision that was somehow happening in this state 10 years ago. Adam Ivanovich, I'll move on to the committee's decision. I'm going to ask the session room, there's technical remedies, to adopt this bill as a basis and as a whole. The committee's decision. The Supreme Council Committee on Justice discussed at its meeting on 7 December this year the draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine and decided to recommend to the Supreme Council the result of the first reading of the bill. [[Registration number 9535]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m1.u43	Thank you. Yeah, we'll talk about it? Vote? I am voting on the proposal to adopt the Act amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[on improving the order of the execution of judicial proceedings]] [[Registration number 9535]] Please be supportive. [[16:57:04]] For 253 Thank you. The law is passed. Dear colleagues, we must now consider the draft law amending the Ukrainian Tax Code. [[Registration number 9347]] But we included it, as decided by the Conciliation Board, in connection with the fact that we had a bill on Thursday under number 9346 on measures to ensure the continued operation of the defence and industrial complex. So there's an offer to look at them together now. So first it's going to be 9346. And I'm going to put it to the vote to see it today. And then it's going to be 9347. I'll put it to a vote. Since these bills are interlinked, I would like to support the proposal to move from Thursday to today, and the committee is prepared to report on Bill 9346 on measures to ensure the continued functioning of the defence and industrial complex. Please be supportive. [[16:58:24]] For 219 Once again, dear colleagues. In the decision of the Conciliation Council, you and I included in the agenda of the 9347 daytime project this morning in connection with the fact that on Thursday we have to consider Bill 9346. And without 9347, this Bill 9346 will not work in its entirety. Since we are currently considering Bill No. 9347, there is a proposal for Thursday to be transposed and today we will consider both of these bills, otherwise we will be carrying 9347 on Thursday because they are related. I once again put to the vote the proposal to consider today, along with 9347 and the bill prepared by the profile committee number 9346. Please vote. [[16:59:35]] For 221 The factions, please. The Party of Regions – 183, "The Fatherland" – did not vote, "Our Ukraine" – 8, the Communists – did not vote, "Reforms" – 2, National Party – 20, non-fractional – 8. Okay. Then we will consider Bill 9347, the draft Act amending the Code of Taxation of Ukraine. [[on business taxation issues of the defence and industrial complex]] There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. Please be supportive. [[17:00:22]] For 229 Supported. Report by Zabarsky Vladislav Valeriyovich. Get ready, Homutinik.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m1.u44	Dear colleagues! The situation with the defence-industrial complex is known to everyone, it's very critical. With a view to improving this situation, Bill 9346 has been drafted, which we should consider today, measures aimed at ensuring the continued functioning of the defence and industrial complex. Since this law proposed a range of measures to improve the financial situation, namely, debt restructuring, including tax. It was necessary to amend the Tax Code. Because changes to the Tax Code had to be made by a separate law. And so what Adam Ivanovich said was that in order for Law 9346 to work, it was necessary to adopt this law, which I'm about to report -- 9347. It's called: "To make changes to the Ukrainian Tax Code. [[on taxation issues for enterprises in the defence and industrial complex]] The aim of this bill is to address procedural issues before the implementation of the write-off mechanism and the restructuring of the tax debt of the listed enterprises, which was created because of the difficult financial and economic situation of the listed enterprises. I ask you to support this law in the first reading. And if that's possible, let's go back to reviewing Law 9346 at the same time. Because this is essential for the functioning, normal functioning of the defence and industrial complex. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m1.u45	The committee will be chaired by the Committee on Finance, Banking, Tax and Customs Policy, Homutinnik Vitaly Yuriovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m1.u46	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! The committee considered the legislative proposal of the Zabarsky People’s Deputy. The project is proposing the write-off of the protection and industrial complex of pennies, fines, fines in accordance with tax legislation. Including the proceedings of an administrative or judicial charge. The project is also proposed to restructure the principal debt, i.e. tax debt, on October 1, 2011 for a period of up to 60 calendar months. This will enable us to stabilize the complex situation that has arisen in the defence and industrial complex and resolve a number of issues that must be resolved today in the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine. As far as regulatory procedure is concerned. It is really important that two bills are adopted, because one does not work without the other. Therefore, 9347 if accepted, perhaps by procedure, we could add to the second reading the rules that are in Bill 9346 and name this bill as amendments to the Tax Code and other legislative acts. Maybe that would be the way out. The committee has therefore considered the bill and proposes to accept it as a basis. The Cabinet of Ministers also concluded that the bill was supported. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m1.u47	Yes, the honourable national deputies who wish to participate in this discussion please sign up. Please put the names of the national MPs on the board. Grivkowski, please. He's refusing. Then Fedun. He's refusing? Corporal Vladimir, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m1.u48	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! You know, today, when we put to the vote with a 9346 candace, I'd like to remind you that this bill was on the fourth floor, it's really connected. We support those who have spoken from the parliamentary rostrum to the head of the profiling committee. However, the MP's Reform for the Future cannot find the strength to support both the Bills and the 46th and 47th, either in the first reading or in the second. In our view, what's been introduced in these bills, particularly in 47th and 46th, I recall that the 46th is actually the removal of 2 billion dollars from the State budget to pay off the debt of the Ucroborprom and so on before the state budget for municipal services and so on. And the 47th Bill, if it's not adopted in 46th, it doesn't make any sense at all. Therefore, the MPs will not vote in favour of Bill 9347 and will not vote in favour of Bill 9346. We explained our position because Adam Ivanovich had previously put Bill 9346 to the vote twice. So you can understand our position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m1.u49	Please, Jaroslav Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m1.u50	Dear colleagues, mani, it is a shame that the issue of high-tech production in Ukraine, and it is the problem of the military-industrial complex, that it becomes some kind of variable coin, either in misunderstandings, in misunderstandings, or in some political insinuation. The point is that we have a whole sector -- a military-industrial complex -- we have the central government of Ucroborprom, we have a difficult financial situation, a material situation that has grown during the years of the global crisis. We understand very well with you that Zaporezka Spark and Donetsk Topaz, and Coalposit, other industrial enterprises need to be cleaned up for normal farming, all of these wettings in the form of fines and foams. So either simply or the committee didn't fully explain or understand what was going on, because today there is a suspicion that one person is not so prepared to clean up in the future so that private capital can be made here and the companies of the CAP to earn money.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m1.u51	Dear colleagues, the bill is closed. The committee proposes to adopt the bill as a basis. A number of comments were made to the bill by the Chief Scientific and Expert Office. I am voting on the proposal of the adoption committee on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code on Taxation of Enterprises of the Defence and Industrial Complex) [[Registration number 9347]] . Please vote. [[17:08:04]] For 247 Decision taken. The factions, please. Region Party – 189, "BUT – "Fathership" – 0, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 1, communists – 26, "Reforms for the Future" – 0, National Party – 20, non-fractional – 12. A draft Act amending article 7 of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the system of monetary regulation and monetary control is being announced for consideration. [[on the expansion of the use of Ukraine's currency]] [[Registration number 9488]] The committee suggests that the issue be considered in a simplified procedure. Please vote. [[17:08:53]] For 237 Decision taken. The rapporteur is the deputy head of the National Bank of Ukraine, Krotuk Volodymyr, co-rapporteur of the Vitaly Homutinnik Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m1.u52	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! A bill has been drafted by the National Bank of Ukraine to expand the use of coins by Ukraine’s external economic activities with nonresidents. [[Registration number 9488]] The need for adoption of the bill is determined by the following. Currently, according to article 7 of the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers' Decree on Monetary Control and Monetary Control, foreign currency is used as a means of payment for foreign currency between residents and non-residents within trade. Such calculations are allowed by the currency of Ukraine only if the individual license of the National Bank of Ukraine is obtained. The current legislative constraints do not contribute to a positive shift in the monetary structure of external economic accounts. The corresponding majority of external economic payments are currently made in foreign currency. This situation has led to the accumulation by Ukrainian exporters and importers of unnecessary foreign exchange risks in trade transactions, which may have significant negative effects on Ukraine’s economy in times of instability in the world’s financial markets. The amendments proposed by the bill provide for the free use of both foreign currency and bracelets between residents and non-residents in commercial transactions without the need to obtain individual licenses from the National Bank. These legislative innovations will reduce the foreign exchange market pressure of Ukraine to remove foreign exchange risks, as well as increase Ukraine's foreign exchange position in international markets. The bill received a positive conclusion from the Chief Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please support the bill by adopting it as a basis and generally as a law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m1.u53	Thank you, too. Have a seat, please. He's the head of the Vitaly Hometics Committee. Please, the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m1.u54	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! The proposed changes are intended to allow the use of bracelets in external economic transactions. It should be noted that for the time being, a bracelet can be used in similar trade operations with SND and Baltic countries. The practice proved this. That it is convenient enough to make such calculations in the national currency and after having held several meetings with the National Bank of Ukraine, it was decided to distribute such practices to all other countries. Expansion of the use of the external economic account bracelet will have positive effects, including by increasing the role of the bracelet in the handling of Ukraine's gross domestic product, creating additional incentives for Ukrainian exporters. This also has a positive impact on the stable functioning of Ukraine’s currency market. In view of the fact that the proposed changes will allow the use of bracelets only to serve real trade, the risks associated with possible currency speculation are minimised. Such authorizations are granted to the National Bank. The committee has considered the bill and recommends that it be adopted in the first reading and in general. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m1.u55	Thank you. Please sign up, Your Honor, for a discussion. May I have the names of the people's deputies on the board? Jaroslav Kenzior. Stanislaw Arzhevtin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m1.u56	Ladies and gentlemen, the National Bank's proposal is, indeed, correct, but only on the first reading. Why? First of all, all the reporters said that they were allowed to make calculations in a bracelet. That's right. But in fact, the text of the law says a little bit different: "You're making calculations in Ukraine's currency." I'd like to remind reporters that since the adoption of the Constitution of Ukraine in 1996, and the Monetary Decree was adopted in 1993, the words "the currency of Ukraine" do not exist. Once again, according to article 99 of the Constitution of Ukraine, "The money unit of Ukraine is the bracelet." That's why in the text of the law we have to write, "calculations are made with a monetary unit of bracelets." Now I'm going to read to you what's going to happen if we leave the word "Ukraine's currency," and I'm going to read to you in the text of 1993, in the text of the decree of the Cabinet of Ministers: "The currency of Ukraine is monetary signs in the form of banknotes, treasury notes, and then coins, in other forms that are in circulation in Ukraine, and also removed from circulation, or those that are being removed from it, or exchanged." [[That's how they're going to be calculated now.]] [[And treasury tickets are non-exchangeable for gold-dealing paper money.]] [[You can imagine, with sacks, with coins in international relations.]] Why bother with an incomprehensible terminology? There is a Constitution that has determined that Ukraine’s monetary marks are bracelets. Let's both write, and no words like "Ukraine's currency" should be used in the text of the law. So I suggest, if you take it as a whole, that you replace the word "currency" with the word "currency" as it says in the Constitution: the monetary unit is a bracelet. That's the first thing if you take it as a whole. And if we don't take it as a whole, then send it to the second reading and write, I'm sorry, in human terms, as the Constitution stipulates. And you can really hear the offer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m1.u57	What does the bank think about the proposals? Yes, no, you didn't go there. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, Stanislav Arzvitin, rephrase your proposal, and the deputy head of the National Bank will listen to you, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m1.u58	Ladies and gentlemen, among other things, I raised this question on our committee, and the transcript found it: to accept the offer of Arjevetina. This was discussed by the deputy head of the National Bank, who was the first deputy to be on our committee. And I'm going to rephrase, and I'm going to suggest that we support the National Bank's proposal for international accounts with our partners in bracelets, that's right. But write it in accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine, delete the word "Ukraine's currency." Instead of that word, write "the money unit of Ukraine is the bracelet." And this will be in line with the Constitution of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m1.u59	Yes, please, Vladimir Leonidovich, do you support this offer or not?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m1.u60	Thank you. I think we can support the National MP's proposal, agree with it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m1.u61	Vitaly Yuriovich, as suggested by one politician, "obedient"? Yeah, instead of the word "right." So, uh, tell me, please, what are you?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m1.u62	If the National Bank agrees with such terminology, the committee, I think, will not interfere. And the main thing is that we should adopt this law as a whole so that it can start working on January 1st of the following year.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-12-20-m1.u63	Honorary colleagues, taking into account the proposal made by Stanislav Arzvetin and with whom I have agreed to vote on the decision of the Committee on Adoption as a basis and the draft Act amending Article 7 of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the system of monetary regulation and monetary control. [[on expanding the scope of national use, as it says. Ukraine's money unit - bracelets]] I think the lawyers will make the details there, but the content of the proposal is clear. I'm betting on a vote on acceptance as a basis and in general, please vote. [[Registration number 9488]] [[17:18:31]] For 274 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we still have five draft laws to consider that we have included in the morning’s agenda, but given that the committees have not prepared for consideration, we have a complete discussion of issues that were scheduled for Tuesday. Thus, the honourable colleagues, the evening meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, declare closed. We didn't need the extra time. Tomorrow the Supreme Council of Ukraine will continue its plenary work from 10 a.m. to Wednesday, December 21.
