ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-14-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:02:32]] The 426 national deputies registered in the session hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Ladies and gentlemen, today is the birthday of our colleagues: Leonidas Alexandrovich's Skins, Vasil Ivanovich's Potapov and Vasil Mikhailovich's Amazing. () [[Applause]] Let us welcome them and wish them good health and remarkable success at work. Ladies and gentlemen, I give you information on the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the plenary meetings on 13 January 2011. Twenty-eight issues of the agenda have been considered. As a result of their consideration, 10 laws and 6 decrees were passed, 4 bills were passed on the basis, one bill was returned to the subject of the legislative initiative, five bills were returned to the committee for further work, and one bill was rejected. As a result of a review of President of Ukraine's proposals, one law has been passed in general, taking into account the proposals of the President of Ukraine, and one law has been rejected. Ladies and gentlemen, before we begin our practical work, let me welcome you all once again with the New Year, all people in Ukraine. And we want to be, always and everywhere, in good health. Honorable National Deputies, in accordance with article 229 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, are held on Friday from 10 to 11 o’clock “hour of questions to the Government. ” Representatives of the MPs made proposals during the "hour of questions to the Government" to receive answers to questions from the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Anatolia Volodymyrovich Mogilov. Deputy factions of the Party of the Regions, “The Block of Yulia Timoshenko – “The Father of the Father”, based on part six of article 229 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, informed the Cabinet of Ministers in advance of the questions they would like to be answered by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine in person of the Minister of Interior of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, in accordance with the Rules, will be able to communicate directly in the form of questions with the Minister of the Interior for up to 30 minutes. I invite you to the rostrum of the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Anatoly Volodymyrovich Mogilov. Please. As the minister approaches the rostrum, Sergey Sass, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-14-m0.u2	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! In accordance with the Cabinet of Ministers Act, which also defines the manner in which the “hour of questions to the Government” is conducted, it is stated that the entire government should be present at the “hour of questions”, except for those members of the Cabinet of Ministers who are on duty for important reasons. We don't get chronically, we don't comply with both the Cabinet of Ministers and the Rules. That's why. Today, the situation is the same. So, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I demand that this rule of the Rules and of the Cabinet of Ministers Act be clearly respected in the future. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-14-m0.u3	I thank you for your comments and suggestions. It's accepted. A letter is sent to the Cabinet of Ministers in accordance with the requirements of the Regulations and the Cabinet of Ministers Act. I'm sure we'll take this into account next week when it's an hour of questions to the government. It would be desirable, my dear fellow, to remind you earlier. But I accept your full attention. Anatoly Volodymyrovich, please give us one question from the Party of Regions, one from "BUT"- "Paternity". So for 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-14-m0.u4	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Honorable National MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-14-m0.u5	I ask you, Your Honor, to speak with the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine. Whoever wanted to make their questions in writing, he did, and we sent them to the Cabinet of Ministers. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-14-m0.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, the IMF has received written requests from the BUT factions and from the faction of the Party of the Regions. So I will answer these questions in writing, and I will answer other questions orally when asked. So, first question. “Shevchenkov Ryesud Kiev has decided to arrest three protest activists who took part in the Maydan v. Tax Code. The protestors are charged with the article “Intentional destruction or damage to other people’s property, ” which has caused great damage. In particular, detainees are subject to damage to the granite coverage of Maidan Independence. Is it not absurd for such actions by law enforcement authorities after the President of Ukraine and the Prime Minister, who agreed to their demands, as evidenced by their subsequent public statements and actions, to communicate with the rallyers? You will not deny, then, that legislation is effective if it is just?" I brought back the original question we were asked. The answer to that question. The right of Ukrainian citizens to assemble peacefully without weapons and to hold assemblies, rallies, raids, and demonstrations is an integral right. Government authorities and local self - government authorities are notified of such measures at the proper time. Restrictions on the exercise of this right can only be imposed by the court in individual cases. This is the standard enshrined in the Constitution of Ukraine (art. 39). Participants in public action are allowed to protest and do everything — I stress again — to do everything except what is forbidden by law. I would like to remind myself that the prohibited activities under the Criminal Code and the Administrative Code are related to killings, rapes, serious bodily harm, bodily harm, property damage, acts of bullying, including minor street blockages, the blocking of public authorities, and so on. The law enforcement authorities are obliged to respond in principle to any wrongdoing committed by citizens, regardless of political or other beliefs. The law is one for all! And that's a slogan that we've had a lot of stock under. This slogan in the state since last year in the state is being implemented and will be implemented. According to Ukrainian legislation, the responsibility for possible violations of public order and damages in the event of material damage rests with the organizers of all measures. [[Decision No.2028 of the Cabinet of Ministers from 1998 and No.753 from 20008.]] While holding a stake on the Independence Course, the police took action in accordance with their legal obligations to maintain the rule of law. The police have experience and are already able to identify all violations of the rule of law that allow participants in mass action. Despite ongoing preventive and explanatory work among the organizers and stakeholders of the action to uphold the rule of law, on November 22, 2010, the traffic movement in the central part of Kiev was blocked. This is a criminal offence. As a result, on 23 November last year a criminal case was committed on the basis of the crime “group violation of public order”. [[Article 293 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine]] faces. persons who have committed this crime are known and are being investigated in time. It should be recalled that the organizers of the campaign were four public organizations, the leaders of which, according to the legislation in force in Ukraine, are also responsible for such actions. In spite of the lack of information from the initiators about tents, more than a hundred metal rings have been killed in the granite coverage of Maidan Independence, literally 132. Any conscious citizen realizes it's also a crime, it's a damage to someone else's property. That is, the organizers did not take sufficient steps to stop the wrongdoing, but contributed to the primary act during the action. And I'll add that it will deliberately damage property at the discretion of independent experts, the sum of it is 230,000 dollars in damages. As a result, on December 3, a criminal case was committed for intentional property damage. The following are known directly by the performers, who are formerly the judges of the citizen. One citizen was tried three times — four years in prison. A citizen is twice a judge, three and a half years behind bars. And another citizen involved in this case spent eight years behind bars. One of the persons listed is detained and detained, charged, and two others searched. On December 25, last year, the above - mentioned criminal cases are united in one instance, the investigation is ongoing and the case is brought to trial. In addition, two cars belonging to legal and physical persons were damaged during the blockage. After this. In this case, a criminal case has been committed for car damage, the investigation has been completed, and the case has been brought before the Shevchenkov District Court of Kiev. Other details of these matters I have no right to make public. Second question. “The Simferopol Railway Court passed a sentence of twelve employees of the militia’s line department at the railway station. The prosecutor's office has proven, and the court has confirmed the guilt of former law enforcement officers in the abuse of office and in excess of authority, and six ex-Militaries have also received bribes. For these crimes, nine coups are punishable by restrictions of freedom, three are deprivations of liberty, but they are freed from trial. Taking into account the unique facts of crimes committed by internal affairs officials or the Ministry's complex of measures or even programmes to overcome corruption in your ranks, to clean them up from random people and to warn them of such cases?” That's a question. Answer. The opposite of what 17 former members of the line department at Simferopol station were involved in criminal responsibility, were committed during the sixth to eighth years and discovered in March of the eighth year by our internal security service. It was with these materials that the Crimean Transportation Prosecutor’s Office violated this criminal case. All of these workers are dismissed from internal affairs for discrediting. A number of leaders have been drawn to disciplinary responsibility. According to the Simferopol Railway District Court, six former employees were sentenced to actual terms of imprisonment, and about eight more sentences were passed on trial terms, including five for bribery. Regarding three employees, the prosecutor’s office has closed the case in connection with their absence from the crime scene. During the past year, the issue of the rule of law among internal affairs officials was discussed at three meetings of the IMF College. As a result, additional measures have been taken to ensure that employees of the Ministry of Justice and Human Rights, Citizens, Respect and Honor, and the dignity of each individual. Particular attention is paid to increasing the responsibilities of departmental managers in the conduct of subordinates. On March 26, last year, I issued an order to take the most severe measures of disciplinary action for workers who violate the rule of law, rights and freedoms of citizens. There are still some results to be used. Yes, during the tenth year, the number of extraordinary events in the internal affairs units decreased by 15 percent. Almost that many, 15 percent, have been reduced by the number of criminal cases committed in relation to police officers. However, this situation does not satisfy us. That's why we started reforming the IMF. His goal is to optimize management equipment, introduce new approaches to performance assessment, improve financial and social security for militias. The final result is to increase the motivation of the police, to encourage them to be honest and self-sufficient in their service. Now, about overcoming corruption. We have developed a project on anti-corruption measures in the 2011-2015 IMF system that are discussed at the December meeting of the IMF College, which will be approved. We hope that the activities of the program in the complex with other aspects of the work will help to overcome corruption in the IMF system and to clean it up. We also consider it necessary to reform the education system as part of the fight against corruption. According to our initiative, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has ordered the government to conduct an experiment in the preparation of experts for the Ministry of Internal Affairs. Now our experts are going to learn from the trainee-military-trainer scheme. This year, appropriate training programs will be replaced and, as an experiment, students will necessarily serve in the internal armies. I'm sure that these approaches to the education system will allow us to reduce the number of people who get into the police by accident. And we're going to be able to put together people who have a strong motivation for service to largely rule out the corruption component in it. This will increase the professionalism of future officers. Question three. "A wide public opinion in society has resulted in a resonant murder in Odessa by the deputy district council, the head of the district organization of the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs of Korobczynski. Can you tell us about the course of investigation and the prospects for uncovering this crime within the limits of the preservation of the mystery of the investigation?" Answer. On January 5, 2011, in Odessa, an unidentified person using firearms was deliberately murdered by an entrepreneur named Alejandro Leonidovich. According to the fact, on the same day, the HUMSC’s office in Odessa violated a criminal case on the grounds of the crime “intentional killing, ” part one of article 115 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine. It has been established that the victim has led the Council of the Interstro Industrial Construction Group since 2003. Since 2007, there have been ongoing conflicts with business partners and business - related structures in Korobczynski. Yes, in July 2008, Korobczynski, during a meeting at the office, caused bodily harm to the head of the Basal government. There is no violation of criminal evidence of this fact. [[For unfathomable reasons]] For almost two years. Only after the change of leadership did we break the case this summer. In order to expose the killing of Korobchinsky, a task force was created from the central and district personnel, who are working on a number of versions that are primarily related to its commercial activities. A composite composite portrait of a likely criminal identified by his adjectives. The course of the investigation and its disclosure is under control in the management of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. Next question. "In the last year before New Year's, in an extended college, you stressed that the priority of reforming the system of internal affairs bodies should be to respect the rights and freedoms of citizens. In this regard, please inform us what steps you have taken after this statement have already been taken as minister to prevent the mass violations of human rights during their detention and detention in the police departments. Have you conducted an internal audit of your subjects’ rights and freedoms of detained citizens? Could you inform about some of the first results, or perhaps there are some positive developments in these issues already?" I would like to emphasize that in the last college I am in the presence of media representatives, I have stated that protection of citizens' rights and freedoms is a priority in the work of the police. The very benefit of the goal of revealing any crime does not even justify a small violation of human rights and freedoms. I would like to emphasize that the activities of the police and the provision of legal rights and the interests of citizens, including those detained, were recognised as priority not only in the last college mentioned here but also in the beginning of the year. That's what's going on with the changes in the structure of the internal affairs bodies, reviewing their functions, updating the legal framework. In particular, in order to prevent human rights violations, the Ministry of Internal Affairs has ordered that changes be made to the instructions on how to organize the activities of another part of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. This decree of 1 January of this year provides for mandatory extradition to citizens who are brought to the internal affairs authorities, a memorial that sets out their rights with reference to legislation and international law. An individual’s algorithm is also defined in case of a violation of his or her constitutional rights. Each detained person informed of the possibility of applying to the European Court of Human Rights in case of dissatisfaction with the results of an appeal to State institutions. In addition, the order approves the requirements for the equipment of the premises, the detention rooms, and the delivery of spare parts. In 2010, the number of rooms in line with the recommendations of the European Committee against Torture increased by almost half, from 237 to 347. At the same time, out of the 56 million dollars needed to bring such rooms into European standards, there are over 1.5 thousand, only 976 thousand dollars, or 1.7 percent of the need. These, as well as the cost of our capital repairs, have video surveillance, sewerage, and so forth. Now, an example of video surveillance, you know that in the city of Feodosia last year, through a name-based video surveillance system, we've detected violations of police co-workers for whom they're involved in criminal responsibility. A little bit better funding for construction and repair work at the IVC. The target is 9.8 million dollars, a number of institutions in Kirovgrad, Kharkiv have been redesigned in Mikolayivsk, Hersonsk region, and four special facilities in the Kyiv region have been redesigned. In addition, during the past year, current repairs were carried out in the vast majority of ITTs. 307 out of the 480s. For reasons of insufficient financing for repairs, however, the issue of ventilating, water supply, and sewage networks, isolated toilets, souls, walking backyards, and so forth remain problematic. For this reason, last year we were suspended from 59 police stations and 22 rooms for second-hand detainees. In fact, all police departments and detention rooms have cell phones that allow them to report human rights violations to the local authorities of internal affairs. In order to prevent illegal influence on internal affairs, we conduct monthly targeted tests. In addition, physicians in the health care facilities carry out medical examinations to detect diseases and bodily harm when persons are placed in emergency rooms and rooms. All available facts are carefully analyzed and service checks are carried out when needed. The measures that have been taken have helped to reduce the number of extraordinary events involving persons held in special forces. So the number of deaths has been reduced from 30 to 25 in similar years. Next question. “Lastly, in the context of the orientation of the IMF system on the European development model, there is a question of reviewing approaches to the assessment of police work. The parable in the tongues was the concealment of claims of crime from accounting, the orientation of correct static indicators. You yourself have repeatedly called attention to this in your speeches. What measures are being taken to change the criteria for the assessment of police work to minimize such phenomena and to guide them to the real protection of citizens' rights?" The purpose of today’s changes in the IMF system is indeed to redesign it according to a European model. In highly developed countries, the crime rate is higher, the crime rate is much lower, and the protection and confidence of citizens in law enforcement is higher than in Ukraine. In Germany, in particular, the crime detection rate is within 50 percent, and the police have one of the first places to trust. Crime is known to be affected by several hundred factors, including economic political, social, ideological, and so on. In terms of the impact of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, it is likely that a little more than 10 percent of these factors will be involved. Why is the increase in crime considered to be the result of internal affairs? Today, this is an objective and socially motivated process. This can be confirmed by the increase in the number of thefts. You realize that in recent years, the Honorable Supreme Council has passed the Law on the Reduction of Criminal Responsibility, the number of crimes has increased dramatically, and we've had a surge in reported thefts because they've lowered the billboard. This year's adopted Tax Code and adopted budget, this bill raises again, there's over a hundred dollars, and there's going to be a reduction in the number of thefts. So these are the indicators that police work doesn't really affect. In the new criteria for assessing the activities of the Ukrainian police that are currently under way, we have given up assessing work by the level of crime or the percentage of disclosure, these figures in the police data are not quite there. Stat. They will be compared to previous periods last year because this leads to unethical divisional activity, especially at the end of reporting periods. We've done this kind of analysis at the Ministry of Internal Affairs, and we have all of the digital militias, and they have these peaks: the end of the quarter, the end of the year, the end of the year, and so on. Among the main criteria for assessing the activities of internal affairs bodies are the provision of constitutional rights and freedoms for our citizens. And on this basis, increasing public confidence in internal affairs. Such changes in the work evaluation system allow you to give up the wrong practice of artificial control of the indicators and to provide stable, dynamic work. Identify real workload for each employee and, on this basis, optimize the current number of organs and departments. Increase the objectivity of the analysis and the reliability of forecasting the development of crime, the development of adequate measures to combat crime. When we look at the approaches to police evaluation, we coordinate our actions with other law enforcement agencies. The interdepartmental order approves the instructions on the single count of crimes. This is one of the stages in ensuring that the police respond properly to citizens' allegations of crime and events. Strengthening the prosecutorial supervision of the legality of decisions taken. Organizing the status of the state. reporting. These approaches to assessing police activity are intended to be taken into account in the process of reforming criminal justice initiated by the President of Ukraine in the preparation of proposals for changes in legislation in interaction with the public. Next question. “Separate media, quoting individual politicians, spread information about the low quality of the work of special departments in the fight against organized crime. How do you comment on such statements?" Misappreciating the activities of the special division of WHO according to the number of crimes that have been committed. I'll give you an example last year when a so-called criminal group was discovered in Odessa County, the head of which was a steamer who was carrying cars. Here's the bribes he got for transporting cars, there's a couple dozen people, and as the leader of this criminal group, there's more than 20 people, and there's more than 30 cases of bribes. That was such a criminal group. So we gave up the crime rate. These units of AIDS are tasked with the most insolent and dangerous forms of crime, as an example. This is the murder case in Odessa, which I've been talking about before, which is being discovered by WHO. Because there are intertwined and criminal manifestations, and there's an economic component. And that's why it's such a symbiosis of all of these manifestations, and I think it's up to me to investigate AIDS and this criminal case, and it's up to the WHO. Last year, 288 organized criminal groups were discovered by the U.S. Ten insolent gangs and 13 criminal organizations were sent to the bench. More than 300 million damages caused by criminal gangs have been compensated to the sufferers. The illegal activity of 12 thieves in the law, of which 8 have been issued abroad, has been suspended. 4 are held accountable in Ukraine. In the fight against corruption, 25 criminal groups with corrupt connections have been identified by the Special Units, and 19 organized groups have been documented in the area of countering the theft of funds. Yes, the city of Kiev is exposed to a criminal organization of directors of utilities and private enterprises that, during the reconstruction of the express tram line, used the rapid tram to absorb nearly 23 million dollars of budget money. Steps have been taken to strengthen the fight against the laundering of criminal incomes, to halt the activity of 31 organized groups, and to document nearly 60 of the creation of conversion centers. In the Dnipropetrov region, a criminal group consisting of seven people who, according to forged documents, acquired VAT shares, the South Mining and Enriching Unit, worth 8 and a half million dollars. In September of last year, in Dnipropetrovsk and Mikolaivian areas, a criminal case was committed and a total of 10 million dollars were arrested, counted from the United States and illegally charged to a number of Ukrainian banks, and several persons were detained. This is an example of how the law on prevention and resistance to the legalization of the laundering of proceeds obtained by criminal means works. I think that's a pretty strong argument to prove the quality of this service and the necessity of its existence. Next question. “What, in your view, is the role and location of the investigation apparatus in the system of internal affairs of Ukraine, what is the pre-trial investigation after the reform of criminal and procedural legislation?” Some of the dependence of an internal affairs investigator on executives. Organs do not always contribute to effective crime prevention. Individual managers, as it is, use the ability to influence investigators in order to achieve significant indicators. This sometimes leads to falsification of materials. We believe that in order to eliminate such a practice, it is necessary to introduce a new system of subordination of internal investigation authorities, perhaps through the establishment of a committee of inquiry at the Ministry of Internal Affairs. This topic is now being developed within the framework of the strategy that is being developed in the State in reforming the entire criminal justice system. The following units on site will thus emerge from the subordination of the city’s authorities, who actually lead the authorities. The investigation unit should be administered vertically: the investigating committee, the investigating committee at the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the investigating departments at the Horraiorgans. This will allow us to preserve the existing potential of the investigators and at the same time remove the prerequisites for the involvement of the learning body in the process of the investigators. Of course, the reform of the investigation departments should be carried out along with the reform of criminal and procedural legislation within the framework of the concept that is being developed now in the reform of criminal justice, and we have a rather complex path in line with the existing legislation on criminal matters. This stage. It's a lot of steps. The processor collects one piece of material, then the investigator turns it into a criminal case, then she's studied by the prosecutor, and then she comes to court. This system may need to be simplified in the present tense. We must ensure that the parties compete, using a key tool to protect the legitimate rights and freedoms of citizens, should ensure such a right in the course of judicial proceedings. Needs a settlement in the pretrial investigation procedure. Because I told you, it's a lot of time and a lot of stuff. Perhaps it is appropriate for us to put in place a simplified system for investigating crimes of small and medium severity. This will allow for the shortening of the deadline and speeding up of the court’s proceedings. Usually, all circumstances of such crimes are obvious and do not require a wide range of mandatory procedural actions. Let me give you an example. It may be that the damage to the case amounts to several hundred dollars, and the investigation requires several thousand dollars from the budget. Procedural status of the investigator must be increased. In my opinion, if an investigator refers to a court of law with any concern, it is only natural that he should be tried by a court of law. Of course, the prosecutor’s opinion should be taken into account. Current issues also include the granting of special status to investigators, the recognition of a special queue for their appointment, and so forth. To this end, the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Investigator is desirable. All of this will contribute to the effectiveness of ensuring the rights and freedoms of those involved in criminal proceedings. We hope that the proposals I put forward will be taken into account in the implementation of the concept of reform of criminal justice bodies. Fourth, next question. "How does the police oppose the abuse of land relations? What in legislative terms is the cause of the violation and what needs to be developed to ensure that citizens' rights are protected in this area?" In order to carry out the mandate of the President of Ukraine, the Ministry carried out a set of measures to prevent abuses in the field of land legislation. The opposites in this area have some results. [[I'm going to cancel out because I have a little bit of time left.]] The most attractive land for criminals is the land of Kiev, the land of Crimea. In particular, these are crimes related to the land of this category last year and have already been brought to justice by criminal cases concerning the head of the South Crimea Environmental Inspectorate, the Alastinian City Head, the head of the Libyan Village Council, the deputy chief architect Yalta. In total, 152 crimes have been reported in Crimea involving nearly 3,000 acres [3,000 ha] of land on the South Bank, which attract nearly 70 officials to criminal responsibility. In general, over 550 hectares of healthy recreational, conservation, historical and cultural purposes have been the subject of illegal assaults discovered last year. Crimes. Yes, a criminal case is being investigated regarding the head of the State Department of the Ivano-Frankiv region, who, according to the fact, illegally disembarking 350 hectares of land from the forest fund within the Bukovel mountain resort. The nation’s losses amount to over 60 million dollars. Similarly, in Kiev. The Dnipro River Coastal Strip, an area of about 1 hectare, damages 3.5 million dollars. That is, we believe that some results have been achieved in this direction of fighting land abuse. Next question. “Last year there were many complaints about the work of the Departments of the State Automobile Inspection. In recent times there have been rumors about the overall Draconian methods of government inspectors ’ work with regard to violators in the future. To this end, in the work of these departments, what are we to expect in the current year, how will the activities of the State Inspectorate of Reform in the IMF system be affected?" We all know the high rate of death and trauma on the highways. The main goal of our work together is to protect and preserve life, I think. May I continue?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-14-m0.u7	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-14-m0.u8	The protection, preservation, and health of citizens, and the safety of road traffic. In these ways, we are always open. The DAI Department launched a range of proposals last year, I stress once again, proposals from all citizens of Ukraine to the draft new Road Traffic Regulations. We realize that existing ones have some flaws, and then we have some, so to speak, negative phenomena on the road. Department.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-14-m0.u9	Microphone, please. Anatoly Volodymyrovich, you finish this question and then we'll move on to a question from the deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-14-m0.u10	That was the last question.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-14-m0.u11	Dear colleagues, the minister of the interior, gave answers to written questions. People’s deputies are asked to sign up for oral questions. It's recording. Please give me the names of the national deputies on the information board. Valerius Beales, Communist faction, please. You have maybe two minutes or something.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-14-m0.u12	Dear colleagues, I would like to ask the first question, not to the Minister, but to all of us. In general, the Ukrainian Ministry of Investigation is bringing more than 300,000 criminal cases every year, if I am not mistaken, and those with episodes are about half a million, yes, Anatoly Vladimirovic. So I have a question for all of us, how long does it take to stand on the rostrum to answer every particular case in each particular criminal case and every episode. I am of the opinion that the right of the Supreme Council and the right of the people's deputies to invite ministers and prosecutors here is unconditional, but in any event everyone must do his job. Now for the question. Dear Anatoly Vladimirović, please calm down, because there are too many references to me as a national MP and as a committee. Two questions: the first is the reduction of personnel, what are the prospects.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-14-m0.u13	Give me a chance, there's 2 minutes, another 1 minute, please, to form questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-14-m0.u14	Yes, and the second question is the pension scheme of the staff. The three questions: age, service, and retirement are what people approach us every day. Please respond.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-14-m0.u15	Thank you for asking. These are really very sick subjects that are now concerned with the diversity. I met in the central office and with the heads of the HUD, and they explained it to the entire staff. The reduction in the MVA system will take place in stages, and we cannot afford a large number of people to be removed from the system immediately. Therefore, no one, when we reduce or reduce the size of our personality, is reducing reception, and those who approach retirement age will be fired. The age of retirement for militia personnel will not be reduced. The only thing that's going to change is we're going to have, I think we have to do it, we have a lot in the militia of people who have concessional benefits. I think it's unreasonable, it's understandable to the militia. I explain that there are many categories in the Ministry of Internal Affairs in which, for various reasons, in different years, the service was considered to be a year and a year and a half. This included all operational units, district police inspectors, the special forces of Berkuta, Sokola, UBOP and, as a result, virtually all units were provided with such concessional services. I. We discussed this issue on the panel and discussed it with the district leaders. This is understood by all that seniority should be limited to special units and units carrying out intelligence activities and those working with explosive or radiation materials. These categories of persons are prescribed, they remain and remain part of the concessional units of the convoy and those who work in the Air Force, because for 20 years in the Air Force, he spends almost a third of his life in the Air Force. In the shadows, let's say. Behind the bars, speaking Ukrainian. Therefore, this category of persons will be reduced, but this is. However, we intend to increase the financial content of the remaining workers. The level of cash will gradually rise.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-14-m0.u16	Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-14-m0.u17	Let me prove it. This year we have reduced admission to our schools because I believe it is very necessary for the Ministry of Internal Affairs to have 16 higher education institutions that issue specialists. Well, it's not exactly the right level. Higher education has been declared, and the level of this education does not really correspond to what we would like to have. Therefore, a reduction in reception, a gradual retirement of those who reach retirement age, but also an increase in the financial content of those who remain. We need to understand that the only person who will have a normal salary will be to work properly and be motivated to work in the police force.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-14-m0.u18	Thank you. Sergey Shevchuk, Faction of the Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-14-m0.u19	I'll pass the word to the head of the Special Committee of Law Enforcement, Yuri Prokopczuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-14-m0.u20	Yuri Prokopchuk, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-14-m0.u21	Thank you. Dear Mr. Minister! Now, you said on account of the increase in theft, and this seems to have something to do with the lowering of the standard in the money expression. Well, it's not this year, it's in the past. By the way, it's initiated and supported by everyone. The thefts have increased because today, including the government, everything is done to get the people back in the '90s to come back. He can't survive, and this government is doing nothing to raise, as they say, his condition. And all those people who were supposed to investigate, who got fired, and so now there are a lot of pending cases. Companion Beaz correctly asked the question: Today, the best experts from your organs have gone, by the way, which are not calculated, which. So far, as they say, inflation eats up everything. Are you counting on them? Will you, instead of hiding the unpaid payments that are increasing today, and the command given, not show your U.S.A., or will they return? Because it's already two.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-14-m0.u22	Please. May I have your attention, please? Calm down! Please, Anatoly Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-14-m0.u23	Can I? Let me answer that, comrades. Let me answer that. Well, you're very emotional, and I'll tell you what. At the initial stage, when violent reform activities were developed and so on, in fact, people in the Ministry of Internal Affairs began to write reports on retirement. At present, most of these people are returning with reports: “Take us back”. I explain why. Early retirement for a police officer is inconvenient. I've explained this to the staff and I'll explain to you why. Because whether we want it or not, inflation in the country is around, like, 10 percent every year. Right? That's right. A fairly high pension is 5,000. A person retires, 10 per cent in a year is subtracted, 4 and a half is left, another 2 years is going to be 4,000 and so on. So the more a police officer works, the better he gets all the time. His wages are rising. So let me tell you this: we have police officers coming back with reports and writing them. No, that's how I like the approach, they say, "Who's to blame?" and so on. And where they drove the economy, which is now going to go up, when it's going up, and there's no income. And last year, notice, not in the past -- last year, money was even worse. You're talking emotionally. I'm sorry for the emotion.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-14-m0.u24	Dear colleagues, please! We're working today for the last day, we're finishing the session. Honorable colleagues, either we ask questions and listen to the answer, or let us stop. I'm asking you to calm down. Viachaslav Oliynik. That's right, isn't it? Viacheslav Olijnik, “BUT – Fatherland” faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-14-m0.u25	Olinik Viktor Stepanovich, I ask you to give the floor to Zabzaluku Romano Omelanovic.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-14-m0.u26	Roman Zabzaluk, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-14-m0.u27	I have two questions right now. Why is it that, even with open statistics in Ukraine, in 2010, there was a surge in crime, organizational and structural measures are not being implemented to increase the state of staff in the criminal investigation departments, to increase their material and technical activities as a whole? Well, what's more, is that young people's footage is leaking right out of this area of work. In addition, it's a catastrophic situation with the material and technical provision of district militias. At the same time, we see a picture of it being strengthened quantitatively and technically, so-called, special units, which today can speak boldly as the gendarmerie and look, if necessary, at the cost of the budget that purchases today are produced in luxury. For example, the vests were delivered at a price for several years.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-14-m0.u28	Complete the question, please. A microphone to complete the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-14-m0.u29	At the price of a thousand 804 bracelets, the same bracelets already this year suddenly cost six thousand 596, in a similar way. Yeah, yeah, yeah, it's on contracts. Lanos at a double price, why are such purchases under way?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-14-m0.u30	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-14-m0.u31	I thank you for asking. You're not an expert, I guess. Armor vests have different degrees of protection, protection. So, I'm ready, I'm all of these materials, these statements, I've sent them all to the Attorney General's Office for evaluation. And they're going to give him a normal assessment of what he's doing. Now on the Lanses you're talking about. Actually, "Lanas," well, it's about eight or ten thousand more expensive than on the net. But these Lanses are already equipped with sound systems. Lighting, signalling, radio stations and all others and their prices are 10 per cent lower than those proposed. These are all la la and words, as I am reading the Supreme Council's Auditorium, where it is written that the money allocated to the euro is wrongly spent. I report that no money has been allocated to the euro this year. Last year, the Ministry of Interior received 4 million grevens, bought Shkoda “Octavia” and “Fabia” vehicles at the coopry, and conducted several missions, seminars with Polish and German experts on the Euro event. All of it. And it's some kind of purposeless use. I am behind every position that takes place with regard to the purchase of these items, there are representatives of the CIA, Bepa and so on, and I am prepared to report for each position. And it says, "Trukam instrument." Wait. I know what you're talking about. I answer to you. The TruCam instrument, which costs a pretty large sum, is an American device that has a laser warning system that has everything on it, and all this evidence to the court right now. So a friend on the Internet hangs a paper that he thinks is worth 15,000 bracelets. He took it. Objectively. Based on this online publication, they said, wait, here's 15,000 bracelets, and you bought it for $5,000. What is it? There's a deep breach. Show me someone who buys less at a price. His only supplier is in Hungary, Europe. We bought these instruments from him. This instrument allows us to fully establish, from the point of view of our laws, the evidentiary evidence of the driver's guilt. All of it. Period. On all of these matters.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-14-m0.u32	Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-14-m0.u33	To the Public Prosecutor's Office, they will take a procedural decision. Period. And that's all the insinuation.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-14-m0.u34	Thank you. Ivan Popescu, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-14-m0.u35	Please pass the word to Alexander Mikolayovich Pecklusenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-14-m0.u36	Alexander Pecklesenko, microphone, Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-14-m0.u37	I have a question for you next. First. As you see during your activities, the dynamics of the country's criminogenic situation have changed. Second. I'm sure as a minister you have your opinion on reform. Your attitude towards the municipal police, your attitude towards the sheriffs' institute. The third question that also concerns me and my colleagues and all voters. Today, there are many letters and statements about the theft of credit unions. It's a crime of the century. You could personally control all credit union crimes and personally monitor the investigation of these resonance crimes.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-14-m0.u38	Thank you for asking. Thank you. I'll start upstairs. I do. I do. Unethically, we need to evaluate our work, of course. With regard to statistics of general criminal nature. Last year, I would like to stress that this growth and crime reduction is affected by the police by interest by 10-15, the rest by economic downturn, demographic dynamics, sociology is a lot of reasons. So last year's growth took place all of the crime that the comrades are talking about, with one type of crime, with theft, and the second kind is fraud, that's if there's a small amount, there's only a few thousand there all over the country. The thefts were only due to the fact that a plank of 900 bracelets had been reduced to 60 bracelets, from 60 bracelets and above, a criminal case from 900 and above. That's where the whole range came in. In the coming year, the plank is rising, and the number of thefts will drop objectively. This is about dynamics. Now, about the municipal police. In principle, I think that the very many issues that are being addressed at the city level are the district, the inspector and the PPSniki, in principle, the person being the measure of a city. And he has to determine how many he needs, because in five years, when he chooses the measure or the head of the area, as the militia does, much depends on his ratings, too, right? We therefore believe that these functions of public order can be given to the municipal police. Now about. I'm in a hurry because time is short on credit unions. We have put a proposal on top that credit unions should be buried at all. This is a structure that has very little positive impact on the country's economy, and we have cases where thousands of people, thousands of victims, multifaceted criminal cases and reparations so on a major issue. These are financial structures that do not have any responsibility for something that they appear to have to make a procedural decision. I'm a simple piece of paper. I'm not making a procedural decision, not a procedural one, but a legislative decision needs to be taken by you. But we will take such initiatives. And I'll answer your question about the search.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-14-m0.u39	Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-14-m0.u40	This year, we spent 40 per cent more than last year, by number, on car, radio, vests and all. And in search of, among other things, priorities, there are a lot of problems. In today’s world, the time was running out when fists, hands, and fists were opened. Time's up. Everything he's explained to all his subordinates is that no one can be touched with a finger, no one can even be touched. The only way to discover is through technology, and this is what we need to buy, and we're doing it, and we've acquired 40 percent more than just units of technology, and I'm not talking about finance.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-14-m0.u41	Viacheslav Koval, faction of "Our Ukrainian People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-14-m0.u42	Mr. Secretary, you have declared the principle of the work of your ministry "one law for all". This can be welcomed, I doubt, I think that Ukrainian citizens are very doubtful that this principle is working in our country. But let me make up my question. A year ago, we started 2010 under the blue flags where the Marijin Park was blocked, the destroyed lawn, where across from the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine beat drums, where the street of Gruszewski was covered, and all of this was the activity of the Party of Regions. Does the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine now study those measures of the Party of the Regions, the damage they have done to the public and social property of the city of Kiev? Are you planning to break criminal cases the way you did criminal cases against entrepreneurs who were in Maidan? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-14-m0.u43	I tell you again: during my term of office, I do not remember the representatives of the Party of the Regions covering the streets and roads. Therefore, the claim of this fact is not with me at least. If there's any material in the past few years, there's no material. It's a question for the predecessors. Now, as far as you're talking about party membership. I'm taking your business from the economy. Now, I am telling you through the economy this year, who is involved in the political forces, I am reporting to you, this year, the officials of the various political forces of the local authorities, and so on, are taking place this year: representatives of the BUT -- 73, representatives of the Party of the Regions -- 115, representatives of the NS-NS -- 38. [[We understand. We touch others, we don't touch them.]] I can family, yes, these people, if I say so, will be after the court's decision. That's so there's no explanation for that. Now what. There are Communists, don't worry. All right, listen to me. About Maidan, where you're talking, there's activists being attracted and so on. Once again, people all have, citizens, the right to peaceful action. However, they are prohibited from violating administrative and criminal laws. So the person who hurts the car, the person who crosses the transport route, is the person who's going to blow up some property, is going to be responsible. The police have every opportunity to fix this not on the day we get out of the crowd, all of these people will be and all will be held accountable. I told you that those who organize this would be held accountable. Because whoever organizes this is responsible for ensuring that its citizens do not violate the law. Let me give you an example of not a long time ago. In the middle of the street, barrels were placed on which it was written, “Owning of the People’s Deputy” – you can’t seem to touch it. People were told that knocking in barrels was a minor hooliganism under the walls of residential homes.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-14-m0.u44	Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-14-m0.u45	Tomorrow, let's put down the mountain "shit" in Ukrainian language and set up a table that "is a product of the vitality and ownership of the people's MP". And let it lie in Kiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-14-m0.u46	Yes, Jephthah Zvegilski is referring the right to the question of Jaroslav Sukh, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-14-m0.u47	Dear Anatoly Volodymyrovich!
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-14-m0.u48	I have a note, just like you. I'm saying shut up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-14-m0.u49	the retention of legislation by the Ministry of Internal Affairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-14-m0.u50	How many times have you approached me and there were no people present and asked to speak? Why are you making this noise? I'm asking you to calm down, because this is New Year's Eve, please calm down.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-14-m0.u51	Volodymyr Mikhailovich! I'll be with the noisemakers myself in a minute. The enforcement of legislation by the authorities of the Ministry of Internal Affairs also calls for compliance with social policy requirements, creating conditions for the safe and efficient work of your employees. If you were to evaluate the living conditions of your employees as a minister? You were talking today about the construction work of the offices, especially the post office, the investigators, the operatives. Do you need the help of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to improve the housing of our militias and to upgrade the material and technical base? And the second question is state inspection. I don't think the practice of total embezzlement of this unit is conducive to increased authority and attractiveness. And those “broads” that are now roaring here, shaking their hands with their twenties, and then walking their feet chewing, telling. Remember, then, that Chernobyl was the first firefighters and the State Inspectorate to pay for their health and lives when they were evacuated. Are you planning to resume your posts, station posts? It'll help.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-14-m0.u52	I'm going to ask everyone, honourable national MPs, let's stick to, well, the normal formulation of questions and without any kind of effort, to say something as delicately as possible against each other. I'm asking you very much, come on. Please, Anatoly Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-14-m0.u53	Well, first of all, what's going on with the social protection of the police. He's terrible today, you know. So we need quite a lot of money to improve the social conditions of our employees. It's both housing and social protection in terms of normal pensions, and free travel, and so on. And I would, if I could, ask for support in amending the budget, we would do so because the budget is budgeted. That's absolutely right, the office space that's given to the staff member, and if he's served 20-25 years, he's got it and he's working with him. It's about GAI. With all the complaints about this service, I'll tell you this: the G.A.I.'s most dangerous police service, the largest number of police officers are suffering from criminals. That's the first one. Second. The conditions of traffic in the streets, imagine what kind of air it is, it doesn't allow, it doesn't allow. With everything that I believe to be largely, not to a large extent, but to a large extent, it is our own fault that we have such employees of the GAI. Most drivers think it's their duty to try to put some money in the trunk so it won't be brought to justice. When we create an intolerance in society, it will be perfectly normal. Now, with regard to GAI posts. Deeply convinced that GAI posts need to be reinvigorated, but not in such large quantities, but the GAI posts are needed on the roads. First, these are the places where long-range drivers can stop, and the police can be protected. Next step. These posts are needed, it may be tens, twos for the whole country, but they must be equipped with appropriate means of modern fixation. Let me give you an example. In Kiev, there's a system, a modern speed control system, a definition of the car numbers that are available. [[A bull, I think, is called a post.]] During the month of work, more than 150 vehicles were found.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-14-m0.u54	Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-14-m0.u55	The 20 vehicles that were wanted and the speeding regime there were over a thousand. So it's got to be 20 police officers. The 5 that stand there are not able to record what's leaking the technology that's been taking off until now. Therefore, we must follow such a course, setting up fasts equipped with the last word of the technique. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-14-m0.u56	Antonina Boloura, “BUT” faction, “Fatherland”, please, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-14-m0.u57	Please give the word to Mr. Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-14-m0.u58	Vladimir Alexandrovich Yavorowski, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-14-m0.u59	Honorary Minister Vasa’s woodcut, bounced off the mosquitoes with an axe, cut off two acres [2 ha] of forest. You'll see where I'm going with this. You know a story with an outstanding Ukrainian writer, a national award winner, Maria Mathios, who is being chased by our so-called Ukrainian militia today. The Henprosecutor has refused to have anything to do with this, which means it's your department's business. The police haven't washed the blood off their hands yet for the murder of Gongadze, but it's a closed case for the murder of journalist Vasil Kleyntiev, and also for Helen Bilozerska, who was abused by the militia. What's going on in the country? Why don't we just put a militiaman next to Maria Mathios and not let her write at all? Then you'll have less work to do.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-14-m0.u60	Thank you for asking. I answer to you on Mary Mathios, who, according to one of the national MPs, she spoke abusively. He wrote a statement to the Public Prosecutor's Office on this matter. Wait. That's not a question for me. They've filed a statement with the D.A.'s office. The D.A. then sent this paper to ask this citizen, so to speak, a famous poet, as you say. The paper was sent to Lviv, where it was gone, and then it came to Kiev. The address they pointed out, she doesn't live there. A policeman has come. I said, is this where you live or not? The answer was no, and the paper was sent back to the prosecutor’s office. Such persecution. You're the one blowing the soap bubble out of nothing. Now, with regard to Biluzir, so to speak, interesting, in general, you have an original path. Look, last February, in the central streets of Kiev, they're sweeping the store with smoke checkers and paint bulbs. In time, Bourzir's blog, as you say, appears a picture of the whole thing. The legal question, to ask her, was that she had taken and clarified the matter. Legally? Totally. Not legal? Thus, according to the Code of Criminal Procedure, there is no separate code of “journalist” and it states that the police are obliged to identify all persons who can give this information. It's the second episode with him. Now it's the last episode of this fact. On 1 January, in the middle of the night, a bottle of incendiary mixture is placed in the apartment on the first floor of the house, and the house is marked with an incendiary mixture bottle. This is an office in one of the parties, and I'm not gonna say any to keep the commercials from doing it. It's burning this thing. Two hours later, a video of this peach appears on the Internet. Let's say this is a message. This photo came from the website of a Bilozir citizen. It's legal to ask her for photos, documents, because she took pictures.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-14-m0.u61	Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-14-m0.u62	Is it legal or not? It's legal. Now that she's got the information, I might as well say, in a frame. I'll tell you something else. I'm telling you, on the sites that she took out there, we take out the napalm-making instruction. It says on her website how to cook napalm. What are we going to do with this democracy? Now, as for Ivano-Frankowska, where they're blowing up, there's political power. Or someone. They're holding a citizen who's got a machine gun. Hundreds more. Wait, I'm not saying what kind of political power this is. ( and) [[Noise in the Hall]]
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-14-m0.u63	May I have your attention, Your Honor? ( and) [[Noise in the Hall]]
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-14-m0.u64	So this citizen himself explains that he bought the machine, says who. It's number one.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-14-m0.u65	May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-14-m0.u66	Second. He's got a gun in his house, and you're talking about throwing it away. And the second one, who had his gun removed, is being tried in Kharkiv for stealing eight assault rifles from a military unit by the age of six. ( and) [[Noise in the Hall]] There's this company all the same. And you're talking. Not me, for me.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-14-m0.u67	Thank you, thank you. ( and) [[Noise in the Hall]] In the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-14-m0.u68	I don't think it's possible for people with guns and guns to hang around the country. And now the last thing I want to say. These are the same people, we already have information that 22 people, when protests are planned, are planning a bloodbath in the city of Kiev. Bloodbath. They're saying that we're ready to create action, then to show the world what we're doing in Ukraine. I warn everyone, we'll document all these facts, the power and the means to do so, and then everyone who did it will be accountable to the law. Let's prove that the law is one for all.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-14-m0.u69	Thank you. Andrew Pavlovski, “BUT — Fatherland, ” please ask a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-14-m0.u70	Andrew Pavlovsky, "Fatherland". Please give the floor to the deputy Alexander Steshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-14-m0.u71	Alexander Steshenko, turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-14-m0.u72	Minister, let's try without bubbles and calm down. You know, I don't think you're going to deny that without the support of the population to win, at least to shorten, crime just can't be. What do we have today? Statistics cited by the Eurasian Institute of Freedoms, the level of trust among the administrative authorities, and the Ministry of Internal Affairs reach up to 4 percent. Next. On November 4, the European Court of Human Rights of Samardak v. Ukraine, the court found a violation by Ukraine of article 3 of the European Convention in connection with the cruel and inhumane conduct of police personnel. I'm opening the facts. The January 5, 2011, issue of Awake! And what I'm reading here is, you know.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-14-m0.u73	Complete the question, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-14-m0.u74	Kalinsky, Valery Frost, 48 years old, first group disabled. Police officers were killed to death. What do we do about this when we overcome this gap between man and his people?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-14-m0.u75	Thank you. I don't know what sociology you've been taking, and where you're taking it, at the beginning of this year, the sociology that you've been doing: the level of confidence in the militia was about 3 percent in the country, now it's up to 11 percent. I don't mean to say it's all my fault, it's not. Now, about the article you said. Mogilov is not a wizard, Mogilov does not re-education 300,000 personnel in a year, who for many years have been forced to make indicators in any way. I said that the discovery of the most serious crime does not justify the slightest violation of human rights and freedoms, the smallest, the most difficult: murder and all. Now, about what you're talking about. On this point, we investigated, I insisted, these two employees were arrested, extended the whole district, and all the leaders there who tried to guide their people were taking the most stringent measures. This is already becoming a rule in the police force, and everyone understands that everyone will be responsible for a minor violation. And there's no other way. And the DAI, too.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-14-m0.u76	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the "hour of questions to the government" has been completed. I thank the deputies who have both written and directly asked questions to the Minister of Internal Affairs, and the fact that the Minister of Internal Affairs, as I believe, was open to us, and perhaps this is explained by the emotional nature of his speech. I think we should continue this dialogue.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-14-m0.u77	Thank you all. Ready to communicate at any time.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-14-m0.u78	Thank you. Honorable National MPs. On Friday, we have a limited time in accordance with the Rules of Procedure for Deputies’ Enquiries. Dear colleagues, let us arrange for our further organization of work, as we have agreed on this position on the Conciliation Council. In 12 hours, we work in a state-of-the-art mode to address the issues that are being addressed today. At 12 o'clock, let's move on to the question, the report of the Human Rights Commissioner of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and then finish the session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So we don't have to take a break at 12 o'clock. It's about 13-13. 10 we're going to finish our work. No objections? Well, let's get to the point, then, Ivan Grigorovitch, let's take a look. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to make a few questions for you: Andrew School to the President of Ukraine on the political persecution of Ukrainian writer Maria Matios from the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine and the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. Please vote. [[11:12:14]] For a hundred and Request supported. I would like to vote on the request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[11:12:33]] For-163 Request not supported. Dear colleagues, I think we'll have a further request, an offer to send it directly to the Attorney General's Office. I think there's a proposal in the text. Well, the MPs already know how to implement this mechanism. So I would ask everyone to calm down. Eugene Zarkov to the President of Ukraine on the cooperation of the state structure - the national, and the only official channel of Ukraine with a commercial project, which represents the non-citizens of Ukraine and the inadmissibility of social thinking and morality, not the resident of Ukraine, as well as the financing of such projects at budget costs. I'll put it to a vote in favour of the request. [[11:13:29]] For-36 Request not supported. Olega Lalashka to the President of Ukraine for the cessation of violations by officials of the constitutional rights of Ukrainian citizens who are party to protests against the Tax Code. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[11:13:59]] For-59 Request not supported. Sergey Teryochina to the President of Ukraine on the manifestations of corruption by members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, in particular on the placement of a scientific and practical comment to the Code of Taxation of Ukraine, edited by Mikoli Azarov for money. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[11:14:32]] For-72 Request not supported. Lesi Orobec to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the falsification of the Committee on Science and Education by the National Deputies Maxim Lutsky and Catherine Samojlik. Oleg Tishchenka to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, on the responsibility of the organizers and perpetrators of the attack on the Ukrainian National Deputies by bodily harm of various degrees of severity in the sessional chamber of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 16 December 2010. Andrija Pavlovski to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the non-implementation of existing legislation on informing citizens about the presence of genetically modified organisms in food products. Arsenija Yatsenuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the reasons for the failure and acceleration of the introduction to the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the 2011 National Economic and Social Development Programme project. Vasil Pétovka to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine - Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine for the transfer from the Mokachevo Locomotive depot of the State-owned Territorial Union of the Lviv Railway, the complex of stadium buildings. Vladimir Yavorowski to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the adventurous offer of the Minister of Education and Science, Youth and Sports of Ukraine of Dmitry Tobacco to reduce the state order when entering higher education institutions by 42 per cent compared to 2010, which is a gross violation of the Ukrainian Constitution on the right of citizens to obtain higher education free of charge, except that the introduction will lead to commercialization of higher education. Catherine Vasuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the urgent need to resolve urgent issues regarding the construction and reconstruction of preschool and school facilities in the Volin region. Eugene Kzarkov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine to ensure that the law enforcement agencies of the city of Zaporozhye are fully investigated and that the perpetrators are punished for undermining Joseph Stalin’s monument. Catherine Samoylik to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need for urgent measures to eliminate the submergment of the village of Nova Majacha in the Herson region. Mikoli Derkac to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the construction of a maternity home in the city of Dniprodjski Dnipropetrovsk. Mikoli Derkac to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the use of measures to eliminate the extraordinary situation in the region of Shamish in the city of Dniprožinsk Dnipropetrovsk. Mikoli Tomenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the illegal increase in the cost of paid services for teaching children in Ukrainian sports, music and art schools. Mikoli Tomenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the legality of the letter from the Minister of Education and Science, youth and sports of Ukraine, Dmitr Tobacco to the heads of higher educational institutions on the reduction of admission to higher educational institutions under a government order for 2011. Mikoli Shershuna to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine for the financing of the Prime Ministership Programme for centralized water supply to rural rural areas in the Plain region, which use imported and quality water for 2010 - 2012 in connection with a catastrophic situation in the area. Oksana Bilozer to the Prime Minister of Ukraine about the allocation of funds for the immediate repair of the sleeper and educational corps of the Crevice School of Public Education, boarding school No.4, which is in an emergency. Oleg Zarubinsky to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the effective monitoring of the performance of commitments made to the State and the labour groups by the owners of privatized enterprises. Oleg Zarubinsky to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the rapid information of citizens about changes in their rights and obligations under economic money conditions. Alexander Kemenyash to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to arrange an alternative railway move in the town of Svalí Zacarpatsk. Alexander Cronvolenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the return of eight billion dollars to the budget of Kiev, which was illegally removed in 2010. Paul Mobchana to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the preservation of the Central District Hospital of the Tatarbunar district of Odessa. Sergei Gordienka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need for a comprehensive state-wide solution to the problems of the disabled in the Republic of Afghanistan and the families of the citizens who died in Afghanistan. Sergey Chrapova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, on the long-term non-payment of salaries to employees of the Open Shareholders Association Dniprometroud and other violations of the rules of the Constitution and the Code of Law on the Work of Ukraine. Groups of National Deputies to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, to take urgent measures to restore the heat supply of the villages of Tairovo and Kotovsky in Odessa, to find out the reasons and responsibility of those who have allowed the massive disconnection of the supply of heat and electricity to the residents of Odessa, as well as to recall from Thailand the extra-duty leave of the mayor of Odessa Aleksija Kostusev. [[Lemzy, Blacksmith, and others]] Lilia Grigorovitch and Mikli Kulczynkov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the closure of the National Specialised Ukrainian School No.3 in the city of Lysicánsk Lugansk Region. Andrija Škila to the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Attorney General of Ukraine on the political persecution of Ukrainian author Maria Matios by the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine and the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine. Edouard Prutnik to the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine, Ministry of Health of Ukraine, on the need for reconstruction in accordance with the State Programme “Reproductive Health of the Nation until 2015”, approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine Order of 27 December 2006, the obstetric unit of the municipal health and prevention facility of the "Nižin City maternity facility", which provides medical care to residents of the town of Nižin and the region of Njižin and Njižin, as well as emergency medical care for residents of Nosovsky, Bobrovickýk, Borznjanský, Ichnjanský, Bachmak and Kulikov oblasts of the Chernigiv region. Catherine Vasuk to the Ministry of Health of Ukraine on the urgent need for construction and reconstruction of medical facilities in the Volinsk region. Mikoli Shershun to the Ministry of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine for the provision of electricity to Kiyivenergo for the rights of representatives of the Forest Song Gardening Society to use electricity. Olega Lalashka to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine for the cessation of violations by officials of the constitutional rights of Ukrainian citizens - participants in protests against the Tax Code. Alexander Shepeleva to the Minister of Health of Ukraine for preventing the hospital from being closed in the village of Anenka Lugansk. Roman Zabzaluk to the Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources of Ukraine regarding the failure to provide an answer by the Head of State for Environmental Protection in the Mikolai region of Volodymyr Efimov to a parliamentary statement on the possible illegal operation of a garbage dump in the village of Berezanka Mikolai district. Jurya Crook is Ukraine's Deputy Prime Minister, the Minister of Infrastructure, for the use of appropriate measures to save the state-owned enterprise "Ukrainian Danube Sailing". Jury Karmazin to the Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources of Ukraine, the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights, the Minister of Health of Ukraine, the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Acting Head of the Lviv Administrative Court of Appeal, the Head of the Kyiv Administrative Court of Appeal on the use of urgent measures to respond to the immediate cessation of the illegal activities of the Society with limited responsibility for the "Centre of Innovation and Construction Technology" of production that pollutes the environment of the natural environment and threatens the lives and health of the inhabitants of the Danube area of the Hmielski district, the restoration of the violated constitutional rights of the territorial community of the specified area of security. Irina Herashchenko and Alexander Tretlyakow to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the violation of human rights regarding Ukrainian author Maria Matios and the removal of the printing of the book "Picked pages from Autobiography". Jury Karmazin to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine, the Head of the Security Service of Ukraine, the Attorney-General of Ukraine, the Head of the Lviv Court of Appeal for the purpose of examining the facts of the deliberate failure to comply with the decisions of the court, the gross violation of the current legislation and the possible corruption and abuse of services by officials of the State Executive Service of the Lviv Region, the private notary and the inaction of the prosecutor's authorities, which greatly harms members and the Labour Collective of the Rospezbud Society, and the use of appropriate response measures. Arsenija Yatsenuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the use of measures taken by the Attorney General of Ukraine to immediately stop the persecution and protection of Ukrainian author Maria Matios. Andrija Pavlovski to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the evasion of excise duties and taxes by the Livela company, imported into Ukraine of petroleum products. Group of National Deputies to the Government-authorized Anti-Corruption Policy, the Supreme Council of Justice, the State Agency for Land Resources, the Ministry of Economic Development and Trade of Ukraine, the Ukrainian Security Service, the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine, the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine, the Kyiv City Public Administration, the Kyiv District Society of Gardening and Massives, the Obollon District District in Kiev State Administration on the need for a comprehensive review of the appeal of the members of the "Houter Reddyka" Garden Society on the facts of the acquisition of land in the territory of the Obollon district of Kiev and the use of appropriate measures to ensure the restoration and protection of property rights in the territory of the 30-members of this jurisdiction until the 2009 government of the Cabinet. [[Bondica, Prutnika, Plonikova]] Oleg Tishchenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the examination of the complaint of the head of the Brovari Municipal Organization of the People's Action Party "The Hope" Viacheslav Silukov. Valery Konovaluka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on violations of Ukrainian legislation in the Ukrainian Ministry of Defence in the purchase of research and engineering. Vladimir Ariev to the Attorney-General of Ukraine regarding the dissatisfaction of the reply of the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine to the MP's request to consider the issue of the obstruction by the Regional Electoral Commission of the legitimate activities officially elected to the post of head of the Slobido-Kulchieveck village council of citizen Marija Mitkević. Vladimir Yavorowski to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the New Year's broadcast of the "short" version of the State Hymn of Ukraine, where the lines "Our Enemies Will Die Like the dew of the sun" were removed. And we, brothers, will rule in our own side!"...which is an insolent and public abuse of the national symbol of Ukraine and entails criminal responsibility. John Stoyk to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the illegal persecution by law enforcement agencies of the Shevchenk Prize laureate, Ukrainian author Maria Matios. Gregory Omelchenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the violation of a criminal case and the legal assessment of the actions of the Ukrainian national deputies who are in violation of the requirements of the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine are engaged in activities that are incompatible with the parliamentary mandate and officials who do not respond to these violations and in bringing the perpetrators to justice. Mikoli Kulczynski to the Attorney General of Ukraine on illegal capture and capture of the scientific cooperative, the abolition of the garage fights by an industrial-technical company in the form of a company with limited responsibility of "Agglomat" for the purpose of acquiring a cooperative land. Alexander Kemenyash to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the need to verify the possible illegal absorption and seizure of the land and property of the Science Corporation in Kiev on the street of Bulahovsky, 4. Peter Cibenk to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the legality of the decision of the Lviv City Council to predict in the 2011 city budget monthly payments to UPA veterans amounting to 500 dollars. The branch of the U.S. Attorney General's Office regarding the use of response measures to prevent the capture of the land belonging to the Science Corporation. The branch of the Undercover to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the deliberate delay of the management of the Kiivenergo stock company to issue to consumers of the forest meadow plant technical conditions for joining the power grids. Sergey Teryochina to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the manifestations of corruption by members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, in particular on the placement of a scientific and practical comment to the Ukrainian Tax Code, edited by Mikli Azarov for money. Jury Crook to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the use of prosecutorial measures to protect the interests of a Ukrainian citizen. Jury Odarchenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the legality of the investigation. Group of People's Deputies to the Attorney-General of Ukraine on the persecution by the Attorney-General of Ukraine and the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine of writer Maria Matios. [[Chewchenka, Grizzenka, and others. Total 4 deputies]] Groups of National Deputies (Skutka, Grigorovich) and others to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the abuse of the State Hymn of Ukraine. Irina Gerashchenko and Alexander Tretlyakov to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the illegal search and violation of journalist's rights to perform professional duties with the Chief Editor of the Information Agency "Besides You" of Helen Bilozerski. Oksana Bilozer to the head of the Kyiv City Public Administration for the protection of the rights of residents of the house on Darwin Street, 4 in Kiev. Alexander Crnvolk to the head of the Kyiv City Public Administration on the need to combine the construction of electricity to Boryspol Airport with the construction of the left-hand line of the metropolis and the Troistian-Podil Metroline. Sergei Gordienka to the head of the Kyiv District State Administration on the protection of labour rights and guarantees provided for by the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Deputies of Local Councils, concerning the deputy to the Regional Council of the People's Republic of Kiev, Mikoli Grisk. Thus, honourable members of the people, 91 requests were made, including four requests to the President of Ukraine, and none of them were supported. At the same time, they will be directed directly to those concerned. Is there no objection? Dear National Deputies! On Thursday, we decided to hold a parliamentary hearing on March 23. March 2nd, I'm sorry. On March 2, 2011, parliamentary hearings on land issues And since we expanded the subject during the decision-making process, the committee asked to prepare thoroughly for that parliamentary hearing, to vote on the date of parliamentary hearings – instead of on March 2nd – to set the date on March 23rd. In order for the committee to address this wide range of land-related issues, the fate of the land in Ukraine. You would not object if I put to the vote a motion for amendments to the Supreme Council of Ukraine decree on parliamentary hearings on the subject: “Country in Ukrainian fate. The situation in the land area. Legislative provision of land relations and the practice of implementing it.” In the detail of the date, instead of March 2nd, record March 23, 2011. And according to a commission from the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to predict that by February 17 he had submitted the necessary documents, and the date was until February 3. So to a certain extent, you can change the date. I am voting on the proposal to make clarifications to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the holding of parliamentary hearings on land issues. Please vote. [[11:31:57]] For 258. Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, you have a proposal for a bill to suspend the privatisation of the stock package, which belongs to the State in the charter fund of the closed-circuit company Kyiv Film Studio. [[Registration number 5510]]
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-14-m0.u79	Did I read "Kievsky"? I beg your pardon, Odeska Kinostaudia. Dear colleagues, there is a suggestion to consider this issue in a simplified manner. Please vote. [[11:32:51]] For 219 Decision taken. The rapporteur is the national deputy of Ukraine, Litwin Volodymir. And the co-rapporteur is the head of the Economic Policy Committee, Bondar Alexander Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-14-m0.u80	Dear colleagues, I'm just a few words. The problem is more than obvious. Virtually all of you know the Odessa Film Studio, was on it. It needs special national attention. The collective has repeatedly asked all institutions not to destroy this unique institution because of privatization. And in response to your petitions, distinguished national MPs, in the form of parliamentary requests, MPs' letters, as well as the appeal, in fact, of the labour force, and a draft decision has been prepared. At the same time, the committee that was considering this issue would think it would be worth it if the Supreme Council of Ukraine agreed to do so, a draft decision to translate it into a draft law and consider it accordingly, and your will to make a decision. Obviously, this unique object should not be privatized now.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-14-m0.u81	I have to tell you that there's a unique archive, a unique story that happens, and I'm not saying any more about the territory, the question of where does it go? Until all these conditions are reconciled, a taboo should be placed on the subject of privatization. The report was completed.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-14-m0.u82	Please, Alexander Mikolaiovich Bondar of the Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-14-m0.u83	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! In considering the project, the Committee noted that the issues noted, such as the suspension of privatization and the administration of public property objects, such as the determination of the inadequacy of the transfer of a specific object to a statutory fund or mortgage, should be determined in accordance with article 92 of the Constitution of Ukraine only by the adoption of laws defining the legal property regime. So the issue identified in the project is not the subject of regulation of the Supreme Council's ruling. In addition, the adoption of the project will create a dangerous precedent, which, contrary to the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, will allow the Supreme Council's decisions to influence the process of privatization and administration of state property. According to the Scientific and Expert Management Committee, the best way to address this issue is to adopt a separate law on the inclusion of a package of shares belonging to a State, a statutory fund of a closed shareholder company in non-privatisation objects. So the committee, taking into account the urgency of the matter, is its relevance. But the fact that this decree contradicts the Constitution has prepared, on the basis of a decree, a law prohibiting the privatization of the Odessa Film Studios. And we now propose to vote on this document as the law of Ukraine. This will be in line with the Constitution and will address the issue of non-privatization of the object. The text of the law I pass on to Vladimir Mikhailovich. Please support both in the first reading and in general as a law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-14-m0.u84	Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up for a discussion. Please put the names of the national deputies on the information board. Viacheslav Kirilenko and then Sergey Greenewecki. Viacheslav Kirilenko, faction “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-14-m0.u85	Viacheslav Kirilenko, Party for Ukraine! Dear colleagues, this is an important question given that film is far from the last thing in the country, a cinematographer, to be exact. And this determination to talk about the state of affairs in the national cinema is broader than the Odessa Film Studio. Even though things are serious, because we had the Yaltine Film Studio, it's gone, it's privatized by the Russians, and it's no longer our property. We have a motion picture studio called Length, but the ground in the center of the city is always willing, wiping out the hands, of the land in the motion picture studio of Length. And in Odessa, also in the center, we need to keep an eye out, because there won't be anywhere to shoot even what we can shoot right now, a place. But on the occasion of consideration of this decision, I have a request from the author of the decree, the Head of the Supreme Council, or we may make an offer in the near future to make parliamentary hearings about the current state of the Ukrainian cinematographer and the necessary actions of the state authority to come out of the crisis of the Ukrainian cinematographer. For many years it has been said, and now it is there. Now it's in the budget, you have to say, unprecedented money for making national movies, just under the overall fund, of 111 million. It's a question. This money, first of all, will it be allocated because the Ministry of Finance always thinks about it? The second is whether they're going to create some sweet Russian TV channels for Ukrainian money, or whether we're actually going to create a model cinematographic product. So it would be good, for example, in February-March, to have a hearing, and listen to our meters here in this room. Listen to Roman Balayan, listen to Kira Muratov, who is on the Odessa Film Studio, listen to Olesia Sanin, Olesia Yanchuk, Andry Donchick, Sergey Trimbach, head of the National Film Association, and all who are involved in the film process in Ukraine. And maybe parliament would finally solve this Gordi's knot crisis of the Ukrainian cinematographer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-14-m0.u86	Thank you, too. Sergei Greenewecki, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-14-m0.u87	Thank you, Sergey Greenewacke faction of the People's Party. Dear colleagues, it is clear that the situation around the Odessa Film Studios is getting worse. Sadly, the production of the country’s film has been completely halted. The cost that comes from filming in the territory of a Russian film studio, which is the rental of unique pavilions, a unique apparatus, is practically not used to develop native cinema and cinema, and to improve its material and technology base. And it's quite clear that the purpose of this law is to preserve the entire property complex of cinema, and to prevent it from being re-profiled and to preserve the conditions for the restoration of Ukrainian cinema. I want to thank both the drafter of the bill and the committee for this understanding, and I ask you to support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-14-m0.u88	They insist, please, that Peter Simonenko's faction was small, he did not speak for one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-14-m0.u89	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, the Company's faction will vote in favour of this draft regulation. But I want to draw your attention to the next. 20 years of independence. During the years of Soviet power, the cinema Odessa – 270 films, in the years of so-called independence – no film. That's the price of your entire policy. What are you doing here from the rostrum? Here's the whole price of your policy. What's to be filmed in this independent Ukraine, the bandits? Porn to show you what you're always imposing in this life. Therefore, the question today is entirely different from that of the need to stop privatizing, especially the matter of spirituality and culture. We have to stop having these conversations today, spoiling what you're doing, because you just destroyed the nationalist gentlemen, all that was Ukrainian wealth: both Yaltian cinema, and Odessa kinostudi, and Duzhenko. There's goats in the gardens where Longzhenko planted, let's say, apples. Therefore, it is not necessary to talk about it, but it is necessary to make practical decisions, and it is necessary to change policies in general with regard to spirituality and culture. And we don't have to do that. Like you did.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-14-m0.u90	Please finish the speech. Who else didn't come out of the factions? Paul Silent.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-14-m0.u91	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! Undoubtedly, the proposal made by Alexander Mikolaiovich Bondar to settle the problem by law is well supported. But my view of this thing is a little bit wider. We save one object at a time when other studies, including Longener’s film studio, are threatened and are actually already semiprivatized. We know how the center of Longevk has gone into private hands, in fact, the entire cinema is in the hands of strangers. I'm not going to talk about the state of those pavilions that are near us. We just have to go through and see. In a terrible, neglected place, rented. If we're only going to settle this issue by decrees or even individual laws, which refer to the study, in this case Odesk, we need to approach it in a comprehensive way. Hence, the proposal made by Viacheslav Kirilenka is of great importance. Talk about the situation.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-14-m0.u92	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-14-m0.u93	To solve this problem, we need to consider what priorities, what priorities, what funding. And it's not just about government grants.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-14-m0.u94	Thank you. Please, Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-14-m0.u95	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, you will not, but I want to thank you for having this idea. And it's absolutely right to suggest that this should be done by law, to exclude paragraph 2 from where the Cabinet of Ministers' mandate is written, and just so it's written, "stop, stop, stop, stop privatization or ban and introduce the State into statutory funds" and beyond, as you suggested. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I address my colleagues. We also had Kyiv and Yaltin kinostudia, and everything, or Rainbow. We need to look at each of these studies, if we're going to do another half-hour of work. So let's just do this as long as we have vacations, we're going to have the profile committee prepare for the review and report on the status of these film studios and production, and we're going to ask the Ministry to produce the film. And then we'll see.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-14-m0.u96	Thank you. The faction of the Party of the Regions, Alexander Pecklesenko has the right to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-14-m0.u97	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I also want to thank you. The discussion that is now actively taking place in the Hall suggests that the problem is urgent. And the relevance of the phrase, that of all the art we see as important to cinema, confirmed today's discussion. I support the idea that parliamentary hearings are needed. The only thing I think we need to talk about is not just the cinema, but the culture as a whole. If we want to have the future of Ukraine, we must engage in spiritual activities through culture. Such a programme is therefore needed and such parliamentary hearings are needed. This bill will be fully supported by the faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-14-m0.u98	Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. I'll put the committee's proposal to the vote. I'll read it, it's short for a stenographer. This is a draft of the Act prohibiting the privatization of the alienation of the transfer and the introduction of all forms of ownership of the shares belonging to the State in the statutory capital of the Odessa Cinemas Association, with a view to ensuring the conditions for the restoration of Ukrainian cinemas and the preservation of the entire assets of the Closed Shareholders Association Odeska Cinemastudia, the Supreme Council of Ukraine decides: First. Prior to the adoption of the Ukrainian Act amending certain legislative instruments to ensure the conditions for the restoration of Ukrainian cinematography to prohibit privatization, alienation, mortgage and the introduction into statutory capital, funds, farm societies of all forms of ownership of the state-owned stock package, in statutory capital, in the fund, in the closed shareholders association Odeska Kinostudi. The other one. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, within three months of the entry into force of this law, will develop and submit to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a bill amending certain legislative acts to ensure conditions for the restoration of Ukrainian cinema. Third. This law takes effect from the day it was published. In accordance with the committee's recommendations, if there is no objection, then I will put to the vote to accept it as a whole. Is there no objection? I'm voting on this proposal. [[11:46:50]] For 354 The law is passed. Dear colleagues! Thank you. Dear colleagues, it is suggested that you consider the draft Act amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts on the activities of garden societies and tax cooperatives. [[Registration number 5282]] Asked to consider the matter in a simplified manner. The committee's offering it. Please vote. [[11:47:28]] For 197 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, the reporter is the national deputy of Lithuania, and the co-reporter is the head of the Economic Policy Committee, Gregory Mikolaiovich Kaletnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-14-m0.u99	In a few words, let me inform you about the reasons for the preparation, its contents. The basis for the drafting of such a bill was the appeal of both national deputies and directly to the Supreme Council of Ukraine of people working in garden cooperatives. This is due to the fact that, for the time being, the issues related to the provision of land-based areas for the general use of gardening property are not sufficiently regulated. According to the practice, land of general use is granted to a gardener’s company on lease terms that do not correspond to the position of part four of article 35 of the Ukrainian Code of Land, according to which the land of general use of the gardening society is his property. In addition, according to article 121 of the Land Code, Ukrainian citizens are entitled to a free transfer of land from state or municipal property, including for individual tax construction, no more than 10 hundred, or 0.1 hectares. However, the issue of land-based use of tax cooperatives is not regulated by law at this time. Thus, with a view to ensuring the implementation of part four of article 35 of the Code and to resolving the issue of free transfer of land to the general use of garden societies and tax cooperatives, ownership of land-free trade, and a bill has been drafted. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-14-m0.u100	Please, Gregory Mikolaiovich Kaletnik, head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-14-m0.u101	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! The bill introduced by Volodymyr Mikhailovich Litwin is very important. It is designed to protect the rights on earth of the general use of members of garden societies and of tax cooperatives. The position of part four of article 35 of the Ukrainian Land Code, under which the land of general use of the garden society is its property, is not regulated by law today, because the code did not provide for the transfer of these lands to the property of garden societies directly on the basis of the law. Moreover, the Code does not provide for any procedure by which a garden society could get land of general ownership. The committee therefore held extensive consultations, discussions. And we supported the basic position of the proposed bill: the free transfer of such land to property. At the same time, we agreed on the committee's comments by the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration regarding the land of general use provided for specific construction. The legal regime of such lands is proposed to devote a separate article of the Ukrainian Code of Land rather than to amend article 52 of the Code, which deals with the land of recreation as a whole. In view of what has been said, I propose a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation on the activities of garden societies and tax cooperatives. Thank you for your attention, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-14-m0.u102	Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this issue? [[B in m in s a l in]] Please sign in. Please, yes, National Deputy Gerasimchuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-14-m0.u103	Gerasimczuk, National Party. Please pass the word to Catherine Timothy Vaszczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-14-m0.u104	Katerina Vaschuk, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-14-m0.u105	Katerina Vaschuk. I was going to say that the bill had to be drafted earlier, as was foreseen at the time of the adoption of the Earth Code, and it was very good that the author had submitted it today. This bill should, indeed, strengthen the rights of those who are often in distress, in various of these not always the best lands, have brought about the order of the garden, planted some plants, or tried to help their family even, even by providing the most necessary, it is vital, it must be appreciated. And today, with serious land potential in Ukraine, we have to do everything we can to make sure that all people who want to work on the ground have not only such an opportunity, but also the right to do so. So I am truly grateful to the author for his timeliness, the fundamental law, the law prescribed legally, completely. And I think it can be accepted not only in the first reading, but in general. Because it's a law that really is for people. And not for hundreds, but for tens and hundreds of thousands of our Ukrainian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-14-m0.u106	Andrew Pavlovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-14-m0.u107	Andrew Pavlovsky. Please give the word to a well-known agrarian expert and director of the Kirilenko faction, Ivan Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-14-m0.u108	Ivan Kirilenko, "BUT" faction, "Fatherland." Karmazin will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-14-m0.u109	Thank you, Andrey Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, the problem is, indeed, there is. The problem concerns hundreds of thousands of people. Indeed, during these and years, during these months, especially during election campaigns, many thousands. I want to remind you that the epoch began with garden societies since 1985. Then, at the time, there was usually a misunderstanding at the city’s side. And today, when the building boom seems to be quiet now, but tomorrow or tomorrow it will be again, it's very puzzling for many, as they say, of the earth. Hence, people’s mistrust. That's where the anxiety and the commotion came from. Hundreds of thousands of people are turning, it's true. Vladimir Mikhailovich, there is another problem. We will support the vote in both the first and the second readings, and in general this law. He's needed. And we need people to support us. But there will be another problem in the daytime. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I'm addressing you because look at what kind of appeal is going to be. Now, it turns out, every area in Ukraine, and millions of these areas: industrial enterprises, small businesses, tax buildings, and so on, each land area needs a cadastral number. Do you know how many hundreds of thousands are worth? Imagine. So we either need to settle at the legislative level immediately, or we need to stop this madness. Today, these old people are still demanding huge sums of money at the cadastre. Therefore, by adopting this law, let us accept it as a whole today. But let's set up a legislative barrier so that we don't have another theft, which is what I just said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-14-m0.u110	Thank you. Yuri Carmazin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-14-m0.u111	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! This is indeed a question that people in all regions are keenly asking. And when I was in Zaporozhye, in Dnipropetrovsk, where I didn't stay, they asked me this very question so that we could settle it. That's why I read the bill carefully, and the comments made by the committee, and the scientific expertise. In particular, the committee said that it was not appropriate to amend the Cooperation Act, and I recall that the draft amended article 22 of the Act, which added to the first part the following phrase: “the land of general use of the tax cooperative is transferred free of charge to its property from state or municipal property according to the law.” It is mandatory, and it is very legal, that it is written there, that it cannot be removed from there. Amendments to this law should be mandatory – to the Cooperation Act. Otherwise, there will be no complexity in the consideration of this document and these laws will conflict with each other. Because of this, it's completely motivated, it's done. And you know, it seems to me sometimes that notes are written for the sake of notes to put a twig in. When there's nothing to fight about, they write, and it's useless, it's used, it's not contradictory, it's inappropriate. The question of relevance should not be solved by the Scientific and Expert Office or the Committee. The question of legality must be resolved. Is it legal? Yes! Is it in the interests of people? Yes! Is today all the factions that the regions that Lithuania, the communists that our Ukraine, the BUT, have spoken against? No, it's not. This led to a mature situation in which this law, as proposed, should be adopted in the first and second readings. I think all hands will be right today.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-14-m0.u112	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-14-m0.u113	I'm done. And finally, Catherine Timothy, you offered to do the first and second readings today. And I would like to say, when I say hello to you on your birthday, that yes, by the time you're born, you have to adopt this law. Thank you. Please accept our greetings.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-14-m0.u114	Ladies and gentlemen, no one insists on the factions that have spoken? No, it's not. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal of the adoption committee on the basis of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the activities of garden societies and tax cooperatives. [[Registration number 5282]] [[11:58:57]] For 339 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, there was an offer to accept this project as a law as a whole. Is there a denial? I am voting on the proposal to adopt a draft law as the Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the activities of garden societies and tax cooperatives. [[Registration number 5282]] [[11:59:36]] For 329 The law is passed. Thank you. Honorary colleagues, one request, is draft Law 6438, which should clarify the term “neighbourly relatives”, the word “man” should be changed or vice versa, a man should be added to close relatives. Can we vote, no objections? The committee has reached a positive conclusion and suggests that it be accepted as a whole. No objections? I am voting on the adoption as a basis and as a whole the draft Act amending the 32 Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine. [[on the term “close relatives”]] [[Registration number 6338]] Please vote. [[12:00:41]] For 337 The law is passed. Thank you. But, honourable national MPs, when we adopt the Anti-Corruption Act, then we'll probably say that the wife and the husband are, in fact, unknown people. Dear National Deputies! According to article 85, part 17, of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine is responsible for hearing the Annual Report of the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine on Human Rights, "The State for the Respect and Protection of Human Rights and Freedoms in Ukraine". In accordance with the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, such a procedure is proposed. To present the report, give the Commissioner of Human Rights up to 20 minutes. To answer and question the national MPs, take up to 20 minutes. And a representative of the committee in 10 minutes. At the same time, the Rules stipulate that if the Supreme Council of Ukraine raises the issue of its discussion, a decision should be taken. So since the MPs came along, made various proposals, let's move forward in this way that we will now follow this rule. And then we vote. Please, Ivan Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-14-m0.u115	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! On the Conciliation Council, Vladimir Mikhailovich, on the Conciliation Council, we made an offer not to open a discussion on this issue. But let the factions exchange their thoughts. We would now make this proposal, and we would vote, three minutes from the factions, to express our thoughts and thoughts on this subject, and that would be enough for today. That would have taken exactly an hour of work. I'd like my colleagues to support this proposal. Put her to the vote now.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-14-m0.u116	Dear colleagues! Because we don't have to vote, that's 20, 20 and 10, that's just information to be known if that's the offer. Let's take three minutes from the factions and at that point a big dot. I'm putting the vote to a discussion to take 15 minutes for the factions to speak, that's three minutes from the faction, that's all. Yeah. Please vote. Please vote. [[12:03:26]] For 116 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, let's go this way: let's go this way, and then a minute from the faction, if we have to, let's do everything. Do you have a deal? And make sure we have it. So that we can work in a more peaceful way. I invite you to report to the Human Rights Council of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Karpachov Nina Ivanovna. Please, Nina Ivanovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-14-m0.u117	Dear Head, distinguished national deputies, government officials, representatives of the judiciary, the diplomatic corps, the media, dear compatriots! Today I present your attention in accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine the annual report on the state of respect for and protection of human rights and freedoms in Ukraine. This report is the result of systematic monitoring of specific conducts, analysis of appeals by Ukrainian citizens, foreigners, non-citizens - refugees. In 2010, Ukraine, together with the entire European community, celebrated the 60th anniversary of the Convention on the Protection of Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. At a special meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on October 22, the Human Rights Commissioner presented a special report: “The State of compliance with European standards of human rights and freedoms”. For the first time, society was familiar with a comprehensive analysis of Ukraine’s commitment to human rights under the Council of Europe. On the basis of the priority of the protection of children's rights, a special report was presented to the Supreme Council of Ukraine last December: “State of respect for and protection of the rights of the child in Ukraine”, which is dedicated to the 20th anniversary of the ratification by Ukraine of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child, which will be held on February 27, 2011. During the existence of an institution, more than 1 million people have turned to the Ombudsman. In the past year alone, 82,000. Each second appeal involved a violation of civil rights, such as the right to a fair trial, the enforcement of judicial decisions, and the proper conditions for detention in places of detention. Each third of the petitions referred to a violation of socio-economic rights. Please, on the table, you can see that on the screen. As in previous years, a large number of appeals to an authorized one have been caused by the bureaucratic attitude of officials of public authorities, local self - government, to consider the appeals of people who do not want to be reconciled with lawlessness. Each fifth of the petitions contained complaints about the actions or omissions of internal affairs officials, 1 in 10 of them from the prosecutor’s office. The most brutal form of human rights violations in Ukraine remains poverty. For many people, poverty is not only a low level of material security, but also a sense of lack of freedom of choice, of uncertainty in the future of their children. Under the global economic and financial crisis, the gap between the rich and the poor continues to deepen. In Ukraine the richest material prosperity is growing faster than the poorest, and the gap between the city and the village is increasing. Please, on the screen. During the crisis, large industrial and banking capital became especially rich. Even 80 percent of foreign investment has gone into banking. In line with the challenges, the Millennium Development Goals by 2015 would reduce Ukraine's share of its poor by a third. However, according to official data, the poverty rate is above 26 percent and is actually still at the 2000 level. The poverty of the rural population as well as of families with children is extremely high. According to the United Nations, nearly 81 percent of the population of Ukraine is poor in Central and Eastern Europe. In appeals to the authorized person, people complain of low wages and pensions, the impossibility of a rapid increase in prices and tariffs to feed their families and provide them with the most necessary. Poverty and social inequality require a set of measures aimed primarily at job creation. And I'm going to point out this again, this is the main job creation. The increase in employment and decent working conditions, as well as the objective definition of living minimum and other social standards, and real changes in the pay system. People look forward to a return to employment savings, a liberation from modern - day credit slavery. After all, man, his needs, his well-being and the quality of his life, should be the goal of economic growth and economic reforms. That is why the first submission of the Human Rights Council of the Authority to the newly elected President of Ukraine, Victor Fedorovich Yanukovic, dealt with the problems of combating poverty. The Head of State commissioned the government to develop a state-wide programme to overcome and prevent poverty in Ukraine. We expect the government to complete this very important work. I believe it is necessary to stress the inadmissibility of violating human constitutional rights to pay for work at the proper time. The debt of wages is 1 billion 300 million dollars. However, taking into account the tinnitus of working relationships and wages, real debt is much higher. The inability to earn a decent living will move millions of Ukrainians to seek a better destiny outside their home country. This is another challenge for modern - day Ukraine, with between 5 million and 7 million Ukrainian migrant workers abroad. Please, now we'll see it on the screen. The issue of strengthening the protection of their rights was repeatedly violated by the Human Rights Commissioner at parliamentary and committee hearings. With a view to strengthening the protection of labour migrant rights, the Ombudsman signed agreements on cooperation in the field of human rights protection with the ombudsmen of the countries of the largest number of Ukrainians, such as Russia, Kazakhstan, Spain, Portugal, France, Poland, Argentina, and some others. Special attention has been paid in recent years to protecting the rights of Ukrainian sailors. I am convinced that one of the priorities of our foreign policy should be to ensure the rights of Ukrainian migrant workers. This is primarily about proper legal protection, through the signing of bilateral international legal aid agreements. I believe that in countries of mostly labour migration, our fellow countrymen, diplomatic representations should be strengthened by specially trained consular personnel, adding additional personnel. It is urgent to resolve the problem of recognition of educational documents, taking into account the insurance system and the definition of pensions, in line with the Constitutional Court’s decision of October 8, 2009. Regrettably, as is still the case, migration policies in Ukraine are based solely on opposition to illegal migration. Yes, according to the President's decree, the National Migration Service of Ukraine was established. However, as in the previous government, its activities are directed and coordinated by the Cabinet of Ministers through the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine. In fact, the leadership of all aspects of migration policy, both external and internal, relies solely on the power of intelligence, which is contrary to the recommendations of the European Union and the humanitarian tasks of migration policy. Because, as defined in the Paris Resolution of 9 April 2010, migrant workers are participating in economic growth and prosperity, national wealth creation in destination countries, and poverty reduction in their countries of origin. We appreciate their work. I think it is necessary to note that if we want to treat Ukrainians in a dignified manner abroad, we do not have the right to allow disrespect for Ukraine's foreign migrants, their discrimination and their manifestations of xenophobia. I want to point out that the overall trend in xenophobic crime in Ukraine over the years 2009-2010 shows that it has been halved in comparison with 2008 and 2007. This was the result of intensified opposition to similar phenomena from the IMF, the BPO and the Public Prosecutor's Office, as well as the activation of non-governmental organizations. Whenever I stress the need for ratification by Ukraine of the International Convention for the Protection of the Rights of All Migrant Workers and Members of Their Families, this will allow for a qualitative new level of protection of the rights of migrant workers without double standards. Honorable national MPs, one of the most painful problems of society, remain to uphold the right to legal protection. Almost every fifth appeal to the Commissioner for Human Rights relates to this very question. This is also confirmed by the practice of the European Court of Human Rights. On January 1, 2010, Eurosud made 715 decisions regarding Ukraine. [[Please look at the screen]] In the absolute majority of cases, there has been a violation by Ukraine of article 6 of the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms concerning the Right to a Fair Trial. In conclusion, PARE No. 190 and resolution 1549 of Ukraine’s delay in judicial reform was subject to severe criticism, as we have been waiting for this reform, as you know, for 20 years. The violations took place only in 2010 with the development and adoption of the Supreme Council in July 2010 of the Law on the Judiciary and the Status of Judges. At the time of the adoption of the long-awaited Law on Free Legal Aid and the new edition of the Law on Lawyers. We too have been waiting for more than 10 years. In addition, the Supreme Council needs to adopt a new Code of Criminal Procedure. And we've been waiting for almost 10 years. The first steps towards the implementation of judicial reform have been taken. However, law enforcement has shown that there are some problems that require further action, taking into account the conclusions of both the PARE and the Venice Commission. In his rulings, the European Court of Human Rights, which is 180 such rulings, found a violation of the reasonable terms of the court’s hearing. Yes, in a number of decisions of Eurosud, particularly in the cases of Nechtila, Slanko, Nehanchenko v. Ukraine, the investigation and investigation of cases lasted from 8 to 10 years. Because of the absence in the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine of borderline terms of detention, many people are actually awaiting a court decision to be held in custody for the entire term of the sentence imposed at last. In order to prevent this violation on 24 March 2010, I asked the President of Ukraine to provide a deadline for the custody of defendants and to ensure the rights of prisoners and detainees to conditions of detention. My position was maintained. A draft Act has been drafted to amend some of Ukraine’s legislative acts aimed at humanizing previous imprisonment. The corresponding positions are already laid down in the draft new Criminal Procedure Code. We await the steps that will be taken by the National Deputies. Every second decision of the European Court of Human Rights, which is 52 percent, found a violation of the right to a fair trial regarding the length of execution of national courts. The problem of failure to comply with the decisions of national courts continues to be chronic. In fact, every third decision of the national courts is implemented. In recent years alone, from 32 to 35 percent of us have made decisions in Ukraine by our own national courts, and with regard to European Court rulings, this figure is only 9 percent. Therefore, monitoring of the Council of Europe's Committee of Ministers will last until the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights on the part of Ukraine are fully implemented. For 10 years now, I have been concerned with the fact that Ukraine remains one of the leaders of arrests in Europe. Although the European standards have long been passed on by prosecutors to the courts, the situation has not changed significantly in almost all these years. Courts are sent to play almost 60,000 people each year, with about 10,000 or every six of them being released from custody. In connection with a change in preventive action, a sentence of punishment that does not involve oustering and justifying or closing criminal cases. The number of decisions made by the European Court of Human Rights in previous years on unwarranted human life expectancy has increased almost twice over the past year. The Court points out that national courts do not sufficiently justify the arrest of a person, and serious crimes are often determined by the primary criterion of keeping a person in custody. This confirms that the problem concerns not only the arrests of specific officials today, but is systemic for Ukraine and affects the percentages of the hundreds of people in Ukraine who go through detention or arrest each year. A human rights official is concerned that the number of convictions in Ukraine has increased in the last few years, including in 2010. Today, there are 152 thousand or 336 prisoners per 100,000 population of Ukraine. There's an indicator like that. If you look in different countries, Ukraine is one of the leaders of the Council of Europe after Russia and Georgia. So please, now you're going to see this on the appropriate electronic board. Slovenia, Finland, Switzerland, Italy, France, Germany, have stablely one of the smallest numbers of 60 to 100 people per 100,000. Interestingly, such a country — a member of Uzbekistan’s SND — has halved the number of prisoners to 142 per 100,000 in the past 10 years. I'll get your attention. We have 336 per 100,000 people. I would like to point out that removing tensions with overcrowding of penitentiary facilities has also contributed to amnesty. But unfortunately, both in 2009 and 2010, unfortunately, this amnesty bill in the Supreme Council has not been considered as violating the human rights of humanism, especially the most socially vulnerable and vulnerable groups. I hope that in the near future we will work together to solve this problem and the Amnesty Law adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The problem of torture continues to be a systemic problem, which increasingly leads to the loss of detainees. In 2008, 4 people were tortured to death by internal affairs officials, in 2009 - 3, in 2010 - 8. In all of these cases, the conduct of the Commissioner for Human Rights has been revealed. A particular concern is the situation in the Sumskie region, where in the last six months alone three local residents have been killed by law enforcement officials, precisely because of the problem of torture and violence. Every time I stress the need to create as soon as possible a national torture prevention mechanism in line with Ukraine’s international obligations. For this reason, I have also recently submitted an application to the President of Ukraine. As the Ombudsman of Ukraine pointed out, it is particularly inhuman to treat detained members of the Shevchenkov Police Department of Kiev, which is confirmed by a number of my conducts. A special resonance in society came about the death of a 20-year-old student named Igor Indiel. Today, the right - hand district court in Kiev is dealing with two coworkers of this paradise. A staff member of the Secretariat at my disposal, unfortunately only with the rights of the victim's representative, is seeking a fair trial in this case. That's why I'm calling on the people's deputies to finally adopt a bill defining the independent status of the Human Rights Commissioner in a criminal process that's been in Parliament for over three years without movement. Believe that this will greatly strengthen the protection of human rights in courts, and we will not ask judges every time to participate in the protection of human rights in criminal proceedings. I consider it necessary to draw attention to the protection of the right to freedom of speech. As before, journalists often suffer from violent acts. In the conduct of the Ombudsman on the protection of honour and dignity, the right to freedom of speech and the safety of the life of the editor of the Zitomir district newspaper Silska Life, Valerija Ivanovski, who received knife wounds. During a personal meeting with Ukraine’s Attorney General, Victor Pshonka reported that the suspects had already been detained and that the case had already been brought before the court. It is also ongoing in the case of the disappearance of the editor of Kharkiv’s New Style newspaper Vasil Klementiev. I fully share the concern of the National Journalist Association of Ukraine regarding the passive investigation of this resonance case. But while protecting freedom of the press, I stress the responsibility of the press itself to society and to every citizen. Honourable National Deputies, in the protection of human rights, the Commissioner is systematically cooperating with the National Deputies, the Committees of the Supreme Council, the Deputies, and the factions. I'm finishing up, like, half a minute. The Commissioner is trying to work systematically with the President of Ukraine as a guarantor of human rights, and only last year has 20 applications and 16 referrals from the President-in-Office of Ukraine from the most pressing human rights issues. I would like to inform the people's deputies that this afternoon my personal meeting with the President of Ukraine is scheduled to take place in accordance with Ukrainian legislation. In addition, during 2010, a number of submissions were made to the Commissioner for Human Rights and to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, in particular.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-14-m0.u118	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-14-m0.u119	Thank you. As regards the protection of the rights of members of the military and internal affairs bodies, labour migrants, and the protection of women’s rights to work in public administrations and administrations. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that the unbiased treatment of every human rights officer, the desire to solve any problem that lies within the scope of my competence, certainly in accordance with international law, the Constitution of Ukraine, the current legislation, and in accordance with my own conscience, remains the rule of my activity in this office. I would like to point out that ensuring the inalienable rights and freedoms of every human being should be the foundation of a national idea that could consolidate our society and serve as the basis for Ukraine’s further democratic movement. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-14-m0.u120	Yes, dear colleagues, please sign up for the question. Please, 20 minutes. It's a hunchback.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-14-m0.u121	I give the word to Chechchev.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-14-m0.u122	Mikhailo Chechetov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-14-m0.u123	Dear Nina Ivanovna, we have listened carefully to your report. He's really very thorough, interesting, objective. You have done a great deal to protect human rights both inside and abroad. This is also appreciated by our citizens, and the public appreciates it. Tell me, in different situations where you have to protect the rights of our citizens in different countries, in your opinion, if our policies that go abroad did not spill dirt on the country, did they not pollute the State's authority, but did they protect and raise the country's image, the country's reputation, the country's honour, would it be easier to protect human rights in this situation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-14-m0.u124	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to say that the Ombudsman is out of politics. But it is very difficult to find a line where politics passes, and where it is a question of respect for human rights and freedoms. Because big politics is respect for human dignity. I want to say that I am always talking to all the people's advocates about the consolidation of efforts in the very direction of protecting the rights and freedoms of our fellow countrymen wherever they are, in Ukraine and abroad. And it seems to me that there can be no disunity on this path into different political powers, and Ukraine should, in fact, be represented as the only congregational state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-14-m0.u125	Please, Gerasimük Olga. Turn on Kendeur's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-14-m0.u126	Jaroslav Kenzior, MP for Ukraine!"for Ukraine!".. Dear Nina Ivanovno, first of all, I want to thank you for your consistent position on the fight against the shameful practice of the use of torturers here in Ukraine. And thanks to you, you have brought to justice those responsible for the death of the tortured Yuri Mazola and the consistent struggle for the fate of the eternal prisoner Vladimir Panasenko. We've worked a lot with you on this. Thanks to you, in 2008, you were sentenced to death in the Roman Stasuk militia. The general question is, What is the most important thing to do to avoid such manifestations? Because today you've called a terrible figure: in 2010, eight people, Ukrainians, were tortured in the police.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-14-m0.u127	Thank you for asking. This question can't help but worry every person in our country, because it's really a problem of great regret, so far we have one of the most up-to-date. I've been speaking to you and the Minister of Internal Affairs today, and I understand he's in pain as a manager. But the problem lasted long enough for Mazola’s affairs, after being tortured in the special divisions of the U.S.S.A., in Lviv. As early as 1996, I took up this position, but I still took this problem before I was introduced, and we brought it all to account, and to the reparation of moral and material harm, to two more victims of this crime, still alive parents, luckily. But I can tell you that other things that you called and the problem, just like that in the Cacalian example of 2007, when Bogdan Steczek was tortured to death. Three police officers, with the rest, have been sentenced to actual court sentences: seven years, seven years, and three years. And all three of them were given real sentences. At the beginning of my activity they actually got conditional.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-14-m0.u128	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-14-m0.u129	What should we do? First of all, Ukraine needs to develop a concept of a national preventive mechanism to prevent torture. I'm going to talk about this today specifically with the President, I've submitted it, and I hope that by the end of this year, Ukraine will create such a powerful national private mechanism. And of course, statistics, because statistics are hidden by law enforcement agencies, have to be developed and validated at the state level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-14-m0.u130	Andrew Shevchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-14-m0.u131	Dear Nina Ivanovna, to be honest, your report is disappointing because you report in a year when political repression began in Ukraine, when Ukraine began to be eliminated from international ratings as a free country when civil rights and freedom were entrenched in our eyes. We didn't hear about it in the report, maybe because we don't have the guts to say that this has happened in the last year on the fault of one, completely specific, political team that is now in power. As far as freedom of speech is concerned, I feel that we have the greatest enemies, the head of the district council, or some disgruntled village head. This is when we have a censoring system up and down. When crimes committed against journalists are committed in front of the entire country, they are left without the reaction of the Attorney General and the police. When there is complete terror against the Internet, computers, servers, and so on are removed. There is no mention in your report of the total disregard for the right of a citizen, access to public information, and you know how harsh this subject is. Nina Ivanovna, next year your team may depend on a lot, and I want your office to work for the citizens, and now it needs support more than ever in a situation where rights and freedoms are shrinking.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-14-m0.u132	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that we are living with you today for more than one day. Mr. Andriy Shevchenko addressed me working on a "5 channel" when the rights of employees of the "5 channel" were brutally violated and a hunger strike was launched. You personally phoned my direct phone, which is known to every Ukrainian citizen who wants to call me, you did, and I was protecting your rights back then. I'm defending the rights of the media today, because they're still being violated. But from you, from journalists to national deputies, much depends on this way of uniting efforts. You know that my team, along with you, along with the representatives of the regional authorities, participated in the drafting of the bill that you just mentioned on access to public information. I would like to welcome you all to the fact that, finally, with our joint efforts, this bill was adopted yesterday in the Supreme Council. Next. Both changes were adopted, and a new edition of the Information Access Act was adopted. We're specific.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-14-m0.u133	Taran, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-14-m0.u134	It's brutal. The importance of human rights in Ukraine is explained by the number of claims made by their citizens before the European Court of Justice. And you know, Ukraine takes third place here in the world, of course, after Russia and after Turkey. That is, in Ukraine there is a total violation of human rights: the right to peaceful meetings, the right to freedom of speech, and the right to life. And all those who oppose today's authorities are reprisals -- both Timoshenko, and the writer Matios, and journalists, and absolutely everyone and members of the youth organization Trizoub. And for example, according to International Freedom House, Ukraine is no longer a free state. She's no longer a free state -- I beg you, I'm asking you a question -- she's no longer a free state, she's already half-free. Dear Nina Ivanovna! It may take courage to say that it is impossible to uphold human rights in Ukraine without changing the power of today’s dictatorship.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-14-m0.u135	Dear National Deputies! On the other hand, I want to say who wants to see the concrete steps that the Ombudsman can and does in his mandate, he will see. Those who do not want to do so want to politicize all issues, including the activities of the Human Rights Commissioner, who is an independent authority, an independent body, and acts independently and independently of the authorities, including the Supreme Council. From the point of view of my independent civic position, I think you can do that. You've seen this a lot, we've personally had to release students who were arrested, you remember, in militia dumpsters -- it was at night. I think you and I had a lot of courage back then. I don't lack the courage to go to those who are arrested today, I meet these people, I give them specific help, I meet them specifically, and I meet them directly in the detention centres, and I meet their families. [[His opposition today declared him politically persecuted]] I've done everything I can to help.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-14-m0.u136	Pauline Edward.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-14-m0.u137	Please pass the word to my colleague Samofalov.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-14-m0.u138	Samofalova's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-14-m0.u139	Dear Nina Ivanovna, there is this wisdom: "Everyone hears what they want to hear," I mean, an assessment of your report. For example, I have heard a highly professional report, each phrase of which is missed through your woman's heart. Your work is inconceivable in person and your machine, but it's huge. And the fact that human rights are being protected today is, above all, the merit of your collective. And that's my question. There are problems that unite all people, more precisely, the trouble is the capture of our sailors, which is increasingly common. I know you're doing a lot of work. Tell us, please, what mechanisms must be set up today by Parliament, the Government, the President so that our people do not suffer, so that they are not long at risk of death, so that their relatives do not experience them for months, months and months and so on. What are your thoughts in this regard? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-14-m0.u140	Ukrainian sailors are among the most vulnerable categories of migrant workers from Ukraine. More than 100,000 Ukrainian seamen today are being mistrusted in the worlds under foreign flags. The first and main problem is that our national fleet was destroyed in Ukraine because of corruption. We need to take a major step, I think in this direction, to restore the National Navy of Ukraine so that our sailors can work under the Ukrainian flag. That's first and foremost. The other one. With regard to the problem of the capture of our sailors by pirates. Viktor Janukovic, speaking at the General Assembly of the United Nations, made a proposal that we had already made with Deputy Igor Sharov in connection with the adoption at the level of the United Nations of an all-inclusive Convention to Combat Maritime Terrorism, which is today a piracy. This is extremely important. And the third. In Ukraine, a special interdepartmental commission on these issues should be established and the 2006 ILO Convention on the Protection of the Rights of Seafarers should be ratified.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-14-m0.u141	Please, Hotchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-14-m0.u142	Please pass the word to Gregory Kaletnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-14-m0.u143	Kaletnik's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-14-m0.u144	Dear Nina Ivanovna, you have the respect of most Ukrainian citizens as authorized, who have no regard for any disrespect or humiliation, and you defend the rights of these people. In view of the positive perception of your activity by foreign institutions, this is a question for you. How do you view the openness of Ukraine to the entry of citizens from Europe, Great Britain and others, and at the same time the demeaning procedure for drawing up a huge amount of help to obtain visas abroad by Ukrainian citizens, not to mention that not only do they require help at times, but the financial side also draws attention when people are forced to purchase tickets, to ban hotels, and then to either refuse a visa, or to give it much later than the terms on which tickets were purchased.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-14-m0.u145	Thank you. This is a very painful question, and I have had many appeals from our citizens on this very issue. I can testify that I have repeatedly applied to diplomatic information accredited in Ukraine, to various countries, including those European countries, which you have called in my question, and I can testify to the fact that the double standards applied today by individual countries of the European Union are, unfortunately, too far existing in relation to Ukrainian citizens. Secondly, there is a problem of demeaning human dignity just during the meeting of a series of documents, when it is necessary to prove literally absolutely obvious, as well as the problems of dactyloscopy or, let's say, the happy shell of our eye, which some countries on the border are demanding to date. Of course, that is a serious question. Questions related in general to the protection of the right to human dignity. I think that on our way to the European Union we need to raise these issues more actively at the level of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine and protect the rights of our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-14-m0.u146	Danilenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-14-m0.u147	Please pass the letter to Deputy Behiz.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-14-m0.u148	Behwa's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-14-m0.u149	Dear Nina Ivanovna, on Tuesday we have at a meeting of the faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, the leader of our faction, National Deputy Simonenko, indignantly said that those who committed crimes were exempt from criminal responsibility for the act of the Amnesty Law at the stage of the pretrial investigation. As you know, in our walls, the walls of the Supreme Council now have a bill of 4179 -- on the application of amnesty at the initiative of the People's Deputy Malishev. I would like to hear from you what your attitude toward the initiative of this bill, which excludes such a position? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-14-m0.u150	I said that two years of amnesty had taken place in Ukraine. This is a brutal violation of human rights. Whoever wanted to hear me heard. Secondly, I want to testify that if we applied amnesty now, about 11,000 prisoners could fall under the law. This is exactly the humanization of certain steps in this direction. Because the investigative isolations, unfortunately, you know, remain overcrowded, cause other rights of those who are actually to be there are being violated. But a third of them are for minor crimes, and I keep stressing it. So I support this bill, you said to the deputy Malisev and the other deputies who just made it, that's Victor Sweden, I know, and Gresak. That's why I'm just talking to the people's deputies. As soon as this bill is introduced, I think we'll accept it. But the main changes were made brutally to the old version of the Amnesty Act, which was actually given to the case, after the gas explosion in Dnipropetrovsk, to introduce three leaders of Dnipropetrovskgas. That's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-14-m0.u151	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-14-m0.u152	Half a minute, literally. That's why it's very important right now that you're renewing the rules of the law, that when officials' actions have caused more than two deaths, amnesty can't be applied at any stage at all. The amnesty was applied artificially. And today we are conducting a judicial investigation along with the victims. And you know, 23 dead and 509 injured. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-14-m0.u153	Please, Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-14-m0.u154	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Nina Ivanovna, first of all, let me thank you for the meaningful report, for the work you've been doing, and for your people who've been watching, who've been going to Kharkiv, when they've been destroying forests, when they've been beating people who've been walking around prisons, who've been looking for the release of the Cauldron, who's been stabbed with a stroke, who's now studying all the circumstances of the violations, first of all, to thank you. Secondly, I would like to ask you, Your Honor, Nina Ivanovna, at the direction of the Head of the Supreme Council, the three committees have been discussing questions about the former National Deputy Lieutenant General, Chernobyl, Afghan, Razwadovsky Viktor Josephovich. With regard to him, the Minister of Internal Affairs has committed a criminal offence — that is, he does not carry out more than six months of the decision of the court in force to reinstate his office. I mean, from this rostrum, right now, I'm making a formal appeal to the Attorney General about the crime. Please let the President know we have it today.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-14-m0.u155	Please respond.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-14-m0.u156	Let's finish, let's finish. You can draw the Minister of Internal Affairs to.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-14-m0.u157	Yuri Anatolyevich, you asked questions, hear the answer. () [[B in m in s a l in]]
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-14-m0.u158	Yuri Anatoliyovich, I ask you very much, in writing, please contact me on a specific matter, and I will certainly address this issue. Thank you, thank you. () [[B in m in s a l in]]
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-14-m0.u159	There's not a letter yet. Zabarsky, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-14-m0.u160	Dear Nina Ivanovna. I would also like to join those words in thanking you for your principle and consistency in your case of ombudsmen in protecting the rights of citizens. And I'd like to ask you a question. I know that for more than four years you have been working on a case of suicide in the building of an Alushta resident, a single mother who, as a result of an official's will, unfortunately backed up by the actions of the judiciary, has led to suicide. In this regard, I would like to know that you have taken steps to bring to justice all those responsible and those involved in this division. To date, we would like to know what the results of this situation are in the first place. And in general, how often do you get complaints about the actions of court officials, judges specifically, and how do you react?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-14-m0.u161	Thank you. The problem of the independence of the judiciary is extremely relevant and painful in Ukraine. A lot of references, one third of them, I've pointed out, to the actions of the judges and to the unfair trial. So the rights of Natalia Koboljevi, which is now five years in my life, a young single woman, mother was killed by one of the representatives of the femida in fact, gave us an example that we should continue to fight even if it cost us death. And we've brought the matter to a close today, but it took five years. Today, they're being held responsible for a five-year-old criminal and the person who did this crime against her directly, but he's hiding now. That's why I'm calling on Mr. Mogilov from this rostrum, and every day I ask you to pay attention to the search for Mr. Rusanov, who is involved in the suicide of the young mother of Natalia Koboljeva. And the last. Of course, when the judicial branch of government with business grows.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-14-m0.u162	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-14-m0.u163	It's a huge crime. And so, of course, with regard to the actions of such judges, I think that I did the right thing today by the Sevastopol Court, which has released this judge from office, but I'm sorry, it took us five years to fight. One judge and five years of fighting. So consider the stage at which we are all now living together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-14-m0.u164	Viacheslav Kirilenko. The corn is passed on.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-14-m0.u165	Viacheslav Kirilenko, Party for Ukraine! Dear Nina Ivanovna, you know there are political repressions in the country, unfortunately. Former government officials, former deputies, current opponents are being persecuted, and some of them are being held under arrest. I am personally deeply concerned about the situation that took place with Yuri Lucenko. You know, he's being held under absolutely strange circumstances, with a lot of specialty, now he's being held under arrest. You know, the Party for Ukraine!, the MPs from us and not just our party, require the immediate release of Lucenko. What's more, we're going to need to check what maintenance conditions are, and see if the information about the death row actually fits, and so on. The people’s deputies Grimczak and Donny addressed you, Nina Ivanovna, in order to allow you to visit Lucenko in the detention facility. Sadly, they were refused. I am now publicly addressing you once again as the Human Rights Council Commissioner, allowing me and other national MPs to visit.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-14-m0.u166	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-14-m0.u167	provide the opportunity to visit Yuri Lucenk in a detention facility, to communicate with him, and to find out what conditions he is in. In addition, we continue to demand the immediate release of Yuri Lucenka. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-14-m0.u168	Thank you for asking. I think it's no secret for Andrew Shevchenk that the Human Rights Commissioner met with the arrested Yuri Lucenko directly in the cell where he is. I brought my case directly to court. the requirement to change the measure of a precautionary measure that does not involve being deprived of the will. This is my public position, and it was published. He that wishes will hear. As far as the national MPs you spoke of are concerned. I met all the national MPs directly, and there was Mr. Yuri Carmazin. We found out all the questions they asked me, the questions they had asked me. At the College of the Attorney General's Office, I brought all of these questions to the Honorary College, stating that at least the very fact of the arrest and the procedure for the execution of the arrest was a brutal violation of the rights of Yuri Lucenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-14-m0.u169	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-14-m0.u170	So today, when his wife made a statement that Yuri Lucenka might be in danger of dying in those cells where he might be, I immediately met him directly in this cell, an hour and a half of my direct stay. I want to tell you, a three-person camera, 9 square meters, there's a radio station, there's a TV. Of course, it's a restriction of will. Clearly, these are all the conditions of the investigative isolation. But at least during that meeting, Mr. Lucenko did not complain, but he said that he would normally fight for a change in his precautions. And I will point out that he is willing to appear at all invitation of the investigator to the Attorney General’s Office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-14-m0.u171	Thank you, Nina Ivanovna. Have a seat, please. [[B in m in s a l in]] The replica will be later. Ten minutes, committee head, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-14-m0.u172	Please. Please. Dear colleagues, please, calm down!
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-14-m0.u173	Dear Head! Dear colleagues and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Hearing the annual report of the Human Rights Commissioner of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the status of respect for and protection of human rights and freedoms in Ukraine is one of the parliamentary mandates provided by article 85 of the Constitution of Ukraine, which allows for a focused and, above all, systematized information on the human rights situation in our country, to hear about the most painful problems with their security. In fact, each of the Ukrainian national deputies who meets with the electorate has a real idea of the state of human rights. And unfortunately. It's far from the desired level, from international standards and that amount of rights, and that's what the Constitution of our State proclaims. And the question here is not so in the absence of the relevant legislation adopted by the Supreme Council, I would like to stress this. It's the legislative base in this area that is, and it's not as bad as it is in many other countries. Questions about the enforcement of existing laws. I would like to highlight the issue of the implementation of an existing legislative framework. The Committee on Human Rights, National Minorities and International Relations has received more than a thousand appeals during the past period alone, and almost a third of them, 28 percent, are collective. Practically all these appeals are aimed at restoring the affected cases of applicants, ensuring that the legality and actual implementation of the human rights and freedoms enshrined in the Constitution are respected. According to an analysis of citizens’ appeals to the committee, there are several aspects that are of particular concern to our citizens. First of all, complaints about illegal methods of investigation, tortures that have already been reported, and other forms of cruel treatment of persons taken into custody and imprisoned, failure to provide them with adequate medical care, and denial of legal aid. I would like to point out that Ukraine is a party – for the sake of legislation – Ukraine is a party to an international convention to prevent torture. And in 2006, the Supreme Council ratified an optional protocol to the UN Convention against Torture, which requires the establishment of a national control mechanism to prevent torture. Thus, the preventive mechanism could be a separate, independent body with special status. And in our view, such an organ needs to be created without delay, which would prevent torture and reinforce control under the conditions of keeping people deprived of their will. Another important aspect that I would like to put my mind at rest is the excessive length of pretrial investigation in criminal matters and, as a result, the breach of custody periods. This leads to overcrowding of investigative isolations, conditions that are worse than those of the condemned. But I would like to point out that the guilt of these individuals has not yet been proved by the courts. The existence of an additional investigation institute in criminal proceedings often leads to people being held for years in detention centres without proving them guilty of committing a crime and, finally, violating the presumption of innocence. Let me give you an example. The committee was approached by Dubov, a citizen who has been held in a detention facility since 2002. The case went to further investigation, a precautionary action in the form of an eight - year standup, and eight - year - olds are held in a federal detention facility without being found guilty of a crime. And the sanction of an incriminating article has been foreseen for six years, and such cases are not unique. Questions about the elimination of the Institute of Additional Investigation have matured. I would like to make a few more important and relevant human rights issues that are not very popular. Human rights touch on various aspects of his life. The doctrine of human rights itself develops and is comprehensive. The modern concept of human rights singles out a third generation of human rights, to which so - called, collective rights apply: the right to peace, the right to environmental health, the right to freedom from discrimination based on sex, age, nationality. These rights are largely addressed to individual social groups that need additional safeguards to protect their rights. In the context of this, I want to talk about the rights of older people. Studies have shown that the most discriminated against population in Ukraine is the elderly. Those who have reached the age of 50 and who live in Ukraine are often discriminated against in the workplace and elsewhere. They are denied employment first, and they are released first when the workforce is cut. In view of this, the committee is actively working on the draft Ukrainian Law on Prevention of Discrimination against Older Persons and Older Persons in Ukraine, which is sponsored by Mikola Schershun, which will create conditions for an effective system of ensuring and protecting the rights of this category of citizens. I also want to highlight the protection of women’s rights, which have also been discussed, which are not uncommonly discriminated against by sex. Its main features are unemployment among women, both hidden and registered above that of men. Women’s wages are on average 72.5 percent of men’s wages. Women mostly work in education, medicine, the social sphere, and so on, where wages are lower than average in the national economy, leading to an increase in economic inequality between men and women. A woman works four or six hours longer than a man. Domestic work is not considered productive and is therefore not paid. Women who have children and who have been on parental leave become uncompetitive in the labour market. By the way, only 2 percent of the men took that vacation. Nearly 1 in 3 children is raised by a single parent. Women make up most of the migrant workers in Ukraine. Women suffer more from domestic violence. Women are practically not represented on the higher levels of authority and authority. Our committee is constantly working towards improving legislation in the field of gender equality, directly looking after these issues by Helen Bondarenko. Such efforts should be made by other committees of our Supreme Council and the entire Parliament. First of all, the legislation on working in this situation in the area of discrimination against citizens -- both women and older people -- must be amended in the field of labour relations. I would like to stress, with the details of the types of violations and the direct prohibition of specific discriminatory acts. In a civilized state, the central place in the entire legal system is the court. It is the court that is the key to the mechanism for the protection of human rights. Unfortunately, the effectiveness of the judicial system at this stage of its operation is low, everybody knows that. Today, the largest number of complaints by citizens are about court decisions, delays in court cases that run counter to all so - called reasonable terms. There are significant problems in ensuring the enforcement of court decisions. In addition, the lack of effectiveness of legal aid mechanisms free of charge or for affordable fees deprives the poor of protection, deprives the poor of the ability to properly defend their rights in court. Politicians can protect themselves, and poor people can't even afford it. Optimism only adds that everyone probably already has an understanding of the relevance of reforming the justice system and the first steps, I stress, only the first steps on this path have been taken. Today’s Commissioner’s report, like the previous report, contains conclusions and recommendations on ways to improve the status of human rights and freedoms. Thus, it cannot be just a barometer on the human rights situation. Because we cannot be statisticians and limit ourselves to hearing the facts of human rights violations. We should act as law - enforcement agents. This report should be used as a basis for further legislative activity. The Committee expresses its conviction that a systematic analysis of the implementation of the conclusions and recommendations contained in the annual reports on compliance and compliance will be carried out at the time.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-14-m0.u174	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-14-m0.u175	which are contained both in this year's and past annual reports of the Authorized High Council on Human Rights. And the committee of cooperation with the Commissioner will do so in the near future. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-14-m0.u176	Dear colleagues! We've completed our consideration of the question. Andrew Shevchenko has the right to reply. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-14-m0.u177	Thank you. You know, I think that Nina Ivanovna Karpachov, as our ally in the struggle for human rights and freedoms, was trying to mention my last name to give an answer anyway, who is responsible for the fact that in the last year there has been a deterioration in the human rights situation. We are assisted by an International Organization called Fried House, which, in the light of the 2010 census, removed Ukraine from the list of free countries. And I'm going to quote one sentence that concludes the report on Ukraine, this authoritative, rights-based international organization. She is responsible for the situation in Ukraine for President Viktor Yanukovic, who directly guided the deterioration of freedom of speech, the State's efforts to limit student activity, the intimidation of non-governmental organizations, and the increasing influence of executive power on the judicial system. Gentlemen! The new year starts, we have a unique moment right now, look at the government in the room, and empowered by human rights, I just want to remind you, you know, about reforms we're talking about, and we're closing down human rights and freedoms in real life. Let's change that, this is our joint mission.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-14-m0.u178	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we have completed our consideration of the issue, namely, the report of the Human Rights Council of Ukraine, Commissioner for Human Rights, on the status of respect for and protection of human rights and freedoms in Ukraine. Allow me, on your behalf, to thank the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for its work. [[Applause]] At the same time, I am convinced that there will be an increase in constructive cooperation between the Supreme Council and the Commissioner, I stress, the Supreme Council of Ukraine with human rights. And there will be no thesis that the whole problem or the key human rights problem is the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We do not need to talk about what is lacking in laws, nor do we need to follow the laws that are there. And I would ask everyone to understand that the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the Constitution is among the branches of power in the first place. Dear people's deputies, before we go to the conclusion of our work, I have to give you one piece of information because it's been resonated. In view of our colleague Boris Tarasyuk’s claim that the language bill was sent to the OSCE High Commissioner for National Minorities. There was a reaction and they directed their reflection on this bill. [[This respectable institution]] And, he said, the Supreme Council of Ukraine has hidden this bill, the Head of the Supreme Council has not met the national deputies -- I apologize -- with these conclusions, recommendations, as contained in the letter from the OSCE High Commissioner. Today, I had a series of calls and appeals from the national deputies, which required me to give them appropriate recommendations and conclusions. And I'm surprised by our colleague's position, given that we were talking to him yesterday, if I'm not mistaken that he never asked a question. And the problem is that the Supreme Council of Ukraine only received fax from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs this morning, and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has received this document, which needs to be translated and authenticated. So I would ask all of us not to look for problems where there are absolutely no problems. And, honourable national MPs, according to the calendar schedule for the seventh session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on January 14th, the conclusion of the seventh session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine was rescheduled. Dear National Deputies! Now at the closing ceremony of the seventh session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine there are: Prime Minister of Ukraine Mikola Janović Azarov and members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, Deputy Head of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, Head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, Head of the Supreme Administrative Court of Ukraine, Head of the National Bank of Ukraine, Commissioner of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights, Head of the Central Electoral Commission, Attorney-General of Ukraine, Head of the State Property Fund of Ukraine, Head of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine, Head of the High Council of Justice and other officials.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-14-m0.u179	I invite you to speak to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Vladimir Mikhailovich Litvina.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-14-m0.u180	Dear members of the government! Mikola Janovich! Dear leaders! Dear colleagues! I think that each of us is now experiencing a feeling that can be expressed in a single word -- at last. Finally, this exhausting, long, hard, difficult session ended. At the same time, it had its significant features, and I'm going to define them thesis. The first and key feature of this session is that this seventh session was the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So we switched the rubikin with you and, as it's fashionable to say right now, we passed the point of no return. And that's why we have every reason today to say that this Supreme Council of Ukraine is working out its constitutional term on one condition that we and you will do everything we can to raise understanding in the session room, to ensure constructiveism on a principled basis. I'm sure it will. What's more, and that's obvious, we're going to be pushed by the next election, and we're going to have to understand that we're going to have to report to people, not by words that love Ukraine better, but by practical actions that result in practical results. The second feature of this session. It is related to the fact that you and I, your respected colleagues, have worked in new constitutional realities. When the Supreme Council of Ukraine did not have such a strong argument in its relationship with the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the judicial system, in fact, it had no such decisive argument as a decisive influence on the personnel of the appointment. Clearly, this gave rise to the claim that the Supreme Council plays a subordinate role. But let's think about it, by 2006, the Supreme Council of Ukraine had been working in the same constitutional realities that we are working in today. And obviously we shouldn't be running the language like that, because they're leading whoever wants to lead it. Compromising and trying to find him is not giving up. Because he's looking at us and looking at the whole country. And maybe now people want to take a break from us and get together with their thoughts. And it's clear that we have to do things in such a way that we don't always try and enjoy ourselves everywhere. You know, one of the great things that seems to Napoleon is saying, "If a person likes everyone, it means that he doesn't have a life." This indicates that we must continue to have a calm, weighed position in the interests of Ukraine. Clearly, our party interests need to be regulated. Moreover, no one has taken control and representative functions from the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I'm stressing the control functions. And notice, now every committee has a signed law headed for proper parliamentary control. I am convinced that we are all aware that the Supreme Council is the center of dialogue and compromise. And that should be the power of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And I am grateful to the factions, first of all, and to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, that we have begun to find compromise and to realize that we cannot force each other. And I think in trying to make sense, we're going to see, not the weakness of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, but its strength. Finally, the third feature of this session that we are concluding. It is that new constitutional realities have influenced the organizational structure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. There has been a constitutional requirement in the past for the need to form a coalition in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and there has been, if you like, such a naturalistic or natural process of forming the majority. And under these circumstances, when there is no, let's be honest about the human preference, the fact that there is a coalition, today, very responsible for making those decisions and taking responsibility that will not always be, as one politician said to us, sweet, and will not be taken by society today, but without them we cannot live now. And I think we've had a process of pressing for new realities about the majority in the relationship between the majority and the opposition because of the conflicts, because of the opposition, but let's take the last parliamentary week. We found understanding and support among ourselves and made the necessary decisions. If any of you are dissatisfied, you can offer something better, a flag with a big wood in your hand - offer and do it. And let's at least show some tolerance here. Yes, we had both oppositions, and stiff, out of 58 plenary sessions, eight plenary sessions were not held on this subject. This is much less than it was in the previous period. And at the same time, we haven't looked at about 100 issues that were obviously important. That is why I see the main and key task, my fellow Members, of preserving parliamentaryism. So save democracy and, if you want, save Ukraine. I've been saying once again that in all matters, especially our organization of work, we should, in addition to everything else, demonstrate corporate solidarity. Then we'll probably have another situation, then the Supreme Council of Ukraine will be more counted. And at the same time, notice, despite the fact that the Supreme Council often made a decision on wheels, as soon as there was a problem of discontent, who was to blame? The daughter - in - law. And today we've heard that too. We should not be allowed to do so, but we will be treated as we allow ourselves to be treated by a higher representative body of the people. This attitude, in fact, toward the people, must certainly be at the height of the demands. We need to answer the questions, Your Honor, the key. Now people are writing letters, and notice, the mass is now out of people's letters. They say: How are you going to build Ukraine if you don't know how to talk to each other? We need to draw appropriate conclusions and learn to listen, especially by listening to each other and conducting a dialogue. We are doomed to understanding, and according to the outcome. What's more, we find this understanding, your esteemed colleagues. Speaker's statistics: 38 percent of the laws we passed in this session are voted by the constitutional majority, 38 percent of the bills. The fourth feature. The Supreme Council of Ukraine ventured to enact basic system laws. It's hard, hard, bony, because of the conflict, but we're on our way. Of the laws already signed by the President that were passed in this session, 21, i.e. every sixth law was passed in a new or updated edition. This is already a good thing. And it's clear that you and I have been taught a lesson, dear colleagues, about how to approach the adoption of extremely sensitive, such basic laws. A clear example of this is the Tax Code. Obviously, we all came to the conclusion. And the fifth specialty. It is that the dominance of the Supreme Council has increased in the legislative process. Yes, it was only during the session that 758 issues were discussed, i.e. bills, no questions, 21 of them from the President of Ukraine, 138 from the Cabinet of Ministers, 3 from the National Bank, 596 from the Ukrainian National Deputies. Let us add more than 300 organizational regulations here. What does this indicate? This indicates that we also find understanding with other institutions of authority. It is not uncommon for reform laws to be signed by the Ukrainian people's deputies, allowing this bureaucratic process of coming to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and I think it's a big plus. Just like the fact that the number of laws committed by the President of Ukraine has decreased, that is, through consultation and reconciliation of positions, we are leading them to a higher condition. And the sixth part of the session is the rise in negative assessments of draft laws. Consider the following: 70 percent of the draft national MPs in the total number considered at this session have been withdrawn. As far as government and presidential bills are concerned, government laws are units. Presidential bills have not been given a negative assessment. The question is, obviously, we still have to answer that question. That's the principle, is that the quality of the bill? Obviously, we will need to continue to consider that laws may have a name. What if it's a quality law to let them know it's the law of such a national MP, the Jackson-Venic amendment, everyone knows it's a document. Yeah? So let's maybe think about that proposal. Clearly, this would be to some extent in conflict with the constitutional procedure. And the seventh feature of the session is marked, and I think this should be highlighted in particular by the significant activation of the international activities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I am convinced that this is very true, because today there must be a dialogue between the peoples, and this dialogue is primarily through Parliament. That's a statistic. During the session, seven official delegations visited the official delegations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to other countries. Accordingly, we accepted seven official delegations in Ukraine. Let us add to this exchange of visits by parliamentary groups of friendships, which have been substantially intensified, to the establishment of relations at the committee level. Our presence in international parliamentary organizations is more noticeable. Ukraine took the lead in PACES, the work of joint commissions and assemblies was being reproduced. And that's a very good sign that we need to give new dynamism. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no need to discuss the importance of the next session. But one thing is obvious to us is that it will require special endurance, responsibility, tolerance, and, of course, a professional approach to our work. I hope and I believe that we are able to provide this kind of work by subordinated our party positions to this work. What's more, there are a thousand 100 bills currently under way in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, of which nearly 160 are already ready for second reading. So we have something to do since February 1st. Dear colleagues, thank you to the government for your cooperation. Thank you all for working so hard. And thank you for putting up with this session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-14-m0.u181	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, this session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the sixth call I declare closed.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-01-14-m0.u182	Dear colleagues, pursuant to article 83 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the eighth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will begin its work on Tuesday, February 1, 2011.
