ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:00:55]] They registered in the 314 national deputies’ session hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues! Today is the birthday of our colleague, the national deputy of Ukraine, John Alexander the Rabbit. Please welcome him and wish him success in all aspects of life. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, I give you the summary of the plenary work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine from June 14 to 17. There were 6 plenary sessions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, 93 issues of the agenda were discussed, 19 laws and 19 regulations were adopted, 18 bills were adopted, 2 bills were sent to the Committee for Re-reading, 4 bills and 1 draft decree were converted to the subject of the legislative initiative, 27 bills and 4 draft regulations were rejected. As a result of the President of Ukraine's proposals, 2 laws have been passed in general, taking into account the proposals made by the President of Ukraine. A 101-member request has been made. I would like to draw your attention, fellow Members, to the fact that if we considered 93 issues of the agenda last plenary week, this plenary week is 40 percent more of the schedule for our work. So, honourable colleagues, on the Conciliation Council, we agreed that after the factions, I would put a motion on the vote to work until the finalization of Tuesday's scheduled issues, and so on, all the following days. Thank you for your understanding. Dear National Deputies! According to article 25 of the Rules, on Tuesday, 30 minutes are allocated for presentations by authorized factions and groups. Please sign up for the performance. [[Writing MPs on the show]] Please put the names of the national MPs on the board. Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Next is Kamchatny.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u2	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Respectable citizens! Today, after a 20-year road to establishing a new state, everyone has probably already been able to ask themselves, where did we go wrong? Is the economic model optimal for Ukraine for two decades being built up completely by all authorities, all governments? The economic models of the Western world can be divided into two main groups: the first model, the American model, provides for a large number of millionaires and billionaires. At the same time, 3.5 million people live on the street in this country, and 1 in 7 is officially poor. Another model is Scandinavian, predicting the domination of wealthy people in the country, with very small numbers of both the wealthy and the chronically poor. Instead, in practice, the country has gone into a distorted American economy, and Ukraine takes first place in Eastern Europe for the number of billionaires. At the same time, the vast majority of the population are dissatisfied with the growing gap — social inequality. So either Ukrainian or poor -- or very rich and hardly any intermediate options. This raises the question of why we don't have an economic model that produces a numerical advantage for just wealthy citizens, because in many European countries it works quite successfully. The answer is simple. Economic relations that do not belong to our people have been established and imposed. Because our philosophy and our perception of the world is rejecting all injustice, because in the Ukrainian mentality, it's not the perception of extremes, and it's the greater gap between poverty and wealth. Because we do not accept a system that makes the rich even richer simply because the majority is poor. You lose respect for a man's work, you're artificially implanting a new ideal for a man without morals and humanity, the ideal of a human-gamman. Ukraine’s main problem is that people who have always been hardworking lose their incentives to productive work. We're not naive, and we realize that total equality is impossible under any management, in any model. But at the same time, this cannot at all justify the total inequality that has been established in Ukraine for two decades. And it is no wonder that under such circumstances the dissatisfaction with the State’s fault is hardly the main unifying factor for the Ukrainian people, irrespective of which party won the election. And the first thing we have to do to get back to the perspectives that we dreamed of in the late '80s, which is why we went through the '90s, which we think we're finally starting to understand in the early 2000s, is to encourage a worker to work productively, and to promote a person to a better life. And one of the important steps on this path is to increase productivity by increasing the cost of each employee, increasing the share of wages per unit of productivity. And then the excuse for yachts and Bentleys will be the innovative technologies, the technologies of the future that will be used by owners, not the use of low-paid human labor, as if the country had returned to the 20th century. And the last. The rich, in fact, will never share with the poor. This is no more than a populist slogan that justifies the income gap in Ukraine. People's work must be paid to help the weak in the country, and all niches must be encouraged to be highly productive.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u3	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u4	And everyone else has been encouraged to work highly productively and highly paidly, so that the state is not thinking about raising the minimum wage, but about the prospect of growth. A Ukrainian citizen needs to have faith in himself and faith in tomorrow. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u5	Vladimir Caplienko, MP for the Future. Alexei will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u6	Dear fellow Ukrainian citizens, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich! Given that there is only one plenary week left until the end of the session, the MP's Reform for the Future calls for the consolidation of all parliamentary factions in order to actually take reform steps at the legislative level that are essential for the dynamic development of our state. In this regard, we suggest that we put aside all the questions that are of interest to the oligarchs and certain financial and economic groups and have nothing to do with the interests of the state and society. In our view, first of all, this week, we need to work on such a socially significant issue as land reform. Its further progress is not possible without taking into account the Law on the State Land Cadastre, which is being prepared for consideration in the second reading. Without a transparent and accessible land register, it is not possible to continue implementing land reform and creating a civilized land market. Next. Discussion of a bill on legislative measures for pension reform under registration number 7455 is painful, unpopular, but essential, step for reforming the solidarity pension system. It will provide the basis for the next steps of power and us with you as: reforming the pension system, introducing the cumulative level of the pension system, the introduction of state and non-state savings funds, the introduction of new corporate and professional pension schemes for Ukraine. The respective rights of the MP's Reform for the Future have been sent to the profile committee. Another reforming step should be the adoption of the whole Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the elimination of excessive government regulation in the field of road transport, which our motorists had been waiting for. The abolition of the mandatory technical review of non-commercial vehicles proposed by this law will allow the destruction of established corruption schemes from the purchase of vouchers by the owners of vehicles, which will certainly be supported by the MP group Reform for the Future. We should also mention the State Procurement Act, as we hoped, and call on the guarantor of the Constitution, the President of Ukraine has applied the veto power in view of the corruption component established in the body of this legislative act. The deputy faction of Reforms for the Future supports the proposal of the head of state for his approval with the President's comments, because this law is very important for the normal functioning of the state and society, as well as for the release from the corrupt schemes of the public procurement system. But in doing so, we note that we have insisted on this bill, and we will insist on taking into account the following rights regarding the inability to make changes to existing contracts within a public procurement contract at a public cost for such indicators as quality, quantity, cost and delivery terms. In the event that these components are not taken into account, the MP's Reform for the Future will have to register its Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Current Ukrainian Law on State Procurement, where we will be unable to further change components such as terms, terms, quality and cost. The parliamentary group of Reforms for the Future stresses the priorities of the bills and calls on all parliamentary factions to adopt them without exception until the end of this eighth session. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u7	Igor Alexeyev, Communist faction. Next to the faction "BUT" – "Fatherland" Tishchenko or who else will it be? Ivan Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u8	Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! With the insistence of the government, particularly Deputy Prime Minister Tihypak, to implement at any cost the requirement of the International Monetary Fund and at this session to oppose the adoption of the law on so-called pension reform, our faction considers it necessary to restate its position on this issue and to confirm that, in the manner in which the reform is presented by the government for final approval by Parliament, we will not support it. First of all, the basic provisions of the pension reform, the increase in employment for retirement, the recalculation of pensions for working retirees severely violate the requirements of article 22 of the Constitution, the decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. Therefore, if such a reform is adopted, all discussions about Ukraine as the rule of law can be concluded. Secondly, how can retirement age be increased when a huge number of citizens, including the vast majority of men, do not live to the present retirement age? Perhaps the Ukrainian authorities are right to build a unique country in the world where there will be no pensioners? Thirdly, doing so, with the permission to say reform, will make the situation of the vast majority of citizens much worse. The problem is that hundreds of thousands of people, especially young people, are involved in working life after school. Unemployment, especially among people of pre - retirement age, will increase significantly. With the external attractiveness of the so-called cumulative level of pension reform, let's face it, it's actually about trying to translate the government into the workers themselves to form the Pension Fund. Besides, who can guarantee that the pension funds will not be undervalued or stolen from the various banks by the time the workers retire? I understood the complexity of the demographic situation, the filling of the Pension Fund. But the solutions to these problems are not to increase retirement age, not to translate into working burdens related to pension financing. Getting the economy out of the shadows, the real development of domestic industrial production, raising the fair level of wages, the cost of production and the responsible price policy of the state -- the very ones on which the policy of shaping and filling the Pension Fund should be based. But these whales have not been observed by the independent Ukrainian authorities for 20 years. What prevents us from taking a decisive step and, in the case of most European countries, introducing a really different system of progressive taxation of income and luxury goods? About which Ukrainian Europeanism can be talked about when people's lives are declining, millions of Ukrainian citizens are being rejected not just beyond poverty and survival, but Ukrainian dollar billionaires' incomes are rising at a fast pace, and their wealth is already more than half of Ukraine's gross domestic income. What social state and just social policy, led by Mr. Tihypco, can be discussed when the burden of seeking funds to pay pensions is transferred to citizens, and the government has allocated millions of dollars to the U.S. diaspora to build a monument to victims of the so - called famine in Washington. Dear citizens, I address everyone, regardless of what language you speak, in which God you believe, as long as the social product is adapted and distributed among a few dozen business families, while the economy is closely connected with the criminal world, and the public institutions are corrupt, all reforms will be directed solely to the interests of these business families, not to ordinary people, whether it's a small medium-sized enterprise, whether it's a hired employee or a budgeter. Look at Europe. Why not in France, in the UK, in Portugal, in Greece, in Spain, in mass protests against pension reform, against social spending cuts, against capital and large corporations on social and economic rights. Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u9	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u10	Socio-economic rights of citizens are not successful? And because that's not possible, as long as capitalism remains the dominant system. And for those who naively believe stories about capitalism with a human face, and if Communists come to power, people will be deprived of their property, in response to Marx's words, which very vividly and conveniently showed the difference between capitalism and communism: "Communism does not deprive anyone of the possibility of acquiring a social product, it only deprives them of the possibility of incarcerating another person's work." Our citizens should know about this. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u11	Thank you! Thank you. Ivan Grigorovich Kirilenko, "BUT" faction. Alexander Ephraim will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u12	Dear fellow countrymen, the faction authorized me to declare the following. On June 24, an unprecedented trial began. In the Cave Court of Kiev, politicians, statesman, head of the previous government, Julius Timoshenko, judge. In all those who observe this process not only in Ukraine, but also far beyond it, one question is, "Why?" The community of a democratic world has already given its answer. In Ukraine opposition has been removed from the political arena, and a number of well - known politicians and statesmen have made this clear. The European Parliament adopted the decision, and the U.S. government made a clear statement. And the High Representative of the European Union in the Ukraine of Tejscheir, who personally saw the beginning of the trial, said bitterly: "The terms in which the trial against Yulia Tymoshenko takes place are inhuman. We have no right to intervene in the trial, but we consider the charges to be unfounded." We are also supported by numerous supporters, and this is based on the independent conclusions of authoritative international organizations. The BDO Auditorship Company, fifth in the world rating to order today’s government, conducted a thorough audit of the use of Kyoto money, with a clear conclusion that this money was not spent by the government of Tymoshenko for its purpose. And here's the conclusion of the world's leading law firm Covington & Burling, which literally says, "The charges against Yulia Timoshenko are not worth the paper they're on." The conclusion of another universally recognized Ernst & Young auditing company on gas contracts reads: "In 2010, not only was there no damage in the transport of Russian gas to Ukraine, but the state saved more than a billion dollars compared to 2008." As for the becimto of the exceedance of powers, there are two official documents of the Attorney General's Office and the Ministry of Justice, which clearly state: "The conclusion of the experts is that the directives for negotiations with Gazprom cannot be considered in the understanding of the government's directives, which are governed by Ukrainian legislation." And the requirements for approval by the government of these directives are neither provided by the Naftogazu NAC statute nor by any other legislation of Ukraine. These arguments are already sufficient to question the grounds for the accusation. Sadly, the opposite is yet to be observed. The absurdity of the situation is that the state loses its reputation as a country with civilized and independent justice. If such a person is not able to protect himself in this morning, what can be said about investors, entrepreneurs, and ordinary citizens? We all want stability and harmony, peace in our home. They are difficult to reach when there is no dialogue and understanding between power and civil society, which is an integral part of opposition. Another idea is not simply the right to life, it is heard in countries that are commonly called democratic and civilized. This is the mechanism that removes and even prevents political tension, for it has long been understood that it is better to let a steamer out of a boiling pot than to turn the hooks over its lid. Is it better to know the laws of physics, because in this case they are very similar to the laws of society? And the last. And this week, and by the end of the trial, the faction, in spite of any provocation, of any pressure, of any persecution, of interrogation, of the faction will be in the courtroom to support its leader, to protect people's right to freedom and democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u13	Alexander Efraemov, faction of the Party of the Regions. Next is Mikola Martinenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u14	Respectable voters, respectable colleagues! The members of the Party of the Regions are well aware that the results obtained by the country in the form of an additional 14 billion in the budget up to 2011 are the first positive responses to the economic reforms that have begun, which have also confirmed that the main objective of the reform for the President and the entire vertical government has been and remains an improvement in the standard of living of the people. The recovery of the economy as a result of the action of the authorities increased budget salaries by 12.6 per cent for the first time since 2008. This means that an average of 340 grevens will receive more from a teacher, 300 bracelets from a doctor. In addition, teachers and health professionals will be paid salary allowances. Having achieved economic growth, the power must ensure that every Ukrainian feels this success through an increase in his personal income. That is what will be done in the future. Regrettably, however, the reform work has not been without mistakes, the main of which has not yet come to the heart of reforms before each individual. My meetings with voters show that both the people's deputies and the representatives of the executive authorities need to engage more actively in dialogue with the citizens, inform them of what has been done for every citizen of our country, listen and respond to the voter's comments on all legislative innovations. In this work, it is more common to recall the words of Poland's economic reform initiator, Lešek Belcerovic, that reforms themselves take far less power and time than the voter's belief in their needs. The wind of positive change has touched not only the process within the country but beyond it. At a qualitatively new level, we are developing Ukraine's external economic relations. For the first time in the last decade, our country has been visited by the leader of China. The main outcome of his visit was the establishment of a strategic partnership with the second largest economy in the world today. Contracts for $3.5 billion and seven investment project contracts have been signed. The constructive tone after the “orange” stalemate has returned to our dialogue with the Russian Federation. Negotiations on the establishment of a free trade zone with the European Union have been intensified. For the first time in its history, Ukraine chaired a committee of the Council of Ministers of Europe. Speaking at the PASE session in Strasbourg, President Viktor Yanukovic reaffirmed the persistence of the strategic course for European integration, he assured that meeting the commitments made to the Council of Europe remained a fundamental position of Ukraine. For the first time in 20 years, power has finally moved on from the words to the fight against corruption. With the entry into force of the Presidential Law on the Basis for Countering Corruption in Ukraine on 1 July, this shameful phenomenon has been declared an unforgivable war. In addition, as stressed by the President, without regard to the political affiliation of the corrupt. And it is not just the words of the representatives of the current authorities that are being brought to justice by 478 people today. We will establish a system in which the punishment for violations of the law and the authorities will be irresistible. In the State, it is true to put into practice a slogan supported by the people: the law is one for all and I would add, without exception. Dear colleagues, this week concludes the eighth session of the sixth assembly, which places a special responsibility on our work. We have an obligation to ensure the country's productive economic package by enacting laws that Parliament has supported on first reading. They are all on the agenda, and the task of each faction member in four sessional days is to remove all contradictions and variances and to adopt quality documents that will give the economy increased opportunities.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u15	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u16	The faction of the Party of the Regions invites all of you, distinguished colleagues, to constructive, effective legislative activities at the final direct eighth session of the sixth. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u17	Mikola Martinenko, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u18	Dear fellow countrymen, dear colleagues! The eighth session of the Supreme Council ends, and its conclusion is clear to all: The authorities have turned the country in the wrong direction. And it happened because of the active passive participation of the vast majority. The ancient rulers said, "The promise is a duty." And for today's government, promises are empty words. To take on foreign policy, authorities with the paphos of an agent of a trading firm spoke of fine relations with Russia and cheap gas. For Russia, everything is wonderful, and the price of gas for Ukraine remains the highest in Europe. It was necessary to change the price formula, as the Europeans did, but the authorities showed their inability to defend our national interests. With each month, Ukraine and its citizens are paying more and more for gas, and the creation of a joint venture on two to control our gas transport system will mean the end of Ukraine's economic sovereignty. In the European direction, there is also a complete footstep. By the end of this year, the leaders of the state had made a loud promise to the Ukrainians of a visa-free regime, then to the Euro-2012, but the Europeans had lowered our power from the visa-free heavens to the sinful land: there would be no cancellation of visas to the football championship, and in general, it was unknown when there would be. Similarly, they are set aside for an uncertain future area of free trade with the EU and the Political Association Agreement. Not surprisingly, there is no real action, and no one believes the promises of power anymore. European politicians are about to resort to Ukrainian leadership every day in the face of political opposition: Lucenka, who continues to be held behind bars on ridiculous charges; Timoshenko, against whom the authorities have started a dirty court. With that kind of baggage, not to integrate into Europe, but to Africa, and it's on the question. And internal socio-economic policy. The government has unleashed a real war against its own people, boldly calling it reform, such as tax terror that has already cost hundreds of thousands of jobs to small entrepreneurs; a pension genocide that robs millions of old people and forces them to work virtually to death; and housing intervention with the expulsion of citizens from their own homes. In particular, at the end of this session, the authorities planned to finally adopt anti-national pension changes, and the scandalous Kabminou Bill not only seeks socially vulnerable citizens, they are mass-returned, but it also removes the ban on privatizing our gas transport system. [[7562]] In all its actions, the government confirms the truth: In a deadlocked situation, there is a stalemate of thinking. This is also true of the discredit of parliamentaryism, of the role of the Supreme Council in the mechanical voting of the majority by the wave of the hand. It may be that the fall in the pro-dominant deputies will begin with sobering up at least on important issues. We need to make a real assessment of the situation, not react to court decorating. The first step can be to introduce personal voting and to comply with the requirements of the Constitution. At this session, most of the sensory button is down, but we're going to insist on its introduction from September, sooner or later it's going to happen. And the process of leaving Ukraine from the dead to where it was led by a team of professional promiseors will begin the 2012 parliamentary elections. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u19	Ladies and gentlemen, the factions are over. For proposals that need response, I ask the secretariat to prepare appropriate assignments. Dear colleagues! Two factions: the faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense" and the faction "The Yulia Timoshenko" – "The Father's" require a 30-minute recess to be announced for the consultation. At the same time, the factions agreed to make a statement. Arsenius Petrovich Yatzenuk has a word for the statement.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u20	Dear National Deputies! I would like to raise the issue of justice, justice and justice, and more specifically the courts, injustice and the lack of any possibility of a fair hearing. I'm not just talking about former Prime Minister Timoshenko and former Interior Minister Yuri Lucenka right now, I'm talking about millions of Ukrainians who can't go to court who have no right to defend themselves, who have no right to defend their rights. See what's going on in the Ukrainian judicial system? For every 500 convictions, only one is justifiable. Ukraine is the tenth country in the world in terms of the number of people convicted and imprisoned, before us, the United States and China. So I am fully aware of what the judicial system of Ukraine has become today. The judicial system has become a mechanism of political persecution and struggle against those who are disagreeable with the authorities. That is why today we demand an explanation of why, for example, the judge who judges the former Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine has several criminal cases violated? What right does he have to judge? Perhaps he has the right to be on the bench of the condemned. Why does a judge who is not even appointed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine consider one of the most resonant and complex cases of modern Ukraine, namely the case of former Prime Minister Yulia Timoshenko of Ukraine? That's why we demand that the Ukrainian Attorney General's Office here, in the walls of Parliament, give an explanation. First of all, criminal cases have been violated in relation to these courts. Secondly, she explained why the Ukrainian national deputies, such as Steshenko, Semerak, Lemza, Zabzaluk, Korge, Shago, Senchenko, were present at a court hearing regarding the case against former Prime Minister Yulia Timoshenko, are now being summoned to the prosecutor's office for explanations and for questioning. We are addressing the head of the High Court of Criminal Justice and the civilian court with a request. Come to the rostrum of Parliament, this Parliament appoints judges on an untimely basis, and explain to us whether it is a judicial system, whether it is a mechanism for destroying and persecuting opposition. We demand justice and justice! I want to speak to Ukraine and the Ukrainians: do not be afraid, we are stronger, because the truth is behind us! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u21	Ladies and gentlemen, let us move on to the issues set out in the schedule for today. But before that, dear fellows, I would like to make a point, please, and I'm going to put a motion on the vote so that we can continue the evening plenary session until we have completed our consideration of the issues identified by the schedule. One minute, I'm voting on the proposal of the Conciliation Council. Continue the meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine pending the completion of the issues scheduled for July 5, 2011. Please vote. The rules provide for a decision to be taken in the morning. You all want to look at all the questions, let's look at them. [[10:34:27]] For 226 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I am now voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the daily draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the Armed Forces of Ukraine. [[on the use of weapons in peacetime]] Please vote. [[10:35:03]] For 260 Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine. [[on improving legal regulation]] Please vote. [[10:35:34]] For 256 Decision taken. I am voting on the draft Law on the Specificities of State Oversight in the Field of Economic Activity for Business Persons and Legal Persons, which apply the simplified system of taxation, accounting and reporting, for inclusion in the agenda. [[Registration number 8610]] Please vote. [[10:36:13]] For 263 Decision taken. I am voting on the draft Act amending article 75 of the Ukrainian Tax Code for inclusion in the agenda. [[on unregistered taxpayers]] [[Registration number8609]] Please vote. [[10:36:44]] For 270. Decision taken. I would like to vote on the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act amending Chapter XX, Section 2, Transitional Positions, of the Ukrainian Tax Code. [[on the exemption from tax on the added cost of equipment for the equipment of the airports of the cities receiving the championship]] [[Registration number 8278]] Please vote. [[10:37:24]] For 266 Decision taken. I'm betting on a draft amendment to the "Honorable Literacy and Grammy of the Supreme Council of Ukraine" regulation for inclusion in the agenda. [[Registration number 8584]] [[10:37:54]] For 265 Decision taken. I am voting on the inclusion in the agenda of the day project of the 60th anniversary decree of the Ukrainian Peace Council. [[8604]] [[10:38:24]] For-81 The decision is not taken. I'm betting on a vote to put the 70th anniversary of Baba Jaru's tragedy into order. [[Registration number 8605]] Please vote. [[10:38:53]] For 304 Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal to include gambling in the agenda of the daily draft of the Gambling Act. [[Registration number 8401]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[10:39:20]] For-13. The bill was rejected. I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the daily draft Act amending the Tax Code of Ukraine to review the rates of certain taxes and assemblies. [[Registration number 8630]] Please vote. [[10:39:51]] For 215 The decision is not taken. I am voting on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code for the temporary reduction of excise duty rates. [[Registration number 8731]] Please vote. [[10:40:24]] For-95 The decision is not taken. I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine. [[on strengthening land use control]] [[Registration number 8385]] Please vote. Please vote. [[10:40:54]] For 252 Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2011. [[on the development of physical culture and sports]] [[Registration number 8688]] Please vote. [[10:41:31]] For-286 Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2011. [[on the payment of debt to the State budget of Ukraine for sub-credits granted to energy-generating companies]] [[Registration number 8718]] Please vote. [[10:42:08]] For 235 Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the Draft Act of Amendments to certain legislative acts in connection with the optimization of the functions of the central executive body in the sphere of ecology and natural resources. [[concerning the granting of documents of a permissive nature]] Please vote. [[10:42:42]] For 272 Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on State Procurement. [[on oil and petroleum products]] [[Registration number 8727]] Please vote. [[10:43:12]] For 244 Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act amending the Law on the Transfer of Objects of State and Municipal Property. [[on water infrastructure engineering facilities]] [[Registration number 8048]] Please vote. [[10:43:49]] For 268. Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Contracts for Distribution of Produce. [[on the list of plots]] [[Registration number 8712]] Please vote. [[10:44:21]] For 240 Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law "On List of Items of State Property Rights that Are Not Privatized". [[on reducing the number of non-privatisation enterprises]] [[Registration number 8725]] Please vote. [[10:44:55]] For 233 Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine on the settlement of the debt for electricity. [[Registration number 8717]] Please vote. [[10:45:29]] For 235 Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the licensing of services in natural monopoly markets. Please vote. [[10:45:59]] For 263 Decision taken. I would like to place a motion for inclusion in the agenda of the Assisting Motherhood Act. [[Registration number 8703]] Please vote. [[10:46:24]] For 238. Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda a draft Act on the characteristics of leases or concessions of buildings of the fuel-energy complex that are owned by the State. [[Registration number 8705]] Please vote. [[10:46:55]] For 235 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we have voted on the issues that pertain to the chapter "Inclusion into the Day Row." I'm asking the committees to look at these bills, those that are already being prepared for consideration, and then we're going to look around at the evening session. Honourable National Deputies, I am announcing for the consideration of the draft Law amending some Ukrainian legislation on the elimination of excessive government regulation in the field of road transport. [[second reading]] The rapporteur is the first deputy head of the Committee for the Legislative Protection of the Law Enforcement Activities of Vladimir Olijnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u22	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! A committee on law enforcement is prepared for consideration in a second reading submitted by the President of Ukraine to amend some Ukrainian legislation on the elimination of excessive government regulation in the field of road transport. I would like to remind you that a bill submitted with the aim of eliminating excessive government regulation in the field of road transport provides: a mandatory technical review is being abolished for light vehicles not used for commercial purposes, the procedure for mandatory technical control for other means of transport is being significantly simplified, the State Inspectorate of the Ministry of State removes the mandatory technical control of transport vehicles, and these powers are passed on to operators, the requirements for the mandatory presence in the driving of a road ticket and the notary certificate of trust in the transport vehicle. In the process of preparing the bill for consideration in the second reading, it received 70 proposals from law - enforcement entities, 23 of which were taken into account in whole or in part, 47 were rejected. I would like to point out that amendment number 4 on page 2 of the table is an amendment by the Ukrainian national deputy Yuri Karmazin, this amendment is actually considered by the committee, and that what was rejected is written incorrectly. Please take this into account. I would also like to point out that after the deadline for the submission of proposals to the bill, amendments were made by the Ukrainian national deputies Griesenka and Landik, who suggest that paragraph 21 prime should be made in a different edition. Part one of the first article of article 11 of the Police Act, since the amendments proposed in the first reading would lead to a substantial narrowing of citizens' rights and freedoms and contain a subjective factor, and essentially elements of corruption. This amendment is not included in the table and has not been considered at the committee meeting. At the same time, the committee is of the opinion that there is no need to post the entire paragraph 21 prime in the new edition. the presence of a subjective factor can only be demonstrated by the words: "if the nature of the movement of the vehicle raises suspicion of the ability of the driver to control it, the sharpness and periodic change in the direction of movement, or the speed mode." Therefore, the availability of the agreement of the session hall is suggested to exclude these words from paragraph 21 prime. Part 1 of article 11 of the Ukrainian Police Act and this is on page 12 of the chart. The committee proposes to adopt the bill in the second reading and generally as a law. Millions of our motorists are waiting for him. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u23	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we will now go to the repairs. 3 revisions. Yuri Prokopchuk, are you insisting on her? No, it's not. The 4th Carmagine is accounted for.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u24	Counted.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u25	Counted. 6th, Prokopchuk. No, it's not. 8th Yuri Carmazin. Do you insist, Yuri Anatolyovich? Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u26	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I offer to sanction part four. Article 121 reads: “deprives the right to drive a vehicle for a period of three to six months, or repairs for a period of up to two months, or the removal of a means of transport for a period of up to six months, with a further return”. On the basis of this, this change is aimed at mitigating responsibility for the commission of the offence, since the arrest is an arrest that is expressed in depriving a person of his will and in accordance with article 32 of the Code is only applied in exceptional cases. I believe that this attraction does not correspond to the nature and extent of the damage to the offence. At the same time, it is recommended to apply for a given offence such as repair or removal of a vehicle for a period of up to six months with a further return. I would like to point out that this type of compression, such as the removal of a means of transport, is not provided for in the Codex. However, part two of article 24 allows for the law and others other than those mentioned.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u27	This amendment has been rejected, as there is no punishment in the legislation, such as the removal of a transport vehicle with further return. In addition, the author does not propose a mechanism to implement this standard.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u28	I'll bet the vote on amendment eight. [[10:52:49]] For the 17th. Correction not supported. The 10th Jury Carmazin Amendment. Are you insisting on her? Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u29	Ladies and gentlemen, I thank those who voted in favour. And I'd like to tell you, the law allowed us to set up other, unspecified types of administrative strings. This is provided for in the second article 24. I suggest in part eight of article 121, the following wording: "By means of transport, in articles 121-126, 127-1, 128 strokes, in parts one and two of Part One 128, in parts one and four of Article 130, Articles 132 prim, 133 prim, 133-2, 139 and 140, the vehicles and means of transport defined by the Ukrainian Automobile Transport Act, as well as tractors and other self-propelled vehicles, trams and trolleybuses, as well as motorcycles and other means of transport." The proposed amendment is made for the purpose of editorial and technical clarification of the bill 'cause it considers it necessary to refer to the term 'transport'.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u30	The committee's proposing a rejection.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u31	I'll bet the vote on the tenth amendment. Please be sure. [[10:54:23]] For-12. Correction not supported. Correction of the 16th Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u32	Yuri Carmazin. I thank you for the adjustments that are included in this, because we have fruitful cooperation with the committee, they counted two-thirds, but I want the law to be even better. As a result, at the end of the 16th amendment, I propose in article 127. Part one, put it like this. "The improper conduct of a responsible person to verify the technical condition of a means of transport which is subject to mandatory technical control or to issue a document to the responsible person on the technical fitness of a means of transport which has not undergone a proper examination of its technical condition shall entail the imposition of a fine on the person responsible for carrying out the technical examination and the issuance of a document on the technical validity of 80 to 100 untaxed minimum rates of income of citizens." Since this article provides for responsibility for various offences and does not clearly distinguish its subjects, which can lead to significant contradictions in the application of this standard, I propose that two be clearly distinguished.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u33	The committee's proposing a rejection.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u34	I'm betting on the vote of Amendment 16 Yuri Karmazin. [[10:55:59]] For -6 Correction not supported. 17th, Yuri Prokopchuk. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u35	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, in view of the fact that this bill has been discussed on the profile committee, I ask that it be accounted for, so all of my amendments that are taken into account -- they remain, which is not -- you may not sound, I do not insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u36	Thank you. Dear colleagues, Amendment 29. Ribakov, is he insisting on her? No, it's not. Amendment 32. Yuri Carmazin, are you insisting on her? Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u37	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you carefully to address the question. I propose in the Ukrainian Police Act in article 11 of the first paragraph of paragraph 21 the word "stop vehicles only in case." Replace "stop the means of transport exclusively in cases." A well-founded, respectable friend of mine, a traffic jam is supposed to be buried on the road -- we can't stop it at any time. It has to be clearly written in the law: exclusively in cases like this. When you come from abroad and you see that in Ukraine you have fat people standing on the roads who can't even run anything, and they feed, they feed on that stick, they become ashamed of this state, and it's very hard to explain something to foreigners when they turn. Because of this, everything has to be regulated by law alone, and no orders and nothing else. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u38	Dear colleagues! The committee doesn't think it's necessary, it doesn't have to be written in a new edition, but it's important to exclude these words, because you just have to think about what a DAI worker has the right to stop the means of transport only in cases, especially when the nature of the vehicle's movement raises suspicion of the driver's inability to drive it. It's a sharp periodic shift in movement and direction, and a high-speed mode -- it's always going to be a subjective factor. And in this respect, please support the committee's proposal to exclude these words.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u39	Dear colleagues! I'm voting on Yuri Carmazin's proposal. [[10:58:41]] For -14 Correction not supported. And you propose to the committee once again, Volodymyr Mikolayovich, make it out, we'll put it to the vote now.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u40	So it's a committee proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u41	May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u42	The committee proposes to exclude the following words, "if the nature of the movement." "if the nature of the vehicle's movement raises suspicion of the driver's ability to control it," these are the words to rule out. [[It's after "stop the means of transport exclusively in cases"]] [[cut and periodically change direction or speed mode]] Because they are subjective and will always be corrupt.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u43	Dear colleagues! Is the offer understood? I'm voting on a motion to exclude the clauses that the reporter just made. Please vote. [[10:59:48]] For 269 Decision taken. 41 revisions. Dmitri Saints, are you insisting on her? No, it's not. Cowchenko Mikola, 42 repairs. Are you insisting on her? No, it's not. Cranberry, 43rd? No, it's not. Yes, Carmazin, 47th. Are you insisting on her?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u44	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, we have already adopted another Law on Technology in the first reading and will soon be adopted in the second. As a result, the need to regulate the amendment of part five of the Road Traffic Act 35 has failed, so I do not insist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u45	The committee rejected the same motives.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u46	Dear colleagues, all other amendments are included. And from those who were unaccounted for, the MPs refused to insist on putting them to the vote. So we have every reason to put to the vote a proposal by the Second reading Committee and generally as a bill of the draft Law amending some Ukrainian legislation on the elimination of excessive government regulation in the field of road transport. [[Registration number 8397]] Please vote. [[11:01:32]] For 262 The law is passed. Thank you. Dear colleagues, they were all in favor of cancelling the survey. The technology was proposed to cancel, not to vote. However, the law was passed. Thank you. I am announcing for consideration the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine. [[on the simplification of the conditions of access to the telecommunications market]] [[Registration number 7031]] The rapporteur is the deputy head of the Committee on Transport and Liaison, Yuri Moroko. Yuri Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u47	The distinguished people's deputies, the Committee on Transport and Communications, considered at its meeting the text for the second reading of Bill 7031. The purpose of the bill is to liberalize access to and increase access to the telecommunications market. Only 50 proposals were submitted by the people's deputies, of which 26 are proposed to be taken into account in the final drafting of the law. The Committee recommends that the Supreme Council, following its consideration of Bill 7031, adopt it on second reading and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u48	Let's vote, shall we?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u49	Yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u50	No notice? May I put it to a vote? There's some repairs. The 2nd Amendment of Yuri Carmazin. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u51	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose in the Law "On telecommunications" part of article 10 to make the following statement: "The persons who have been admitted to the register of operators under this law have the right to require landowners or land users to set up waiters, provided that these waiters have been established in an agreement to move ownership of these land to the category of land defined by the Land Code of Ukraine to lay down or remove any damage to telecommunications networks under the land." End of offer. This bill to change the names of the participants in the telecommunications market, not to violate the rights of landowners. Servetus, as a tool for good-neighbourly relations of landowners who need to go to water, etc., wants to use large companies. Even though they have to solve their questions, they have to do so by means of market mechanisms. It is not only by cable but also by radio frequencies. Because of this, please support my offer and put out a piece of the sixth.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u52	Yes, the position of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u53	The Committee did not accept the arguments of Yuri Anatolevich and suggested that the amendment should not be taken into account. Since all the legal bases for the establishment of land services are defined by the Ukrainian Land Code, it is therefore not appropriate to amend the Land Code through the Telecommunications Act. This proposal is contrary to the Ukrainian Code of Land, since it limits the right of telecommunications operators to establish land services to conditions where waiters are to be defined in a contract for the transfer of ownership to land. The Committee suggests that the amendment should not be taken into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u54	I'm betting on the vote of Amendment No. 2 of Yuri Carmazin. [[11:05:06]] For the five of us. No correction supported. Amendment to Shiyanov 3rd. Are you insisting on her? No, it's not. Oh, no? Yuri Carmazin next, 4th Amendment. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u55	Vladimir Mikhailovich is honored, I want to address the national MPs. I put about 15 amendments in this bill, none of them are counted. Surely he will remain on the conscience of those who lobbied the bill. I will not vote for this bill as a lobbyist. And I'm going to ask the President about the veto. Please, my further amendments, Vladimir Mikhailovich, for the economy of your time, do not count. Obviously, it is not possible to convince people who are involved. It's not a professional discussion, it's not a professional bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u56	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I have a request from the committees. First, consider Yuri Carmazin's revisions, because the quality of the laws will increase, and secondly, we'll save time. I am voting on the proposal of a second reading committee and, as a whole, as a bill of the draft Law amending some of the Ukrainian legislation on simplifying the conditions of access to the market for telecommunications services. [[Registration number 7031]] The main legal administration of the comments to the project is not available. Please vote. [[11:06:57]] For 246 The law is passed. I am announcing for consideration the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[on improving regulation in the field of protection of economic competition]] Irina Bellousov, deputy head of the Economic Policy Committee. Please, Irina Anatolyevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u57	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! On 31 May 2011, the Committee of the Supreme Council on Economic Policy considered at its meeting the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Laws of Ukraine prepared for second reading. [[Registration number 7419]] The bill was drafted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and it proposes to amend articles 14 and 16 of the Ukrainian Antimonopoly Committee Act and a series of articles of the Ukrainian Law on Protection of Economic Competition in order to improve legal regulation in the area of protection of economic competition. In general, the adoption of the bill will contribute to the predictability of the application of competitive legislation and will significantly reduce the risks of noncompliance by operators with its requirements. On April 19, the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted the bill as a basis. The Committee on Economic Policy received 5 suggestions from national deputies, who were carefully considered and processed. Three of them are proposed to be rejected and two to be taken into account. The main legal office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine has launched the project without notice. The Committee on Economic Policy recommends to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft law to be adopted on second reading and generally as a law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u58	Let's do some repairs. Yuri Carmazin, 2nd Amendment Yuri Anatolyovich's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u59	Yuri Carmazin. I propose that article 14 be supplemented by a new part of the second sentence: "The Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine, as a higher collegiate body, provides the subject with a finding in the form of a recommendational explanation in cases where the issue concerns the application of economic competition legislation and the Administrative College of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine – previous conclusions on concerted action and concentration." The end of my offer. I believe that this supplement will specify in which cases the Antimonopoly Committee concludes, and in which cases these conclusions are provided by the Administrative College. This distribution is not yet available, and therefore I find it unreasonable to reject the amendment’s committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u60	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u61	The Committee considers that all relations relating to the issue of the Antimonopoly Committee have already been resolved by 29 articles of the Law on Protection of Economic Competition and that the repetition of article 14 of the Committee is not appropriate.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u62	I bet on the vote of Amendment 2. [[11:11:02]] For-9 Correction not supported. Amendment 3, author of Wonders. Are you insisting on her? And Carmazine. Yuri Anatolyevich, do you insist on her? Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u63	Yuri Carmazin. I propose, honourable national deputies, in article 32, in part one, that the word "accounting" be replaced by the word "stopping." And I explain that this change is caused by the fact that Ukraine's Law on Protection of Economic Competition does not provide for procedural succession when dealing with cases of concerted action. That's why I asked you to replace that word with the word "stopping." This is going to be more consistent with what's actually going on, as provided for in article 32 in this case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u64	The Committee is of the view that the very term “sustainment” may be linked to merger, accession, division of an enterprise or become another form. But it is the Antimonopoly Committee that considers concerted action only when it is eliminated, not when it is terminated.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u65	Thank you. Here we have to make a point. Irina Anatolyevna, it's not about stopping activities, it's about stopping activities. I'm voting on Amendment 3. [[11:13:00]] For-13. Correction not supported. Amendment 4, Wonderful, Curly and Carmazin. Are you insisting on her? Please, Yuri Carmazin. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u66	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I am very sorry that we take the words, translate from the Russian, mistranslate, report it to the Supreme Council. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, this is the humiliation of the Ukrainian Parliament, which is now allowed and the failure to implement article 10 of the Constitution of Ukraine, which obliges officials, and the decision of the Constitutional Court, in carrying out its official duties to use exclusively the State language, then perhaps there was no disagreement in terms of "stopping" or "stopping" are all sorts of things. With regard to this amendment, we made it so. That paragraph 3 of the bill states: "To pay in euros or U.S. dollars at the official rate of the National Bank", and we propose to write: "In any freely converted currency." Don't be savages! You're only on the euro, you're buying dollars. It's a nice currency.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u67	Well, Yuri Anatoliyovich, well, the people can't be immediately aware of all the currencies. That's what they know. Please take the seat of the committee. We need to have a free convertible bracelet, and we're gonna be fine. Irina Anatolyevna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u68	The Committee considers that the opening of bank accounts for which fees are paid is not appropriate in all freely converted currencies.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u69	Yes, thank you. I'll bet on the vote of Amendment 4. [[11:15:08]] For -14 The decision is not taken. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the proposal for a second reading committee and, as a whole, the bill of the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[on improving regulation in the field of protection of economic competition]] [[Registration number 7419]] The main legal administration does not have any comments to the project. Please vote. [[11:15:45.]] For 252 The law is passed. Thank you. I would like to announce for consideration the draft Law on the Specificities of Conduct in Administrative Offences and Forced Disposal of Foreigners and Uncitizens during the final part of the 2012 European Football Championship in Ukraine. The rapporteur is the head of the committee's subcommittee on law enforcement activities, Šemčuk Viktor Viktorovich. Please, Victor Viktorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u70	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! A committee on law enforcement was prepared for the second reading of the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers' draft of the Ukrainian Law on the Specialities of Administrative Offences in the Final Part of the Euro-2012 Football Championship in Ukraine. The bill was adopted at the first reading on May 19. The purpose of the bill is to implement Ukraine's UEFA conditions necessary for the safe conduct of the final part of the 14th European Football Championship. The bill proposes to set up a shorter procedure for administrative offences that are most likely to occur in the course of mass sporting or other cultural activities. The proposal is to achieve this by setting a shorter period of time – during the period of consideration by an authorized body, court or authorized person of the internal affairs body of the specified category of cases and by short notice of complaints of decisions involving administrative responsibility. It is intended to introduce mandatory delivery of the offender to the authorized authority and to shorten the period of detention to one age. There is also the possibility of the court applying to a person who is banned from attending mass sports or other cultural sightings at the time of the Championship. In addition, it is envisaged that a simplified procedure should be put in place to deal with cases of forced discharge outside Ukraine of foreigners and stateless persons who have committed appropriate offences. The committee worked closely with the Ministry of Justice in preparing the bill for second reading. We had significant comments before this bill, but we were able to take a compromise position on the committee. In general, there were 16 amendments, 15 of which were taken into account in whole or in part, only one was rejected, it applied to the exclusion of the prohibition of court attendance, but this is a European practice and this rule should be left in the document. The committee recommends the adoption of a bill in the second reading and generally as a law. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u71	Yes, Your Honor, Amendment 11 of Yuri Carmazin is not included. Yuri Anatolyevich, are you insisting on her?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u72	Yuri Carmazin. Dear people's deputies, the amendment, first of all, thanks to the committee for their fruitful cooperation, they took a lot of amendments into account. And as for the 11th amendment, it's absolutely interesting. It's about that there's a ban on going to mass sports or other cultural sightings, and I'm proposing that article 4 be removed. This article introduces a new type of merger in the form of a ban on visitors who have committed administrative offences against mass sports or other cultural activities in the area of sports facilities during the Euro-2012 final part of the football championship in Ukraine. But such a merger is not foreseen by the current legislation of Ukraine, such as the Code of Administrative Offences. I don't get it at all, but how will thugs, thugs, rapists, everyone else attend these meetings? That is, they can take these spectacular measures, and the one who has drawn one counsel to them.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u73	Yeah, it's on. Victor Viktorovich, please, for this matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u74	This question was the result of much discussion at the committee meeting. The question was, indeed, about the compatibility of this provision with the Ukrainian Constitution, which is in force in Ukrainian legislation. However, taking into account European practices, especially at mass events and predicting such a possibility to disembowel outside Ukraine and ban the visits of hoodlums who may be present at these mass events during Euro-2012, the committee agreed with the proposal to leave the prescribed paragraph in the law, to reject the amendment of the People's Deputy of Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u75	Dear colleagues, I place my vote on Amendment 11 of Yuri Karmazin. [[11:20:47]] For-21 No correction supported. Dear colleagues, the proposal for a second-reading committee is put to the vote as a bill of the draft law on the specialities of conduct in administrative offences and forced expulsion of foreigners and stateless persons during the final part of the 2012 European Championship from football in Ukraine. [[Registration number 8426]] Please vote. For the record, the Chief Legal Authority has some observations about this project. [[11:21:31]] For 242 The law is passed. I am announcing for consideration the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine. [[on improving housing and utility accounting and improving the quality of their provision]] [[Registration number 7099]] The rapporteur is the deputy head of the Committee on Construction, Urban and Housing and Regional Policy of Igor Volodymyrovich Lisov. Please. Yes, the reporter. Act 7099.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u76	Dear colleagues, the committee at its meeting on June 1, this year, reviewed the bill adopted by the Supreme Council on May 11.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u77	Let's do the repairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u78	29 amendments were made. The committee proposes to take 23 amendments into account. Amendments were made by seven deputies and by the Ministry.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u79	Amendment 4 Yuri Carmazin. Yuri Anatolyevich, are you insisting on her? Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u80	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a strange situation: our previous payment can be drawn from man. And I suggest that we write, and we add, after the words "actually released energy," add the words "or with the frustration or the delay of such payment." The committee is of the opinion that the previous payment is morally valid, and if the schedule is to be made or delayed, it is not normal. Do you understand? Do we not make laws for people? But people are groaning, closing down businesses now, look what you've done under the Tax Code! You've raised the price for the land, by all accounts. And now they can't pay in advance. So I'm telling you, write your life proposal down: either with the interruption or the postponement of that payment. It's still a contract, but it's not going to go through these monopolies! No, we're still protecting their interests. We recorded the last one.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u81	The committee proposes to reject the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u82	I'm betting on the vote number four, Yuri Carmazin. [[11:24:46]] For-49 Correction not accepted. Amendment 10.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u83	Amendment 10 of the Cabinet of Ministers.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u84	Does the Minister's office insist on this amendment?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u85	Don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u86	They're asleep, I see. Amendment 15 Yuri Karmazin
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u87	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! It's very sad that we don't see what's happening on the ground right now when we shut down businesses. I have a suggestion: paragraph 2 of the second sentence in the following wording: "The inter-communal period should begin and end simultaneously for all categories of consumers, except for specific categories of consumers: hospitals, kindergartens, schools, etc. for which it begins and ends with the decision of the executive body of the relevant local councils or local public administrations, coming out of the climate conditions and needs of the listed consumers." I believe that this supplement will provide for a quick solution to questions about the start or conclusion of the heating period for individual categories of consumers such as hospitals, kindergartens, schools, and so forth. And it will save the health of our citizens, which is the highest value in the Constitution in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u88	The committee thinks it's a waste of clarity. So we ask you to reject the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u89	Amendment 15 of Yuri Karmazin is put to the vote. [[11:26:35]] For-24 Correction not supported. 21 amendment, author – Levcun. Are you insisting on her? No, it's not. Yes, 24 Yuri Carmazin. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u90	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that part four be completed with paragraph three of the following content. "The damage suffered by consumers in connection with the improper provision of public services, on grounds not provided for in part three of this article, shall be compensated by the supplier in full compliance with the law.".. This proposal is made with a view to protecting the rights of consumers who may be harmed by improper provision of utilities to providers. And now we see that virtually every city, every village, there's damage and no compensation. That's why I'm asking you to write it down. And I don't understand why the committee doesn't want to meet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u91	The point of view of the committee. We ask you to reject this amendment because the proposal is not specifically made. I mean, it's not clear what kind of damage can be done and what body of executive authority should determine or take into account. Please correct 24 of Karmazin's people's deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u92	The vote is amended by 24, author Yuri Karmazin. [[11:28:19]] For -6 No correction supported. And the last, the 29th amendment, the author is Korz. Are you insisting on her? No, it's not. Yes, Your Honor, I announce the committee's decision to take on a second reading and generally as a law. The principal legal administration has no comments. Yes, please prepare for the vote. It is up to the vote to propose the adoption of a second reading and, in general, as a bill of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts to improve the order of accounts for residential services and improve the quality of their provision. [[Registration number 7099]] Please vote. [[11:29:14]] For 263 The law is passed. I am announcing for consideration the draft Act amending the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine. [[on changing the status of confession as evidence of guilt in criminal matters]] The rapporteur is the head of the committee's subcommittee on law enforcement activities, Vladimir Moysik.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u93	Vladimir Moses, Party for Ukraine! Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! This is the bill of colleague Oleg Zarubinsky, who wants to improve, and in fact does so, the procedural status of testimony of the suspect, the accused and the defendant. And the author of the bill warned us with you that only these statements would in no way be the basis for a person's accusation. That's the whole point of his proposal. The committee considered five amendments, of which four were taken into account. But there's a note by the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. Rather than commenting on this bill, they are actually a new legislative initiative. Actually, in order to complete the article, the Criminal Procedure Code of article 65 prime. and determine evidence that is inadmissible for use in criminal proceedings. But the committee doesn't think it's a reference to this law. These remedies would violate the requirements of Article 116 of the Rules. So the committee is asking you to adopt the bill as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u94	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to put the committee's proposal to the vote. Please cancel the vote. Yuri Carmazin, are your amendments there? Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u95	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, I would like to make a statement on Amendment No. 2, which is partly counted. But I'd like to look at you and find a way to take it completely into account. I want to make a point. I suggest in article 73 that the second paragraph be made available in the next line. "The testimony of the suspect, including those in which he pleads guilty, is subject to scrutiny. Confession as a suspect of his guilt is only to be added to the charge if this confession is confirmed by a body of evidence that is in the case. A suspect at any time may call a plea of guilt by making an appropriate statement to the investigator, the prosecutor, the judge or the court. The filing of an application for withdrawal of the plea is the basis for the re-examination of the suspect." Ladies and gentlemen, this situation, which is once again necessary for the investigator, the prosecutor or the court to question this issue, in my opinion it guarantees, especially in the circumstances in which the courts are currently taking place, and when we receive the full.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u96	Please, Vladimir Romanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u97	Dear Yuri Anatoliyovich, you know that article 63 of the Constitution allows the accused, the suspect at all, to give no evidence. If he gave evidence, the drafter writes that they are subject to verification. With regard to proof of guilt, there are other rules that govern what is the basis of judgment. The committee stopped at that, and the phrase just covered all the cases.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u98	I'm voting on Amendment No.2, which is partially counted, for full consideration. Please be sure. [[11:33:03]] For the 17th. Correction not supported. So, fellow Members, we have every reason to go to the vote now, but the final word is the reporter.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u99	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, your Honorary colleagues, the 4th Amendment of Yuri Karmazin is similar to the second amendment, but I would like to point out to you that the author of the bill and the author of the bill agreed with our interpretation and presentation of the final drafting of the law. So I'm asking you to support me as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u100	Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? I put to the vote a proposal for a committee to adopt in the second reading and as a whole as a bill of the draft Act amending the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine. [[on changing the status of confession as evidence of guilt in criminal matters]] [[Registration number 6059]] Please vote. [[11:34:10]] For-38 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. The question is, Why did we receive it in the first reading? Well, we can't go back. See the support? What can be done? To the others again? Please. I'm betting on voting for a second reading proposal. Registration number 6059. [[11:34:51]] For 243 Decision taken. Thank you. I am announcing a draft Act amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine to improve the criminal liability mechanism for fraud with financial resources, Reporter Vladimir Moysik. [[Registration number 5427]] Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u101	Vladimir Moisik, Party for Ukraine! Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! I'd like two words before the previous bill. Well, don't give a stupid job to either the committee or yourself. If the idea of the bill is not understood, it's the first reading and we don't vote, and that's it. Or a bill from a member of the coalition, not a opposing legal act, is absolutely normal, which would improve the state of justice.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u102	There was just some wise man who took it, put it down.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u103	That's wrong.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u104	No, I mean, I put a minus, and now everybody's going after the minus. Well, the law was normal!
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u105	Absolutely. Dear colleagues! Perhaps the same law awaits fate. But the bill aims to improve criminal responsibility for fraud with financial resources. I will say that in the current norm of the Criminal Code, the article “Fundamental Fraud Responsibility” provides for the provision of knowingly false information for the purpose of receiving subsidies, subsidies, grants or credit benefits. I mean, you realize that the very fact that information is false is a crime. While many republics in the former Soviet Union and in the West recognize the fact that they are actually receiving benefits or benefits, or credit, subsidies, or subsidies. So with the aim of bringing criminal law to the fore, we have passed this bill. And the next. We are greatly mitigating criminal responsibility for this crime. There were five amendments to the bill, four of them included. The chief legal office had no comments to the bill, no comments to be made. Therefore, the Committee on Legislative Security requests the adoption of a bill as a whole as a law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u106	Yeah, on the 1st amendment, it's rejected, the Amazing insists? No, it's not. If not, then all the other adjustments are included.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u107	Numbered, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u108	I am voting on the proposal to adopt the second reading as a whole as a bill of the draft Act amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine. [[on improving the criminal liability mechanism for fraud with financial resources]] [[Registration number 5427]] The main legal administration does not have any comments to the project. Please vote. [[11:37:55]] For-100 The decision is not taken. Traditionally, I'm going to make a proposal to re-read the bill. Please vote. () [[B in m in s a l in]] [[11:38:20]] For-65 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. Explain what? And so it's obvious. Explain what? () [[B in m in s a l in]] Please! I am announcing for consideration the draft Act amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine. [[on crimes against life, health, will, honor and dignity]] [[Registration number 7110]] I'll explain. At first, one man puts in a positive position, and when preparing for the second reading, the other man put in a negative. Here you go, all the explanations. The rapporteur is the head of the committee's subcommittee on law enforcement, Victor Shemchuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u109	Honourable Volodymira Mihajlovich, Honorary Fellows, Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Law Enforcement, has been prepared for review in a second reading of the draft law amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine. [[on crimes against life, health, will, honor and dignity]] During the drafting of the bill, nine proposals came to him in the second reading of the draft law, seven of which were completely, two rejected. The final draft of the bill amended articles 150 "Operation of children" and 150 with one "Using a Child to Enslave" in the Ukrainian Criminal Code. The changes that have been made are proposed to remove from these articles their special purpose in committing crime, profiting, which is a necessary sign of these crimes today, and to supplement article 150 with a third part, by which to establish responsibility for the actions envisaged by parts one and two of this article if they are committed by an organized criminal group. These changes will contribute to improving the effectiveness of crime control, such as child exploitation, and the use of young children for begging. With regard to the comments of the General Legal Directorate, the committee strongly disagrees with the comments made on the following grounds. When preparing the bill for consideration in the second reading, the committee considered exclusively all the comments made by the Chief Scientific and Expert Administration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The same suggestions made in preparing for the second reading were made by the committee in such a way that their consideration would lead to violations of article 116 of the Rules. Thus, the committee recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt a second reading and generally as a law. I'd like to support you. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u110	Corrections now, dear colleagues, let's see. Amendment 4, Yuri Carmazin. It's not counted. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u111	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I have made five amendments to this law, most of them counted. In view of the similar amendment that the deputy Shemczuk had made in other words, it is considered, well, obviously, that my amendment should not be put to the vote in this case. I agree. This is about the 4th amendment. And as for the 5th amendment, Your Honor Vladimir Mikhailovich, I'm going to save your time right now, and I want to say that I suggest in the title of article 150 that we replace the words "children" with the word "children." I was denied, considering that this seems to be inconsistent with article 116 of the Rules, but that's exactly consistent with common sense, so the word "child" had to be written. That's why I'm asking you to review, Victor Viktorovich, this position of yours, if possible, and maybe we can vote "kids," that'll be more correct. And the 4th, I don't insist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u112	I'm voting for Amendment 5 of Yuri Carmazin. Well, please take down the vote. Committee opinion, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u113	Dear colleagues, this is, indeed, such a thought in Yuri Carmazin certainly has the right to life, but the law provides for the word "child", not "children," so the committee insisted that this should remain. However, this may be corrected by the will of the hall, if there are enough votes, we might consider it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u114	I put to the vote the amendment of Yuri Karmazin, number 5, to replace the word "children" in the title of article 150. Please vote. [[11:43:08]] For-22. The decision is not taken. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the proposal of the Second reading Committee and, as a whole, as a bill of the draft Act amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine. [[on crimes against life, health, will, honor and dignity]] [[Registration number 7110]] The principal legal administration has observations that the committee disagrees with. Please vote. [[11:43:47]] For 249 The law is passed. A draft Act amending article 43 and article 48 of the Ukrainian Mining Law is being announced for consideration. [[on the social rights of families of deceased pensioners who receive pensions due to the loss of a breadwinner]] [[Registration number 7439]] The rapporteur is Victor Ivanovich Turmanov, member of the Committee on Fuel Energy, Nuclear Safety and Nuclear Policy.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u115	Dear Vladimir Mihajlović, distinguished colleagues, you will have before you the draft Act amending articles 43, 48 of the Mining Act. [[on the protection of the rights of deceased retirees who receive a pension in connection with the loss of a breadwinner]] [[Registration number 7439]] All amendments made by fellow deputies are taken into account. The committee therefore considered the bill on second reading and decided to support the bill, both on second reading and in general, both by law. I would like to ask my fellow Members to vote in favour of this bill, which has been tabled for consideration today. I want to say two words and emphasize that all of these widows are still 9,000, 180. The financial cost would be 9.4 million grivens. By co-author of the bill, we agreed on the bill with the Ministry of Finance, and the law enters into force on 1 January 2012. Dear colleagues, please support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u116	Dear colleagues, the committee proposes to adopt the second reading and, as a whole, as a law, the Chief Legal Authority has some comments to this bill. At the same time, in accordance with the Rules, I am voting on the proposal: the adoption of the second reading and, in general, the bill of the draft Act amending article 43 and article 48 of the "Uber Law of Ukraine". [[on the social rights of families of deceased pensioners who receive pensions due to the loss of a breadwinner]] Change the vote. What? Change the vote. What, Yuri Anatolyovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u117	Vladimir Mikhailovich's amendment number 3 is mine, it did not allow for the narrowing of the law. Think about it. We don't have enough of those people, they said, "Nine thousand." I suggested that we put out a piece of this article of the 43rd Mining Law, and put it this way: "Unworkable members of the families of the deceased pensioners who had the right to it in life." So this rule will give the disabled members of families of deceased pensioners who, in their lives, had the right to secure coals free of charge to obtain coal in order and under the conditions provided for in article 43 of the Mining Code. It is now possible for families of the dead who have the right in life to receive a pension in connection with the loss of a breadwinner to receive free coal. If they do not receive a pension in connection with the loss of a breadwinner, they do not fall under this formula. That's why I'd like us to be, well, for the benefit of the people.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u118	So I'm reading, dear colleagues, you're proposing to the disabled members of the families of the deceased pensioners who had the right to do so in their lifetime. As suggested by the committee, family members, widows of workers who died died in coal mining businesses who had a pension in connection with the loss of a breadwinner, as well as dead pensioners who had such a right in life. [[processing]] So it is. But at the same time, dear colleagues, I'm making an amendment to Yuri Carmazin's editorial number three. Don't worry, Carmazin took it off. Therefore, honourable colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to adopt the second reading and generally as a bill of the draft Law amending article 43 and article 48 of the Mining Law of Ukraine. [[on the protection of the social rights of families of deceased pensioners who receive a pension in connection with the loss of a breadwinner]] [[Registration number 7439]] Please vote. [[11:48:37]] For 297 Decision taken. The law is passed. Dear colleagues, we must now consider a bill amending some of the Ukrainian legislation on improving legislation on economic societies. At the same time, the committee is proposing to withdraw a project submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers as one that has become obsolete. The Minister's office won't deny it? The bill, registration number 3285, we're taking it off the table. Doesn't the Kabin deny it? Oh, no? I am voting on the proposal to adopt a draft decree by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the withdrawal from the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine on Improving Legislation on Economic Associations. [[Registration number 3285/P2]] Please vote. [[11:49:58]] For 266 Decision taken. I'm announcing to the draft Law on the Concept of State Information Policy. [[second reading]] The reporter is Andrew Shevchenko. There's also an offer to reject, isn't there? Please tell me.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u119	Colleagues, the committee has considered this bill and proposes that the Supreme Council reject it. What arguments were there for this position that the majority of the committee gained? First, it was said that this was a document of a general declarant nature. Secondly, there were observations that such a document as a concept was not provided by the Constitution for the adoption of such a document. At the same time, the Committee considered all the amendments that had been made. If the Supreme Council decides to amend it, we're ready. I will also say that there is a precise position of the State Committee on Television and Radio Communication, which initiated this concept in its own time. The State Department also supports the proposal to reject the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u120	Would you please take the position of the Cabinet of Ministers on this matter? Do you agree? The committee agrees with the proposal to withdraw the draft law because we cannot be rejected. Let's put it on then. Let us then, my fellow Members, vote on the draft Order of the Committee on the Aberration of the Draft Law on the Concept of State Information Policy (Registration No. 7251/P1). Please vote. [[11:51:41]] For 301 The bill is being removed from consideration. Dear colleagues! I am announcing for consideration the draft Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Land Code. [[about bringing in with the Ukrainian Nadra Code]] Head of the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations, Grigory Mikolayovich Kaletnik, please. Dear colleagues! Here's a proposal for us to postpone and consider the matter at the evening meeting. In view of the voices that were not considered on the committee, I remind myself that last Sunday, I was dedicated to committee work. During this period, only two committees were held: the Committee on Legislative Security and Law Protection and the Committee on Fuel Energy, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security. I'm paying attention to the heads of the committees to this situation, because the appeals are that everyone here should vote, work. This is how you work on the committees for a start. I've got information that I can tell you how many committees there are that don't consider -- 709 issues, they're doing politics instead of doing work on committees. The draft Law on Amendments to Article 17-1 of the Ukrainian Electricity Act on Improving the Energy Tariff System, which is made of biogas, is being announced for consideration. The rapporteur is the head of the Committee on Fuel Energy in the Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security of Mikola Martinenko. Please, Mikola Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u121	Dear National Deputies! The committee has worked out proposals and amendments that have come from subjects of the right of legislative initiative to a bill amending article 17 of the Ukrainian Law on Electricity, adopted in the first reading of 17.05. [[on improving the tariff system for electricity produced from biogas]] [[Registration number 8028]] 2011. A total of 8 suggestions and amendments, 5 of which are included, have been rejected 3. The amendments I have made relate to the legal and editorial improvement of the text of the law. The Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council called for a comparative table for second reading without notice, noting that the bill could be adopted in second reading and generally as a law. We can go to the repairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u122	Yes, the amendments are out of the question. 4th author, Korz. Are you insisting on her? No, it's not. 6th. No, it's not. 7th, Yuri Carmazin. Are you insisting on her? No, it's not. Thus, honourable colleagues, the committee proposes to accept in the second reading and generally as a law. There is no chief legal authority to comment on the bill. So I'm voting on a proposal for a second-reading committee and, as a whole, a bill, a bill amending article 17-1 of the Ukrainian Electricity Act. [[on improving the tariff system for electricity produced from biogas]] Registration number 8028. Please vote. [[11:55:28]] For 133 The decision is not taken. Well, it's for re-reading to just create a job in the collective. Well, all the adjustments are taken into account, so what's the second one again? I'm voting on a motion to re-read the bill. Please be sure. [[11:55:59]] For 301 Decision taken. I am announcing a draft Act amending article 9 of the Ukrainian Citizenship Act. [[on national security]] The proposal to consider the issue in a simplified procedure. Please vote. Yeah, and we'll listen to the reports, and then we'll continue after the break. [[11:56:26]] For 204 Decision taken. Representative of the President of Ukraine to the Supreme Council of Ukraine Yuri Miroshnichenko and National Deputy of Ukraine Dmitry Vetwicki.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u123	Dear voters, dear colleagues! Yuri Miroshnichenko, representative of the President of Ukraine at the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I am introducing a bill by the President proposing to amend article 9 of the Ukrainian Citizenship Act and foresees the following changes. The fact is that the current law stipulates that the admission of individuals who were previously sentenced in Ukraine to be deprived of liberty for committing serious and particularly serious crimes is allowed into citizenship after the execution or removal of justice. In most cases, they do not have a place of employment, that is, a legitimate source of existence, repeated wrongdoings, and so forth. It is proposed to amend and supplement the rule on refusal to accept Ukrainian citizenship to a person who is sentenced in Ukraine to be deprived of the will to commit a serious or particularly serious crime with regard to dealing with this issue, taking into account the level of threat to Ukraine's national security. As for such dangers, it is to prevent and neutralize real and potential threats to national interests in the field of migration policy. That is, to study the situation surrounding the granting of citizenship to individuals who have already been sentenced in Ukraine as to how much such citizenship would or would not harm Ukraine’s national interests. This is a vital norm, and the president proposes that it be approved by supplementing the corresponding article.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u124	Thank you. Dmitry Vetwicki, please. Yeah, there's no author, is there? Is there a Dmitry Vetwicki? Well, then let's hear it from the committee, or maybe our colleague will come along. If not, we will discuss it after a break. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u125	Mr. Volodymira Mihajlovich, honourable colleagues, the committee at its meeting on 15 June this year discussed alternative draft laws that were said to amend article 9 of the Ukrainian National Security Act, which was introduced by the President of Ukraine, and to amend article 9 of the Ukrainian Citizenship Act on grounds of non-admission to Ukrainian citizenship, which was introduced by our colleague, National Deputy Vetwicki. The drafting of both bills is based on the need to amend certain provisions of the Ukrainian Nationality Act in order to ensure the national security of the State, in particular with regard to the admission to Ukrainian citizenship of persons who were previously sentenced in Ukraine to be deprived of the will to commit serious and particularly serious crimes. The aim of both bills is to improve the legal regulation of grounds for non-admission to Ukrainian citizenship, taking into account national security considerations. At the same time, there is a difference between laws. It is the ultimate goals that follow the proposed changes. The Vetwicki bill proposes to radically change the conditions under which Ukrainian citizenship is not available, making it worse and expanding the list considerably. World practice and careful analysis of these conditions show that, despite a number of technical disagreements, they, in principle, have the right to exist and can be legally established, but some of them need technical work, and in general they will bring about changes to other articles of the Ukrainian Citizens Act, which, by the way, is not included in the Final Positions. The bill introduced by the President of Ukraine aims to redefine one of the requirements for which citizenship is not available: requirements for persons convicted in Ukraine to be deprived of the will to commit a serious or particularly serious crime, specifying it “with regard to the level of threat to the national security of the State”.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u126	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u127	I'm done. At the same time, I would like to point out that there was a serious discussion at the committee meeting. Because both drafts and drafts carry novels, positives. And the final decision was not taken. National deputies, members of the committee voted comparatively. That's what happens. But it's a democratic choice of committee members. Therefore, I ask the Supreme Council to determine in favour of one or another bill on the adoption of it as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u128	Dear colleagues! Reports completed. What is it? This is a road map for the introduction of a visa-free mode. And that bill introduced by the President of Ukraine comes out of the logic of agreements with the European Union. As a result, we would be wise to listen to and make the right decision. Because we know what a visa regime is for our citizens. At least so that the Ukrainian side can fulfill part of its obligations. And then we'll watch. So if you don't mind, we'd be putting it to a vote right now and taking a break after that. Is there no objection? Then come on, sign up for the discussion. After a break, we'll have a discussion. Yes, please put your name on the board. Taras Cranowil and Lilia Grigorovich Yeah, well, why don't we do the show now and vote? Shall we go? Taras Chernobyl, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u129	Please pass the word to Hennady Zadirk.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u130	Gennady Bully, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u131	Dear colleagues! The proposed amendments to article 9, part five, paragraph 2, of the Ukrainian Civility Act, are proposed to establish that a person who is sentenced in Ukraine to be deprived of the will to commit a serious or particularly serious crime prior to the execution or elimination of the judiciary, taking into account the level of threat to the national security of the State, cannot be admitted to Ukrainian citizenship. In this regard, we feel that the following aspects of the problem need to be taken into account. First, the draft revision of article 9, part five, paragraph 2, of the law is not clear and its content is rather problematic. It seems that the warning of the level of threat to national security applies to those convicted in Ukraine for committing a serious or particularly serious crime committed by persons whose trial has not been extinguished or dismissed. This adjective in the draft rather indicates that the persons listed may be admitted to Ukrainian citizenship if the level of national security risks from such a step is irrelevant. However, this defect can lead to ambiguous interpretation of the law and thus lead to problems in practical implementation of the provision. Secondly, the solution to the problem in the draft cannot be limited solely by making consistent changes to article 9 of the law, since not only those who have been sentenced in Ukraine to be deprived of the will to commit a serious or particularly serious crime can pose a potential threat to national security. For example, part two and part two of article 109 of the First and Second Articles of article 110 of the Criminal Code, crimes against the fundamentals of national security in Ukraine are about calls for a violent change or an overthrow of the constitutional system, the capture of state authority, the distribution of materials calling for such actions, and so on, are not difficult, especially difficult, but the appropriateness of accepting those who have committed them raises legitimate doubts about Ukrainian citizenship. It is also obvious that it is necessary to refuse to accept Ukrainian citizenship, for example, a person who, while living in a foreign country, publicly advocated for a violent change or collapse of the constitutional system.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u132	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u133	The MP's "Reforms for the Future" will support Law 8468 and vote in full. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u134	Thank you. Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u135	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen, the great-great President with a great-great machine has managed to give as many as eight words under this law that you so praise here. These are the words: "taking into account the level of threat to the national security of the state." Our scientific and expert office, in his honor, said that this law was meant to restore the subject's right to work. They were the ones who said so softly, softly. Now our colleague Vetwicki. Colleague Vetwicki proposed a bill that, according to the Chief Scientific and Experimental Government, "has a more complex approach to solving the issue," which I quote, is the basis for adoption, and is generally more effective than the last one. At the same time, the project also has a number of shortcomings. So, honourable national deputies, this is Yuri Carmazin's opinion. Obviously, we need to adopt a law, not in the President's office, but in the writing of our colleague of the Vetwicki people's parliament, to whom I want to thank, because it introduces changes that are complex in article 9 of the law, which is called "Admission to Ukrainian citizenship", and instead of the three points that have been added to it, there are six other points that are completely accepted in Europe and which are absolutely adequate. For this reason, I would suggest that most people say thank you to the President that, at least as urgent as this law is defined, this is the first. And secondly, to adopt a more fundamental law, developed by a colleague of Vetwicki, where these procedures are written in full compliance with European standards, to which there are observations, and which we will submit to the second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u136	Ivan Popescu, one minute. Then there's Oleg Zarubinsky, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u137	Masterful colleagues! The faction of the Party of the Regions. Of these two bills, the Party of the Regions will support Bill No. 8468. Now, essentially. It should be noted that the legislation of the absolute majority of foreign nations conceptually distinguishes the refusal to accept a person for citizenship on the grounds that he has been brought to criminal responsibility in the past and on the grounds that there are reasonable doubts about the loyalty of the person concerned or the reasons for his disloyalty. Depending on the characteristics of the legal system of a particular State, the last reason may be related or not to the fact that a person is convicted of committing a crime against the State concerned, but unlike the proposed national deputy of the Vetvic novice project, it is usually not linked to the gravity of such a crime. As a result, the President's draft can be taken into account and taken into account when preparing for the second reading. So the faction of the Party of Regions will vote in favour of the bill proposed by the President. Thank you for your attention, and please note that this is one of Ukraine’s commitments to the Council of Europe and the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u138	Yes, Oleg Zarubinsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u139	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I'm not from the committee. I'm from the faction. Unfortunately, it is rare when I cannot agree with Yuri Carmazin. Why, in spite of the observation, in fact, of the Chief Scientific and Expert Directorate regarding the absence of a bill introduced by the President of Ukraine, the criteria for assessing the level of threat to national security, Yuri Anatoliyevich, you will listen to what I say, and you will not have a replica, such criteria exist. In particular, article 7 of the Ukrainian National Security Foundation Act is called "Threats to Ukraine's National Interests and National Security". It defines about 70, and you know this well, threats in various spheres of social life, thus, and the criminal activity associated with these threats is a threat to national security. Thus, in fact, criminal activity is linked in the Presidential Bill to the threat of national security in the very specific positions already laid down in the existing National Security Framework Act. So it's not amorphous, it's something you can support. Don't take the line because it's the right thing to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u140	Dear National Deputies! The reply is given when the offense is made in the speech. Please, please. Well, Yuri Anatolyovich. Dear colleagues! Please, Yuri Anatolyovich. Ladies and gentlemen, once again, I would like you to read carefully the law and the draft law in which the proposals are made, this is the first. Secondly, let's get out of what we've signed a corresponding agreement on the implementation of the plan of action for the introduction of the visa-free regime and these positions are clearly fixed there. So we come out of the fact that we have to make these decisions, let's make them. That's why I'm voting on the proposal to approve the Ukrainian Act amending article 9 of the Ukrainian Nationality Act. [[Registration number 8468]] Please vote. Presidential. [[12:11:47]] For 252 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, a break of up to 12 hours is announced for 42 minutes, that is, half an hour. We will continue to consider the issues that are set out in the schedule. Yuri Anatolyevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u141	Please enter the session room and invite the national deputies to continue our Titanic work. Dear colleagues, we must now consider the draft of the Anti-Trafficking Act. I'm voting on your motion to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[12:42:11]] For 180. Decision taken. Rapporteur – Ukrainian national deputy Oleg Zarubinski and co-rapporteur – head of the Committee on Combating Organized Crime and Corruption, Bealez Valerij Ananiyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u142	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! Human trafficking is now recognized as a serious crime at the international level. Ukraine is a country of origin, transit and destination for men, women, and children who are exported abroad for the purpose of either sexual exploitation or forced labour. Women are forced to work in the sex industry as housewives, in the service sector, in textiles or other light industry enterprises. Most of the men affected by human trafficking were exploited in various countries, mainly as builders, factory workers, farm workers, or seamen. It is enough to say that since 1991 hundreds of thousands of Ukrainians have suffered from human trafficking. Despite the existence of a series of legal instruments that provide for practical measures to combat trafficking in human beings, there is no comprehensive legislative instrument that identifies all aspects of combating this dangerous phenomenon. Therefore, our bill is not the nature of changes to changes, changes to other laws. This is a comprehensive, comprehensive system document that provides for regulation of the fight and the fight against human trafficking in various aspects. In particular, the law defines the basic orientations of public policy aimed at countering trafficking in human beings, defines the powers of executive authorities in countering trafficking in human beings, defines the mechanism for preventing, combating and, in our view, providing assistance and protecting victims, as well as the principles of international cooperation in the area of combating trafficking in human beings and increasing accountability for trafficking in human beings. Once again, this is a systematic, complex and large document, this is really a bill, not a change. Please vote for him in the first reading, I know what it is.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u143	Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u144	I know there are proposals, there are serious, reasonable suggestions from the profile committee, from the stakeholders. I think by the second reading they can all be implemented. This bill does not need politicians, it needs people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u145	Thank you, too, Oleg Alexanderovich. Valeriy Ananiyovich, please make the decision of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u146	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! The Professional Committee, the Committee on Combating Organized Crime and Corruption, recommends that the Supreme Council reject the bill and, for what reasons, reject it. First. This bill envisions the creation of a new central executive body that contradicts the President's strategy for administrative reform in our country. That's the first one. The other one. The project provides for additional expenditure from both state and local budgets. And the third, probably the main thing, is that all the social relations that are proposed to regulate the bill in the current legislation of Ukraine are regulated. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u147	Thank you, too. Dear colleagues! Please sign up to exchange your thoughts on this subject. Gregory Smythech, then Chaplienne will perform. Gregory Smythuch, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u148	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Gregory Smythuch, Party of Regions. You know, I wanted to start with one phrase, and I'll start with what Beavez said. I'm surprised by my colleague Beviz, because he knows by his own identity what illegal trafficking in human beings is, which is a threat in our country, what statistics are. And they're crazy. If we're talking, first of all, what does the central organs not need? Maybe you don't need it. Then let us translate these powers into, for example, the Ukrainian Security Service and commit to the Ukrainian Security Service, which, among others, has a priority in combating this phenomenon that threatens national security or the identity of the Ukrainian population. That's the first question. Expenses. Wait, what we have under the Constitution as a whole. Do we have the question of just collecting expenses or spending on the priorities of the state or on the priorities of issues that are urgent in today’s society? In my opinion, this phenomenon is dangerous and requires, including additional expenses. And the third question. Social relations are settled, a.g. settled, and what does it have to do with a national character? Only according to statistics that our countries in the European Union, think about it, about 100,000 young women are in sexual slavery. This is just one part of our people. We are no longer talking about labor slavery and other matters. I think that's one of the problems that the state should be dealing with. There are flaws, there are those and other questions. So there's a second reading and there's a profiling committee, let's fix it, let's agree and do it. And if you don't agree completely, it's to hide your head in the sand and say, and we don't have that problem. How's that? What are you saying? But this is a challenging question that needs to be resolved immediately. And I thank our colleague Zarubinski for raising this question and raising it regularly, and I stand in the same position that there is nothing more important to us as human health as a man of our state. Let's support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u149	Yes, Vladimir Kaplienko, MP's group "Reforms for the Future."
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u150	Dear colleagues, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich, would like to begin by saying this is a human bill. The Reforms for the Future Group at its meeting reviewed this bill and will support it in view of the following. A week ago, the U.S. Department of State published a report on trafficking in human beings in the world in 2011, referring Ukraine to a number of countries whose governments are making great efforts to end trafficking in human beings. But this effort is not enough. Ukraine is a country of transit and destination for men, women and children who are exported abroad for sexual exploitation and forced labour. Ukrainian victims are subjected to trade and torture not only in Turkey, Italy, Russia, or Poland, but are countries such as the United States, Canada, Belarus, and so forth. Women who have been forced into prostitution or into domestic slavery are also forced to work in the field of services, textiles, and light industries. Most Ukrainian men who were victims of human trafficking were subjected to forced labour in Russia and elsewhere. First of all, it refers to the construction, agriculture, and mariners. Children are often forced to engage in prostitution or to ask for alms. Can't you see it's a terrible statistic? And as far as I can tell, Ukrainians deserve a better fate. But there are things in this bill that need further work. These include definitions, the procedure for defining special status. Why is it only a year, and why is this status determined by the local government? Where are the authority given to these organs? Why is help determined? In what way an account can create support for a person through housing or employment. But all of this can be corrected for a second reading. The MP's Reforms for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u151	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u152	has also passed a bill that may complement this law, perhaps even bringing them together. We're going to vote in the first reading, and we're going to bring the papers to the second. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u153	Thank you. Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u154	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! First of all, to you, Volodymyr Mihajlovich. You didn't give me the right to repeat when there was a Civil Code. You discussed it. Absolutely wrong. My position was formulated. So I want to remind you that I am in favour of enacting normal laws, where threats to Ukraine's national security are declining. But I believe that when there is a constitutional guarantor in the state, there is the Attorney General of Ukraine and there is a judge who executes justice in the state as a citizen of another state, it is Judge Borodin, in Kharkiv, who has recently been the head of the Court of Appeal, and everyone is silent about it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u155	Please, I'm asking you to speak on the subject.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u156	Vladimir Mikhailovich, I'm on the subject. What a theme that is yet to be heard! Sometimes you see the President, tell him to knock once on the table, or he can't knock. Let him ask me, I'll show you how to do it. Next. Your Honor, this bill is necessary. It cannot only be narrowed down until the amendments to article 149 of the Criminal Code are made. By the way, I wish the authors not to be included in article 149 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code. We worked very hard on it, and we worked on it for three years. There are all kinds of options. You don't really need that. And that law you're proposing against trafficking in human beings, that's what you need to focus on. Because of this, it's absolutely right, a timely law that goes into the drafting of the ratified 21st September of the Council of Europe Convention on Action and on Opposition to Trafficking in Human Beings, and that's why we have to adopt it in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u157	Oleg Zarubinsky is one minute, faction of the People's Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u158	It's all different fates. Someone has achieved life’s success, someone thinks that the bull has taken horns, like some of our colleagues. And someone found themselves on the sidelines, being deceived or being deceived, but in a civilized state, there can be no citizens of favorites and citizens who are being evicted. This bill is dedicated to those who have been rejected, who no one can protect, who do not have expensive lawyers. They don't have profiled media, they don't have anyone to protect. This bill is aimed at helping these people. You can throw it away, you can throw it away, but you can't take away the problem that's not settled, it's not settled, because that's what your fellow Smith said, if it were settled, we wouldn't have hundreds of thousands of slaves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u159	Thank you. Dear colleagues, Valery Beavez from the faction, please, 1 minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u160	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, well, first of all, Bevaz expressed the position of the committee, not his own personal one, that's the first. The other one. After all, I would recommend to such passionate speakers who were here, sorry for the harshness, but still the material part has to be studied, and National Deputy Carmazin faithfully said, "Article 149 of the Criminal Code has settled all the issues." Moreover, we joined the European conventions on trafficking in human beings in 2005, and in 2006 all the changes were made. So before making any decisions, we should think hard. And the last. You know, when we say that Europe tells us that we don't have any legislation, let's still stand up for the position that we have this legislation. And it will work when it is constant, not when we make changes every day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u161	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. I'm just trying not to. One minute, yes, now we're going to take into account all the suggestions. Honorable colleagues, as to the requirements that the MPs make for giving a word for a replication. I remind you, in accordance with article 51, paragraph 4, if a national MP speaks abusively at the address of another national MP or a deputy faction, the presiding officer should warn him to stop these indecencies and grant the right, preferably, for the appropriate replication. We didn't have a big picture here. Therefore, there is no right to reply. That's the first one. The other one. Dear colleagues! I think that according to a large account, I should have thanked Oleg Zarubinski, who did the job for the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. And the need for the development and adoption of the Anti-Trafficking Act lies in a package that we have to take to address visa issues and the commitment to the Council of Europe. It's an incomplete law, everyone agrees. So we have a committee for this, we have the National Deputies and the Cabinet of Ministers and the Cabinet of Ministers to prepare this bill for the second reading and accept it properly. Let's mark everything, point out that we're all set. This too will be true. But at the same time, our negotiators with the European community need to prove that we are settled rather than agreeing and then not signing appropriate obligations to adopt the relevant laws. We've signed it. We have to do it. Therefore, there is an offer, and the chairman of the committee stressed what. We need to remove the creation of a central executive body and accept it accordingly. [[B in m in s a l in]] One minute, well, we're not gonna delete it. Then we'll have a second reading. We'll get rid of it. Please don't insist. After removing the "specially authorized central authority of the executive branch in the field of human opposition," I think that before the second reading, we will define and propose who should coordinate this work accordingly. And in view of that, I would like to ask the Supreme Council of Ukraine to consider the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Anti-Trafficking Act. Please vote. Well, let's delete it then. Well, we're not gonna get it all out now, are we? [[12:58:49]] For 313 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, I propose to you the draft Law on the Legal Status of Foreigners and Persons Without Citizenship. [[new editor]] It's in the riverside of what I was talking about, this bill. I'm voting on a motion to consider it under a reduced procedure. [[12:59:21]] For 214 Decision taken. The rapporteur is First Deputy Justice Minister Inn Jemelyanov and the responsible Head of the Committee on Human Rights of National Minorities and International Relations, Oleg Zarubinsky. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u162	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! The development of a new edition of the Ukrainian Law on the Legal Status of Foreigners and Uncitizens is linked to the need to bring Ukrainian legislation to the Constitution and to the international human rights treaties that our State is a party to. Furthermore, the adoption of this law is one of the commitments to implement the Plan of Action for Liberalisation by the European Union of the Visa Regime for Ukraine. The Act on the Legal Status of Foreigners and Persons without Citizenship confers most of the rights of only foreigners and stateless persons who live in Ukraine on a permanent basis, and this is not consistent with article 26 of the Constitution of Ukraine, which states that foreigners and stateless persons who are legally resident in Ukraine enjoy the same rights and freedoms and have the same responsibilities as Ukrainian citizens, with the exception of the Constitution, laws and international agreements of Ukraine. In view of the above, the draft law, with a view to bringing it into line with Chapter I of the Constitution, defines the legal status of foreigners, establishes personal property and property rights, respect for dignity, and in particular honor, respect for personal and family life, work, the right to peaceful meetings, education, housing, legal aid, property rights, and so forth. The project also improved the procedure for the departure and entry into Ukraine of foreigners and stateless persons. At the level of the law, a simplified procedure for the registration of foreigners and stateless persons is established, particularly that their registration is carried out at border crossing points, and the grounds for temporary residence in Ukraine are extended. This applies to volunteers, to those who are members of religious organizations or public NGOs, or to journalists from foreign media. It is also proposed to establish grounds for the forced return of aliens and stateless persons by decision of the appropriate authorized authorities.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u163	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u164	Thank you. The bill's approval will testify to the consistent implementation by our State of a plan of action for the liberalisation of the European Union's visa regime, which our citizens also need. Please support and approve it in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u165	Thank you. Oleg Zarubinsky, head of the Committee on Human Rights, National Minorities and International Relations.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u166	Dear Volodymira Mikhailovich, honourable colleagues, the main purpose of this bill, indeed, is to remove the conflict between the provisions of the law and the Constitution of Ukraine and international human rights treaties and to bring Ukrainian legislation into line with the legislation of the European Union. The bill makes it compatible with modern requirements and European legislation with the terminology used in determining the legal status of foreigners; it clearly sets out a number of procedures related to the arrival, stay and departure of foreigners from Ukraine who were previously governed by the regulations of the Kabminu. In particular, clearly and clearly described types of visas provided by Ukraine and their terms and conditions for the refusal of a visa, a procedure has been written for crossing the state border of Ukraine, transiting and leaving Ukraine. Special attention is due to the provisions of the bill, namely, this whole chapter, chapter two, which for the first time consistently and clearly identifies the rights and duties of foreigners and stateless persons. Obviously, any civilised state should guarantee them on a legislative, not a legal, level basis. The same applies to voluntary and forced return and expulsion, the extradition of foreigners and their transfer to other nations for punishment. In fact, this bill compiles the main norms from different directions of law that define the legal status of foreigners and meet European standards. According to the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers, the implementation of the draft law will not require additional financial costs from Ukraine’s state budget, except for those that are foreseen for the respective programmes annually. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u167	Thank you. Dear colleagues, shall we vote? Ah, the discussion, let's write it down then. Names of the National Deputies, please take them to the board. Ivan Popescu, faction of the Party of the Regions. Vladimir Yavorowski will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u168	Thank you. Sand, faction of the Party of the Regions. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to pay attention to just three moments. First. Ukraine’s draft law on the legal status of foreigners and stateless persons, introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, regulates at the level of law the issue of their entry into and exit from Ukraine, establishes the grounds, order of their registration, detention, forced eviction from Ukraine, their rights and duties. One second. The adoption of the project will remove the conflict between the provisions of the current Ukrainian Law on the Legal Status of Foreigners and Persons Without Citizenship and the provisions of the Constitution of Ukraine and between the provisions of this law and the provisions of international human rights agreements. And the third moment. The adoption of this bill will contribute to the fulfilment of our obligations both to the Council of Europe and to the European Union, particularly in the implementation of the visa liberalisation plan between the European Union and Ukraine. Based on this and taking into account the Party of Regions programme, our faction will vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u169	Thank you. Vladimir Aleksandrovich Yavorowski, "BUT" faction, "Fathership". Next is George Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u170	Good afternoon, Ukraine! Dear voters and distinguished national MPs! It is no secret that our country today resembles such a dilapidated widow's yard without a fence, without a net, with absolutely nothing. Taking into account what we have, in fact, on the border with the Russian Federation is completely decomposed and there is absolutely no border, in fact, like where we can freely move anywhere, because, of course, Ukraine is turning into such an alien of all that has been evicted from other countries, or is not just needed by other countries, it's focused here on our Ukrainian territory. Because the Western border, however it may be, is controlled by our border guards, and most importantly by our neighbouring countries, Poland, Romania, Slovakia, and others. Because of this, of course, a colossal problem for us, for people living in the Ukrainian State and in 20 years, we know very well that Russia is not ready today and does not want to demarcate and mark our borders. If they had already been marked, then they could have been equipped, such as border crossings and a heavy influx of aliens, especially those who appear illegally, could have been stopped. Judging by everything, this is exactly the bill that we're discussing right now, well, it almost doesn't give us any, so there's some way to stop this problem. But on the other hand, we also need to think about it, if we are trying to do anything if we do not go, at least think about our future Ukrainian civilization, then of course we should regulate the presence of every foreigner who comes to us and does not do the stupid things that were done before Janukovic’s trip to Germany. And I'm sure it was a provocation from the team itself.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u171	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u172	against Yanukovich himself, when the leader of one of the world-renowned foundations was arrested. Because of this "Julia Timoshenko Block" will support this bill, but we believe that we will submit our additions and amendments to the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u173	Thank you. Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u174	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear national deputies, an ineffective government makes ineffective laws. Why? I ask you, are we doing the old law? What, are we doing with the Constitution? I'm talking to the head of the committee, and he's showing me that it's probably not quite. If it is possible in Ukraine that a criminal case has been brought against the deputy head of the Kharkiv Court of Appeal for three years, from 2004 to 2005, he will jump to Russian citizenship because the borders will then be open, I remind you, by decision of the courts. Remember? When Ukraine lost billions, it destroyed entire sectors. And today he needs to be held. And today he's being held by this government, this president, and you're all holding, Your Honor. That's why I'm stressing the laws that you can talk about when you've had aliens run courts, when you have foreigners in state offices and you're deciding on the name of Ukraine? And you do not want to accept the Jury Court Act, even though 15 years have been stated in the Constitution. I have a question for Mr. Lavrinovich: have you recently been awarded the Order of Merit, this is due to whom, in front of the Ukrainian people? Doubtless, because otherwise it would have been written already, the jury law would have been passed, 15 years of the Constitution. I would like to draw your attention to the devastating conclusion of the six-page Science-Expert Authority and to the conclusion of this law: "It is appropriate to return the subject to the right of legislative initiative for further development." Because of this.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u175	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u176	I'm done. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I am asking you to react as Head, as the second person in the state, to respond to my tenfold reminder that Borrodin's position in the court of the Kharkiv District Court of Appeal is unlawfully rendered by the name of Ukraine. It's a disgrace.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u177	Thank you. Thank you, especially for calling me the other person. All of it. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the proposal for adoption is based on the draft Law on the Legal Status of Foreigners and Non-Citizens. [[new editor]] Registration number 8570. Please vote. [[13:11:54]] For-300 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear National Deputies! I suggest that you consider the draft Law amending some of the Ukrainian legislation on the integration of co-owners of a multi-housing house. Registration number 8474. In view of your proposal, I am voting on the proposal, once again, to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. [[13:12:30.]] For 216 Decision taken. The rapporteur is the Deputy Minister for Regional Development of Construction and Housing and Housing of Grigory Semčuk, co-rapporteur, Head of the Committee on Housing and Utilities, Construction and Housing and Regional Policy of Igor Lisov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u178	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! Ukraine's draft law amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts has been drafted for the proper mandate of the President of our State and the Prime Minister. [[concerning the unification of co-owners]] The bill is in agreement with all interested ministries and departments. The study of OSBB’s operating practices, the integration of multi-house owners, strongly proves that the creation of such associations provides more full implementation for joint owners of multi-house houses of their property rights, enables them to have a real impact on the effectiveness of housing maintenance and services, and generally on the quality of housing and utility services. The collegiate decision - making mechanism contributes to the rational use of co-owners ’ funds, allowing them to address the urgent problems of housekeeping. At the same time, there have been some shortcomings in existing legislation that regulates the activities of joint owners. To remedy the above - mentioned shortcomings, a bill has been drafted. The draft Law provides, inter alia, for the replacement of a "unification member" to a "owner". The replacement of the "unification member" category to "joint owner" is a guarantee of the participation of all owners of apartments in the Office of Merger Affairs – in the House Management and an appropriate guarantee of their ownership rights. The term “general and indivisible property” is simply replaced by “common property”. The term "housing complex" is replaced by "rich apartment house." The land area is a very important moment, under the apartment building, the so-called wall stain, directly called in the common property of the owners of the apartments. The bill rejects the use of the term "balance-of-preservation" in relation to OSBB using.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u179	Yes, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u180	and a series of legislative proposals to regulate unification. This will make it possible to work more effectively together with fellow owners in the service market. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u181	Thank you. Yes, Igor Lisov, deputy head of the committee. Please, the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u182	Dear colleagues! The committee at its meeting on June 15 discussed the bill. The main scientific and expert office has made a number of remarks to this bill. Yet, with most things, one can agree. We've been looking at this bill in a wide range, and a lot of social organizations have been invited. From. And our colleagues in the Committee on Budget Affairs agreed to this bill, and the Committee on European Integration also made a positive conclusion. In general, in agreement with the legislative initiative, the Committee decided to propose to the Supreme Council to adopt the bill on the basis of which it was based and to finalize it for consideration in the second reading, taking into account the comments of the Chief Scientific and Expert Office and the proposals made by the legislators. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u183	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need to exchange ideas? Then sign up if you have one. No, we'll make a decision. Names of the national MPs, please. Andrew Shevchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u184	My colleagues, I just wanted to say briefly that our faction will support this bill. We have at least three very important reasons. First, we hope that the transition to the unification of multi-house owners will bring concrete benefits to every Ukrainian. That means God will give us less to pay. If we pay, we will be able to demand better quality services that do not provide us with the proper quality of the service. Another reason. We know that this bill worked together with a whole range of social organizations that have already put this concept into practice. Well, that's the third reason. We're just really convinced that our goal in this room should be very simple, the real host of this country must be a citizen. We're going to vote yes and we're going to call for support.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u185	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on a motion for a committee to adopt as a basis for a draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the merger of joint owners of a multi-family house. [[Registration number 8474]] To your knowledge, the Chief Research Authority has taken a negative conclusion. Please vote. [[13:18:03]] For 268. Decision taken. I am announcing for consideration the draft Law on Restoration of the Debtor's Payability or Recognition of Its Bankruptcy. [[new editor]] [[Registration number 8531]] The proposal to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. Do you want to postpone the discussion? Well, then let me put a motion to the vote. What is the reason? Please, Yuri Voropeyev. Now, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u186	Dear colleagues, during the consideration of this bill on our committee, it has been found that it has been subject to very large claims and expert management, and also to the Supreme Economic Court. And we asked the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to connect with the Supreme Economic Court and their specialists. And you know what these things are now. Consider and discuss these observations. Because even if we adopt this law, and in the view of the Supreme Economic Court, it will not work as it is contrary to many provisions of the Economic Procedure Code. And we gave them extra time to do that. Therefore, please postpone consideration of this bill and we will return to it later. Kabmin. agreed.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u187	Next. No, then what are we moving him to the next session? Please, what's the point of view, one minute, what's the point of view of the Cabinet of Ministers? _________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, it is indeed the order of the President of the Cabinet of Ministers to reconcile certain positions relating to cooperation with the Supreme Court of Commerce. And that's why we're asking you to move it. And in the follow-up session, we're going to introduce a harmonized bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u188	Thank you. So then, if so, then we have to call it off, and then we have to bring it in. _________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ No, it doesn't have to be rejected. It's consistent there.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u189	Please, Stanislav Arjevitin. I got it, thanks.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u190	Ladies and gentlemen, this bill is really very important, especially its new edition. This is a new version of this bill. And frankly, it could be accepted in the first reading, even though there are many unresolved issues. But given that we now have more than 10 bills registered in the hall, which are subject to similar regulation on bankruptcy or recovery. So that it doesn't work out that we're going to take those 10 bills and then we're going to be held hostage to these decisions. So I'm asking that we still didn't put those bills with this subject of regulation until we had a look at this complex bill in the new edition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u191	The offer is good, let's count it. Dear colleagues, there is no objection that we should postpone consideration of this bill? I don't see any objections. Let's put it down. Honourable National Deputies, I am announcing a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the Universal Program on Drinking Water of Ukraine for 2006-2020. There is a suggestion to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. Please vote. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Please vote. [[13:21:33]] For 214 Decision taken. The rapporteur is Deputy Minister for Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Semchuk Grigori Mihajlovich. Correspondent is a member of the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Consequences of the Chernobyl disaster, Vladimir Danilenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u192	Dear Volodymyr Mihajlovich, distinguished national MPs, your opinion is proposed by a government bill amending the Ukrainian Law on the Public Water Program 2006-2020. The draft law is designed to create conditions for the population to be supplied with drinking water of the necessary quality and in the necessary quantities. As it is known, Ukraine's Drinking Water programme has been in place for five years, but its funding at the start of the current year was only 22 percent. Hence, because of the lack of funds, a number of measures are simply not carried out. Therefore, unlike the current programme, the project provides funding for both local budgets and other sources of funding. The amount of funding for the programme for this period is 9 and a half billion dollars, including 3 billion at the expense of the state budget. What is more, this program has been brought into line with the requirements of the Ukrainian Law on State Objective Programmes, developed a passport for the program and so on. The adoption of the bill will enable the task of providing quality drinking water to the population. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u193	Yes, thank you. Have a seat, please. Vladimir Andrievich Danilenko, please, for the Committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u194	Honorary colleagues, the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster, launched at its meeting a draft of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the State-wide Program on Drinking Water of Ukraine for 2006-2020, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, and proposes that the Supreme Council of Ukraine accept it as a foundation. The project proposes to approve a new edition of the Public Target Program, Drinking Water of Ukraine for 2011-2020. According to its structure and content, the draft programme meets the requirements of the Ukrainian Law on State Targeted Programmes. The funding of the programme is projected to be made at the expense of the state budget, within the 3 billion that are to be foreseen annually by the National Budget Act for the year in question, the local budgets. The amount of funding for the program is 9.5 billion. The main scientific and expert office generally supports the project but points out the need to specify its specific provisions. The bill is also supported by the Committees on Budget and Construction, Urban and Housing and Regional Policy. In its consideration of the bill, the committee noted that only 22 percent of the measures envisaged in the previous years were funded. In addition, the State Budget 2011 Act provides 400 million dollars to implement the programme. That's 200 million more than the bill. A number of provisions of the bill are needed. For example, the volume and quality of drinking water is regulated and provided by several central authorities — Minregionbud, Statekeeping, Nature, Sanepidation, and others. I mean, the responsible executives of the program in the part of the organization and the rule of law should be listed by the authorities, not just by the Ministry.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u195	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u196	The bill lists the old name of the ministry. Thank you for your attention, and please support the decision of the committee on the adoption of the bill on the basis of further work on the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u197	Thank you. Members of the National Assembly are requested to sign up for an address if necessary. Names of the national MPs, please. Vladimir Karpuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u198	Vladimir Karpuk "Our Ukraine". Indeed, this program is quite timely. I'll remind you that it was adopted in 2005, but it's not enough to execute it. This is a very important problem because even Ukraine has only one. More than 30 percent of the territory does not have sufficient drinking water. Global experts generally view drinking water as one of the most important global challenges for the future. I attended an international conference in Israel. Virtually most countries in the world have this problem. Unfortunately, we accepted this program, but the government reporter also stated that the funding level was 22 percent. The new version provides other sources of funding. At the same time, no analysis was added to the project of what was done, what problems were encountered during the execution of this program. And I would say that the supply of drinking water in Ukraine is more a matter of state, stronger, more social than gas supply. Because there's always a lot of talk going on around the gas. Even in rural areas 80 percent or 90 percent of water sources do not meet sanitation standards, and many of the outbreaks of those infections and epidemics that occur in Ukraine are sources of water supply. So I would like the program to be real and not to have the imbalance that is in the new version of the program when it is planned for 2016 to rebuild or build new 70 watersheds, while in 2011 it is 30, in 2012 it is 40. So once again, we're moving somewhere far away, and in general, the program is up-to-date, and we're going to support it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u199	Thank you. Ivan Popescu, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u200	Thank you. Sand, faction of the Party of the Regions. High-level colleagues, a program aimed at the implementation of public policy on the provision of quality drinking water in accordance with Ukraine's Water and Drinking Water Act and on the provision of health and epidemiological welfare for the population and the implementation of Ukraine's international obligations in three directions: the first is the protection of drinking water sources; the second is the proof of quality drinking water to the requirements of a valid standard and the third is the creation of scientific and scientific and technical security. The task of protecting drinking water sources is to arrange sanitation areas for drinking water sources and to build and reconstruct sewage treatment facilities using new technologies and equipment, reconstruction, and replacement of emergency sewerage networks for collectors and their facilities. The task of proving quality drinking water to the requirements of the current standard is to inventory sewage treatment plants, to build and reconstruct water and sewage treatment plants, to install stations, to clean drinking water in a central water supply system, to develop a scheme to optimize the operation of central water supply systems, to train water supply professionals, to equip laboratories to control water quality and to clean sewage with control and analysis equipment. And according to regulatory and scientific technology, it is intended to develop legal instruments in the field of drinking water supply and water supply, to develop, improve and implement scientific research and development in this area. That's why the Party of Regions is going to be in favour, because this problem has hurt, and in these years of independence, no one has done that. A party of regions will vote in favour, also because this is the implementation of our party program. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u201	Vladimir Bondarenko, "BUT" faction, "Fatherhood."
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u202	Vladimir Bondarenko, Timoshenko Yuli Block, Reform and Order Party. Of course, creating such a program is not just in time, but it is absolutely necessary because it has been missed for decades. The problem of drinking water in Ukraine is now real to many regions. But when we talk about drinking water, we forget that today there are technical means of interfering in the underground cellars of this water that the common people could not penetrate. I remember when I was working on the Matter well on Svema, there were special technical tools to cut off the top layer of water and not to allow the spilling of this dirty sometimes, sometimes water that's highly metalized and so on. Nobody's holding on to that today. Even in conventional tax settlements, people drill water up to 150 to 300 meters, and that's all that flows up there, into that well, he thinks he's drinking good water. We need to strengthen state control, it's not in the law, unfortunately, behind drilling wells. There is another type of drinking water problem today, which is mineral water. In areas that are unique in Ukraine, this is the East, this is the Truscavet, this is Mirrod, some other regions, there are absolutely no general sewerage systems. And so when I come to the East, and I go to the springs, I see that there's toilets that aren't completely sewered. So water can't be considered without sewerage, and it has to be a state-run waste management program. There is no such program. You can just create a drinking water program, but without a sewer program, it'll be half-cocked and it won't work. And I also wanted to say that today this problem is a human problem. Yesterday I had a large group of people from the village of Morinzi, where full authority belongs to the Party of Regions. My colleague just spoke, said it was our party program. Do it at least in Shevchenka's homeland, and the district administration is a region and a village head.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u203	Thank you. Honorable National MPs, from the Catherine Samuel faction. Microphone. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u204	This year, everyone is preparing, and there are state measures to mark the 20th anniversary of the declaration of independence. And at the 20th anniversary of Ukraine's Independence Day, we raise a very important, vital question, water supply. You're talking about Morinzi, my friend. What, though, should I say in Hersonish when practically all villages, without exception, stopped having water pipes cut by water towers? People are forced into each other, if there is, to break through this well, to take water. And this is the region where the heat reaches 40 degrees in the shade. And we can smile at you and laugh, but it would be better if the money that's been "dreaked" recently was sent to the drinking water program, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u205	Thank you, thank you. Oleg Zarubinski, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u206	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Dear colleagues, I would like to point out that one of the speakers was absolutely correct in saying that the drinking water program itself, without changing the sewage situation, is nothing. But it is worth noting that the proposed bill on the task of proving the quality of drinking water to the requirements of the current standard is just as predicted, I believe that this needs to be supported, it provides for the inventory of sewage treatment plants, the construction and reconstruction of water and sewage treatment plants, the introduction of drinking water treatment stations on central water supply systems. So it seems to me that these moments that the colleagues were talking about are, to some extent or large extent, included in this bill. And one more point I'd like to say, even though it's already been said that the question is not just in the presence of water, the question is that drinking water that meets the standards is the health of the nation, it's the health of the people and it's the cost of saving, I think.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u207	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the proposal for a committee to adopt as a basis for the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the State-wide Water of Ukraine 2006-2020. [[Registration number 8511]] The main scientific and expert office also believes that the bill can be adopted as a basis. Please vote. [[13:35:34]] For-300 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to save your energy, because we still have a lot of bills. Where it's clear, let's make a decision right now. I am announcing for consideration the draft Law on Amendments to Ukraine’s Land and Forest Code for Conservation of Forests. Suggestion: To consider the issue of a reduced procedure. [[13:36:08]] For 212 Decision taken. The reporter is the head of the State Forest Resources Agency, Victor Sievez. The Coroner is the first deputy head of the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl disaster, Mikola Schershun. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u208	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! Ukraine's Law on Change to the Land and Forest Codes on Conservation of Forests, designed to improve legislation on land and forest management and to limit the removal of forests for non-forestry purposes and to regulate the removal of forest areas solely by decision of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. It is proposed to amend articles 122, 149 and the Transitional Regulations of the Ukrainian Code of Land, as well as articles 27, 31, and 32 of the Code of Forest in order to improve legislation on land and forest relations, to ensure the conservation of forests from removal, and to make an unjustified change in the target. These changes provide for the redistribution of powers between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the district of Kyiv and Sevastopol city government administrations on the transfer of land to ownership and permanent use, the removal of land of state property, as well as the application of the powers of rural, rural, city councils, executive authorities on land administration, and the delimitation of state and municipal property. The bill is aimed at resolving the following issues: limiting unjustified removals by decisions of local executives and local forest administrations, changing their purpose and giving priority to individual and residential closures, gardening, and so on. The government's refusal to reduce its forestry, the granting by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine of clearance for removal.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u209	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u210	the needs regardless of the land area. The adoption of this bill does not require allocations from the State budget of Ukraine. Taking into account that the adoption of the Ukrainian Law will allow forest conservation under the conditions of land privatization, the development of their conservation and resource potential, and the strengthening of the role of forest ecosystems in the whole and forest resources, particularly in ensuring the sustainable development of areas, will enhance the environmental security of the State. Please support the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u211	Thank you. Mikola Sherschun, first deputy head of the committee. Please make up your mind to the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u212	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! The committee reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Code of Land and Forest, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers. The main idea of adopting the bill is to ensure the conservation of forests in conditions of land privatization, the development of their conservation and resource potential, the strengthening of the role of forest ecosystems in general and forest resources, in particular in ensuring the sustainable development of areas, and the environmental security of the state. [[on forest conservation]] In recent years, local executives and local self - government authorities have decided to remove land, forest areas, change their targets, and give priority to individual and residential construction, gardening, and so forth. In order to achieve the optimum forestry rate, which is 20 percent of the area, today we only have 15.7 where forests have the most effective impact on climate, soil, water resources, resistance to erosion processes, we need to create over two million hectares of forest planting and ensure that they are preserved from removal and unwarranted change of target. It is therefore proposed that the bill amend articles 122 and 149 of the Codex earth, as well as articles 27, 31, 32 of the Codex Forest of Ukraine. The main scientific and expert management is speaking about the possibility of adopting the bill in the first reading as a basis. The committee therefore decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of a draft Ukrainian Law amending Ukraine’s Land and Forest Codes on Conservation of Forests of 12.05. [[Registration number 8489]] In 2011 Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u213	Dear colleagues! Please sign up for the discussion. Yes, please, the names of the national MPs. Taras Cranville.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u214	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues of the Ukrainian National Deputies! The MP's Reform for the Future studied the bill and decided to support it. Our motives come to the point. Today, our forest management, the forests in Ukraine are at great risk, but they are particularly hit in areas where they are used either by local authorities or by local councils, or by appropriate authorities. It is these ominous forests or forests on the lands of local self-government that are usually destroyed in the harshest way -- re-profile, change of purpose. And very quickly, in places where there were forest plantings before that, there are cottage towns. Clearly, the very principle of change proposed by this law must be the nature of the law for a period of time. This should not be reflected in the Transitional Situations, in the future, when a normal culture is produced in our authorities -- a proper normal legacy, when responsibility is irreversible, and we will know that then we will not have to look elsewhere in the world for those former heads of soldiers or miscreants who have given, made decisions on the change of purpose, we can really go back to the normal distribution of powers according to the sphere of responsibility. But today, as an absolute emergency, it is evident that this law needs support. So our MP group will vote in full for him. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u215	Please, Landik Vladimir, faction of the Party of the Regions. Get ready for Chewchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u216	Thank you. I also support this bill prepared by the Cabinet of Ministers. But I would like to take advantage of the presence here of the Chairman of the Forestry Committee, to recall that at times we have alienation from forest areas due to the lack of work done by the Committee itself. Thus, in Luhansk more than 50 years ago, the oak forest was subjected to various attacks on various structures. We've been there protecting her, but she's here today, and I'm talking to the Greys, but he's not listening. That, to date, it has not been introduced into forestry and is not protected, so to speak, this committee and at any time the local authority can release its decision under the apex is one party. And the other side is that we have forests that fit both rivers and lakes and roads. And when infrastructure develops, recreation is done, recreation is done, and various facilities are not available for human use. So let us think: We have nature for man, or for Kabmin, or for the administration of this. Here, too, we need to think and find the right solutions for people. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u217	Shevchenko's handing over Tomenka, please. Behind him is Gordien.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u218	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to say that the government's initiative is correct, but it's too late, of course. Because in order for us to adopt this decision much earlier, especially with regard to the activities of the Kiev City Administration in recent years, the district administrations, we would not today be suing the prosecutors and other law enforcement agencies for hundreds or thousands of decisions to return the forest fund accordingly, to return to the regime that would allow for the normal functioning of the environment. Instead, I think that for the second reading, by supporting the government's initiative to make such decisions solely on the basis of decisions made by the Cabinet of Ministers, perhaps we need to consider a shared responsibility that the Cabinet of Ministers approves such a decision to appeal to the local government, not the local executive authority, but local self-government. Thus, the local government assumes the responsibility that it knows that this is, say, the territory or place that can be leased for certain purposes, and the Cabinet of Ministers finally decides. Instead, I think the government would have to think about how to get out of the rent situation. Since the situation is today, there is actually a free transfer of forest conditions. We should think about maybe increasing the rent. And second position. Using the presence of government officials here, I would like to draw attention to the fact that while we're here saving a forest fund with you, now in the territory of the Polish, the Plains Reserve, the Shaka National Park, several hundred Jeeps on the freeway, by the way, headed by our deputies from different factions, I'm not going to call it a name, we can analyze it in the media. The MPs on these jeeps, by the way, one of the seven natural wonders, in the Scottish National Park, said that they would drive the jeep right across the border of the reserve and not the reserve. It's usually this filigree technique. I don't know how to adopt it, but I wanted the Ministry of Ecology and the government to respond. Because as Ukrainian national wisdom says, we need to support this bill, because we're still going to need forests.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u219	Sergey Gordijenko, Communist faction
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u220	Sergei Gordijenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Poltavščina The faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine will support the bill in its first reading. She thinks it's a good idea to increase the responsibility for forest conservation. But I would like to draw everyone's attention to one problem. You know, we have a part of the forest that used to sit down and belong to collective agricultural enterprises, the farm. Today, parts of these forests have not been transferred to a forest farm owned by the Treeshos, nor to an agrarian forest farm. And they stayed, they were hung up, they didn't belong to anyone. This part of the forest is still quite significant. And I just got a call from Poltavščina that in the village of Breezovka and Korniyevka in the region of Grebinkow, there is an extermination of these forests. Where the inhabitants of these villages did not go to preserve this very natural foundation, these forests, but no authorities are responding. So I would like to take this opportunity to consult the Ministry of Environmental Protection, the Environmental Prosecutor's Office and the Inspectorate of the Poltava Region, to take control of and control the issue of violations of legislation in the territory of the Kornijevka Rural Council, that is, the village of Korniyivka and Breezovka, and to bring responsibility to those who are now engaged in thoughtless deforestation that once belonged to agriculture and today is not passed on to anyone and no one controls it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u221	Ladies and gentlemen, the matter has been discussed. The committee proposes to adopt the bill as a basis. The main scientific and scientific management is of the same perspective. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending Ukraine's Land and Forest Codes for the Conservation of Forests. [[Registration number 8489]] Please vote. [[13:50:50]] For 280 Decision taken. Dear National Deputies! We continue our morning session for 15 minutes to 14 hours for 15 minutes. A draft Law on the Basic Principles of State Policy in the Field of Nonproductive Trauma Prevention has been announced for consideration. I'm voting on a motion to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. [[13:51:27]] For 213 Decision taken. The reporter is Deputy Minister of State Booth Vitali Petrovich. Correspondent is head of the Health Committee subcommittee Karpuk Vladimir Georgievovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u222	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! Ukraine's draft Law on Basic Principles of State Policy in the Field of Non-Manufacturing Trauma Prevention has been developed to implement the Ukrainian Cabinet Order of 10 June 2009 N 362 “On Approval of the Concept of Ukraine's Draft Law on Basic Principles of State Policy in the Field of Non-Manufacturing Trauma Prevention. The need to draft a bill is due to an unprecedented number of non-productive injuries and the absence of clearly defined basic principles of public policy in the field of non-productive trauma prevention. The death rate of non-productive accidents in Ukraine is three times higher than in countries of the European Union and other developed countries, 70 times higher than in production. Almost 200 times the number of deaths in natural and technological emergencies, which poses a significant threat to national security in the social, economic, and demographic crises. The purpose of the bill is to create legal conditions to determine the basic principles of public policy in the field of non-productive trauma prevention. In view of the above, we ask that the bill be supported to reduce the number of people killed and injured in the non-productive sphere. And to achieve economic impact as a result of the preservation of life, health and productivity of Ukrainian citizens. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u223	Yes, Vladimir Georgievovich, head of the Health Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u224	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! The problem of non-productive trauma is indeed one of the most pressing social problems in Ukraine. Every year, non-injury victims cause the death of more than 70,000 Ukrainians, which is more than 9 percent in the overall structure of the causes of death in Ukraine. Of particular concern is the fact that the impact of life - threatening injuries on the environment is one of the main causes of the death of young people between 14 and 44 years of age. In addition, Ukraine has a high total level of child trauma, 503 cases per 10,000 child population. And this is a trend towards annual growth. During the period since 1991, you will think about this terrible figure. In 20 years of independence from non-productive trauma in Ukraine, 1.3 million people have died. A high level of trauma results in huge economic losses. Our economy loses more than 10 billion dollars a year, a quarter of a consolidated budget spent on health care. Thus, the bill, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers, is certainly relevant. At the same time, there are a number of well - founded comments to the quality of the bill. In particular, one of the major shortcomings of the bill is that it does not have a clear definition of the scope of legal regulation, there is a discrepancy between terminology in the bill and the terminology of the Constitution and other valid legislative acts. And the bill is different from that concept approved by the Cabinet of Ministers. The Ministry of Health and a number of other ministries do not support the adoption of the law. The committee at its meeting decided to recommend that the bill be returned for further consideration. But given the considerable relevance of this bill and the shortening of the way for a re-examination to the Supreme Council Hall, in agreement with the chairman of the committee, Aunt Dmitry's bachelor, we suggest that we send it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u225	Thank you, too. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this issue? Yes, sign in. Please. People's deputies' names. Alexander Stoyan, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u226	Dear colleagues, indeed, a very important law. Why? Because the co-reporter gave the figures, thousands of people are killed in production, traumatized. But the question is, Why did this happen? I want to remind you that back in the '90s, the security technology was completely in charge of the workers and the unions. The unions were not dependent on the state in this regard, the unions had their inspectors working in businesses, in organizations, and they went out to factories, to factories, to mines. And if a member of the union was making a prescription, or this area where there was a security breach, or there were large fines, the managers were responsible for it personally. And I want to compare to that period and today, there was much less professional trauma at the time. What happened next? In the late 1990s, a law was passed on to the State. Now imagine, the state has its own state-owned enterprises, and the state-owned one checks its state-owned enterprise. What does he have to do to get into the protection of his work? But of course not, because he gets the job: you're looking there to make sure it's okay, because if you shut down the site or the company, it won't work. So the government official gets a salary from the state, he's dependent on the state, he's dependent on the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, and that's why today it's a practice. I think this law needs to be adopted, but in the future, maybe I'll say something right now that you don't want to hear very much, I'd say that you have to give back more powers to the Ukrainian trade unions that have national status to be equal to the State Labour Protection Authority. oversight had opportunities, as before, to test the state of protection of work. And believe me, then it will improve our work in this direction. Our faction will support this bill in the first reading, though imperfect, but we will make our proposals for the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u227	Vladimir Karpuk, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u228	Vladimir Karpuk, "Our Ukraine". I once again asked for the word to emphasize that this law really needs to be re-readed because it is extremely relevant. A number of other figures can be given. And here, Alexander Mikolaiovich, it's not about manufacturing trauma, it's about non-productive trauma. During this time, over the same 20 years, 44 million people suffered non-productive injuries. This has to do with many reasons, and legislation also needs to provide for this, first of all, to lay down the basics of activity in schools. Because if you look at it, if you read the statistics that are in the press every day, a lot of people die because they don't value their lives, they don't take into account the risk factors that are in the environment and the conditions that we live in. So that's a multifaceted question, and we're going to vote in favour of bringing this law back to its original reading. And I'm asking the hall to support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u229	Vladimir Bondarenko, "BUT" faction, "Fatherhood."
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u230	Vladimir Bondarenko, Timoshenko Yuli Block, Reform and Order Party. Well, first of all, I'm surprised at the position of the Cabinet of Ministers, because two ministries disagreed with the law, especially the Ministry of Health. And that means that the Cabinet of Ministers, by passing bills to the Supreme Council, should probably work on them in such a way that it is a consolidated position of executive power. The second thing I'd like to say is that non-productive trauma, it certainly has its reasons. First of all, the school today is producing a very important, very important direction — the training of children, the teaching of children, the training of children. There's a beautiful book, and in my day as a deputy, I put it among the schoolchildren in the area. It's called "Take care of yourself, kid!" And all the first graders, second graders, third graders, fourth class, had this kind of special class where they learned to cross the road and stuff. I would like to say that the work of the internal organs has a great impact on this problem. In particular, instead of regulating the movement, they have to charge money from drivers who are transferred to police officials all the way to Kiev, which is known throughout Ukraine. So instead of regulating the movement, ensuring the safety of the movement, they collect the taxes. Recently, the Pecher Police performed a function that was, well, repressive in relation to opposition. For example, I was stuck on two buses and I was barely alive; it was not a manufacturing trauma; the buses were carrying police numbers. My colleague, Brigintz, was hit by a bus. And the police, including what would protect people’s lives and health, were involved in beatings, including national MPs. So if today’s authorities use those organs that would work, work to protect health and life, we will have traumatism on the one hand and on the other. So the law has to be more complex and sophisticated, and it has to be returned for processing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u231	Taras Blackwall, MP's Reform for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u232	Dear Volodymyr Mihajlovich, honourable colleagues of the people's deputies, by the way, showing that four people who speak, three say that in this edition the law really does not meet the needs of the problem itself, one speaks for, but speaks of a completely different law, nothing to do with non-productive trauma. The position of the MP group "For the Future Reforms" is down to a few moments. First of all, we're questioning whether a separate law is required by law, not by the decree of the Cabinet of Ministers. The basic principles of fighting non-productive trauma there? Obviously, there must be basic principles of health care, basic principles of safety, public safety, and human security. Further, each item should be determined directly by the decrees of the Cabinet of Ministers. Because in that case it will be: the basic principles of traumatism from unscathed roads in Kiev, and so on, we'll get to the smallest bits, The second point is about the quality of the law itself. It is clear that there was indeed a discrepancy between all the information that should have been involved in its preparation, the disagreement between the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Emergency Situations, the disagreement between the authors of the law, their positions, and the basic law on security, where there were very clear formulations to be followed in all the subsequent bills, otherwise we have a tremendous variation. So we think that in the form proposed, the bill is obviously not acceptable. Perhaps it can be re-readed for the first time, although our parliamentary group also raises the question of whether it should be introduced at the level of law rather than under law. However, we ask very much in the form that there is, not to accept, because there will be readings that will lead to serious setbacks in the execution of other legislative acts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u233	I may think it's quieter there. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill is closed. The committee proposes that the subject be reinstated from the right of legislative initiative for further development. The main scientific and expert office generally believes that the bill needs to be rejected. At the same time, in accordance with the Rules, I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Law on the Basic Principles of State Policy in the field of non-productive trauma prevention. [[Registration number 7431]] [[14:04:18]] For 217 The decision is not taken. I am voting on the proposal to return the bill to the subject of the right of legislative initiative for further work. Please vote. [[14:04:42]] For 270. Decision taken. Honourable National Deputies, I propose to you the draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the rights of persons with disabilities (registration number). [[B in m in s a l in]] Right, we went on for 14 hours for 15 minutes. I went on, I went on. 20 minutes to 14. I'm voting on a motion to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] You should, you should. [[14:05:22]] For 219 Decision taken. Reporter – Deputy Minister of Social Policy Drozdova Lydia Mikolayovna and co-reporter – Head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons Suškevich Valeriy Mihajlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u234	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! The government is asking you to consider and adopt a draft Ukrainian Act amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[on the rights of persons with disabilities]] The purpose of this bill is to bring the laws of Ukraine "On Fundamentals for the Social Protection of Persons with Disabilities in Ukraine" and "On the Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities in Ukraine" into line with the provisions of the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, ratified by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 16 December 2009. In particular, the bill foresees: increasing the responsibility of the State and society to ensure the integration of people with disabilities into society, which is based on improved terms of "disability" and "disability", introducing disability discrimination, universal design and intelligent adaptation, guaranteeing that persons with disabilities are given educational services at the same level as other persons, promoting the development and use of sign language and Braille, a list of objects to which must be provided with unhindered access to persons with disabilities, taking into account the needs of people with disabilities when developing building, transport, etc. standards, carrying out research and design work, completing civic objects and transport facilities for disabled persons, taking into account the needs of persons with disabilities when developing building, transport, etc. Bringing to a single terminology and clarifying the names of rehab, medical devices, rehabilitation services according to international standards, improving the powers of the medical and social expert commission and the functions of the medical advisory commission to establish disability. The amount of expenditure on the implementation of the law will be determined within the scope of the financial possibilities each year in the drafting of the Ukrainian Law on the National Budget for Ukraine for the relevant year and in the plans of the relevant enterprises and organizations, including Crucibles. Given the above, please support and adopt the proposed draft law in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u235	Thank you, too. Valeriy Mihajlovich Suškević, head of the committee, microphone, please turn on.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u236	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! The Committee on Pensioners, Veterans, and Disabled Persons considered this vital bill for the disabled. And so I can say that this bill actually takes a significant step in dealing with the solution of the rights of people with disabilities. We started talking for the first time about the rights of people with disabilities in the context of the ratification by our Parliament of the convention on the rights of persons with disabilities. But, dear colleagues, to be honest, I'm going to be sad to vote for this bill. Because the bill, it's written like that, I'd say it's kind of lame and not systematic in terms of the rights of people with disabilities, the equal rights and opportunities of people with disabilities. Most of the bill’s provisions are of a declarative nature, and I only name one thing, practically, I don’t need expenses to solve the issues involved in the bill. It seems that not all our institutions are aware of and fully aware of the role of the convention on the rights of persons with disabilities and its system and complexity, and of all areas of life where the rights of persons with disabilities are violated. And so far, there is a lack of awareness that the provisions of existing legislation are not consistent with the UN convention. But what I'm saying is, of course, this bill needs to be supported in the first reading. The committee is obliged to deal with these issues, which have been expressed, including by the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration, which considers that there are major problems in this bill. First of all, the lack of financial and economic calculations, the clear mechanisms for implementing this, the bill. But I think you can take this bill as a basis. The committee also supports this proposal, suggests to the Supreme Council that it be accepted as a basis. I would also like to say that the Committees of the Supreme Council on Health, Budget, Transport and Communications also supported the bill in the first.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u237	Thank you. Dear colleagues! If anyone participates in the discussion, write down, then we will vote, if, by name, please. Taras Blackwall, the Reform Group for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u238	Bullying Hennadia, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u239	Then, Bully, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u240	MP Reforms for the Future, Deputy Zadirko. Our MPs will support this law, but I agree with the committee manager that this bill has some flaws. And indeed, we consider that there is no point in changing article 8 on the basis of the social protection of the disabled of Ukraine, which provides for the removal from this article of a rule according to which representatives of all Ukrainian social organizations of persons with disabilities are members of the colleges of central executive bodies. Transferred to article 12 of the law, according to which representatives of these organizations can only participate in a college of designated bodies. And this, of course, narrows down the real possibility that people with disabilities will have an impact on making decisions about their social protection. Also a strange situation. For some reason, our disabled people are entitled to travel from October 1 to May 15, but they remain disabled and at other times. So, of course, we're going to vote in favour of this bill because it's actually taking a step towards ratifying the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. But we understand that we all need to work together on this bill for a second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u241	Jaroslav Suhi, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u242	Dear colleagues, the chief caution given by the chairman, the head of the profiling committee, which is expressed in the comments of the Scientific and Experimental Authority, is some declarativeness of the bill. But I would like to remind you all that we ratified the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, and if I'm not mistaken, a huge majority of the votes, about 380 or 390 with something of a man. So all we can do here is welcome the government's efforts to negotiate*** to fill the same declarative convention with a concrete meaning. So it seems to me that for this bill we have to give the votes in the first reading to everyone. Because it is even as if, at first glance, declarativeness allows us to work together for the second reading by all the Ukrainian people's deputies in accordance with the Rules and to fill this bill with concrete, real, full and imperative content in order for this law to work as we need it. Well, there's one more thing. Some declaratory could also remove the activities of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to bring their legal instruments into line with the law adopted and in accordance with the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities that we have developed and adopted. There's a note, I want to support it. Perhaps one of the speakers will talk about the fact that it is suggested in the certificates that the cause of disability be recorded and so on. I don't think we can do that. This needs to be removed. Just like you shouldn't write to children with disabilities, what kind of disability and stuff. There are things that should be stored somewhere in the patient’s residence card but not in public documents that anyone can see. So in general, I think this bill deserves to be voted for. And until the second reading, we need to fill it together with you with a specific meaning, a real content of a truly valid law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u243	Thank you. Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u244	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill was to be reported by Mr. Tihypco Prime Minister Sergey Leonidovich. I would very much like to see him here in this rostrum in view of and in connection with this proposal for the pension reform he is proposing. You'll tell me, what's the connection? And the connection is direct. For a disabled child, only a disability category is established without the definition of a disability group and is given the same for all such children in accordance with the Act on State Social Assistance to Disabled Persons from Childhood and Children with Disabilities, which is 70 per cent of the living minimum for people who have lost their jobs. I believe that this is the basis for determining the degree of loss of health of children with disabilities, particularly the possibility for a disabled child to participate effectively in society at the same level as other children is discrimination on the basis of disability. These kids have to pay a hundred percent, of course, first. The other one. We have to do everything we can to prevent creation and including disability here in the Supreme Council Hall, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich. And when you and Adam Ivanovich, like a gypsy with the sun, are twisted by the State Budget Act, setting up volunteer budgets, and today we will consider to the end the laws, you will do everything you can to ensure that not only the disabled are present in this room because they have entered the majority, but also the disabled under another criterion. Because of this, Your Honor Vladimir Mikhailovich, I would like you to provide us with Tihypak for such drafts. For example, I will vote in favour of this bill in the first reading. Because there are also positive things, such as complementing Chapter V, creating conditions for the unhindered access of people with disabilities to social infrastructure. They're European, they're norms, they need to be developed, they're decriminalized. But we need to be filled with specific fillings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u245	Vladimir Bondarenko, "BUT" faction, "Fatherhood."
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u246	Thank you. Dear friends, when we look at today’s disability situation, there may seem to be a feeling that this category of people does not just have a second class, but is generally forgotten by society. For example, I don't know any toilets in the center of Kiev, where, in general, in Kiev where a disabled person would be free to move, to go and, well, perform the physiological function that is required. There is no such thing in the capital city of Ukraine. Many people think that disabled people are just those who have no hands, legs. There are blind people who have to use crossings, there's no sound signal. There are people who are hearingless, so they need to have special devices to enable them to live in peace. But when you look at this bill, it's not complex. It has the main task of reducing funding for work with people with disabilities. And we need to think about how to provide all the areas of life and activities of a disabled person from education, from getting a job, from getting treatment, from being able to live, from being able to work, from being able to work, from being able to work, from being able to work, from being in sports, from being a disabled sport, and from many other areas that are being forgotten. But I would like this law to predict and ask for a little work or assignment of the disabled themselves for their annual retraining. They go to so - called special medical commissions each year to prove that they have no limbs or toes. Every year you have to stand in line, take something to pass this commission, otherwise you, being disabled, are not recognized as disabled in the next stage. These are terrible things that thousands and millions of people have to do, which are obviously already living with disabilities, and they have to prove every time that they're not disabled. I feel that the role of local authorities is absolutely worthless in dealing with people with disabilities. I'm not talking about the pandas they've been talking about for decades and nobody's been doing them. And the other problems that I mentioned at the outset are also not solved. Therefore, the law must be sent back to the first time.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-05-m0.u247	Ladies and gentlemen, the bill is closed. Before the vote, I am immediately addressing the Secretariat, immediately inform the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, if there are no reporters defined in the reports of the laws, then after 16 hours the bill will not be considered. We're in no hurry. Even now, there's no word from the deputies, then there's the substitutes. With all due respect to the undersecretaries, ministers are required to be here to report. I ask the Secretariat to attend the evening session in this way and on all the following days to act. And one more moment. Now, Yuri Anatolyovich says we don't have democracy. When he allows himself to publicly criticize another person in the state, it shows that we have full democracy. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the rights of persons with disabilities. [[Registration number 8315]] Please vote. We have to finish our consideration of the question. We've started. We've got to finish. [[14:19:22]] For 278 Decision taken. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. We'll continue our work at 4:00.
