ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u1	Good morning, dear fellows! Please prepare for registration. Please enable the "Council" system. Let's register. [[10:01:23]] There are 370 national deputies registered in the session hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, let us welcome today the nominees: Vladimir Mikolaiovich Stretovich and Eugene Yakovich Sigala, and we wish to welcome them to this hall for several more decades. [[Applause]] Allow me to provide information on the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the plenary on May 18th. Yesterday, we discussed 16 issues of the agenda with you as a result of their consideration: a single decree was passed, one bill was adopted on the basis of 12 bills and two draft decrees were rejected. Please move on to daytime issues. The question is: the draft Decree amending the Supreme Council of Ukraine Ordinance on Parliamentary Hearings on "The Family Institute in Ukraine: Status, Problems and Ways of Resolution" is registered number 8486. [[on the postponement of the date to 21 September 2011]] Dear colleagues, there's a proposal by the profile committee that we should be able to move these hearings from July 6, 2011 to September 21st. Is there no objection? I think it's clear why, because we're just finishing this session in July. And it's probably more logical for us to start the next one with such a serious question of parliamentary hearings. Don't they insist on discussing it? Then please, if you insist, Paul Ivanovich Kostenko, please state your motives for 1 minute and then Karpuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u2	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! In March 2011, the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted the Order "On the holding of parliamentary hearings on 6 July of this year on the theme "Institute of the Family in Ukraine. Status, problems and ways to solve it." The committee came to the hearings, but the initiators of the bill, Bilozoz Oksana Volodymyrna and Lukyanov Katerina Eugenena, as well as the heads of a number of public organizations concerned with this problem, asked to postpone the date of parliamentary hearings from July 6, 2011 to September 21, 2011. The committee supported this proposal, taking into account that in July most representatives of public organizations, as well as a large proportion of family experts, are on vacations, are involved in the organization of the annual rehabilitation of children, as well as that administrative reform of the executive authorities, which relate to the implementation of the failed State family policy, is clearly not the responsibility for this policy in the structural unit.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u3	Thank you. Yes, please, Vladimir Karpuk, and we will vote. Carpupuk's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u4	Vladimir Karpuk, "Our Ukraine". We're going to support this bill, it's been there for three years. But, Adam Ivanovich, I am addressing you. We have registered the Bill of Parliamentary Hearings on Health Reform. An extremely important subject, extremely painful, because much is said, and this needs to be discussed. That's why I'm asking the bill to include it for the next session Sunday.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u5	Yes, Mikola Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u6	Dear colleagues! In general, I understand, but I'm afraid of one thing: that you understand the state of executive and local self-government today when administrative reform has not been completed and that general people do not know who is dealing with the problems of motherhood and childhood. One argument is that on July 6, they're on vacation -- it's kind of a valid one, but let's put it this way: if we carry it, we have to ask the government to complete administrative reform as soon as possible -- and we understand who's at the level of the area and the area, the cities care about the problems of motherhood and childhood, so that we don't hang the problem until September and it doesn't solve. Because it's kind of a logic here to move to September, but there's no emptiness in solving these issues at the local level. So I would, under such a condition that we vote to move, but with such a call to the government and the appropriate department of profile: to activate the work after the completion of the organization that deals with the problems of family, motherhood and childhood.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u7	Dear colleagues, there is a proposal to support the draft Decree 8486: the postponement of parliamentary hearings from July 6 to September 21st. Please vote. [[10:07:13]] For 292 Decision taken. Thank you. Let's go to "Other Readings." We are considering: a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Family Code on the characteristics of the adoption of individual categories of children. [[Registration number 7332]] From the Committee, the Secretary of the Committee on Family, Youth Policy, Sport, and Tourism, Najdjonov Andry Mihajlovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u8	Honourable National Deputies, Bill 7332: amending the Ukrainian Family Code on the characteristics of the adoption of individual categories of children, introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, is proposed by amending the Family Code to prohibit adoption of children by persons without citizenship and persons who are married to citizens who cannot be adopted. It is also suggested that a child who is a citizen of Ukraine may be adopted by a foreigner if he is not less than one year in charge of a central executive authority whose authority is responsible for the adoption and protection of children's rights and has reached the age of five. Also, there are clearly defined exceptions to the rules. The bill had 15 proposals, 6 of which had been rejected. The chief legal office called for a bill without notice.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u9	Dear colleagues, let's go to the repairs. Suškević does not insist, the first amendment. Amazing, 3rd. Don't insist. Shago, 4th Amendment. Don't insist. Weird, 6th, 7th. Strange, 10th. Yes, all the rest of them, dear colleagues, are accounted for. The committee suggests that we accept the second reading as a whole. The principal legal office was called upon by the bill without any notice. I am voting on the proposal: the adoption of a second reading and the whole Act amending the Ukrainian Family Code on the characteristics of adoption of individual categories of children. [[Registration number 7232]] Please vote. [[10:10:12]] For 256 Thank you. The law is passed. Consider: The bill on accounting and technical inventory of immovable property subject to State registration. [[Registration number 2788]] [[second reading]] From the committee is the deputy head of the Committee on Economic Policy, Yuri Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u10	Dear colleagues, there is a request for this bill, there is a petition, a collective appeal by city councils throughout Ukraine to review the bill, to set up a working group together with the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and to bring it forward for the next plenary week. I ask you to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u11	Yuri Mikolaiovich, perhaps we should consult. The Chief Legal Authority suggests that, given the nature and scope of the necessary drafting of the project, it would be appropriate to cancel Parliament’s decision to adopt the project on the basis and to direct its subject to the right of legislative initiative for further development, or are you working in another?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u12	Indeed, many city councils have already made a sessional decision in support of the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u13	All right, well, then, considering the committee's request, I'd like to ask Knazievich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u14	Adam Ivanovich, how can he be worked out? I don't understand. Everyone's past the deadline for making the amendments. Maybe there's a point just to look at it today and send it back for a second read? And that would be logical, and then they could give them proper advice through the MPs, and they could make it better themselves, because right now you can't improve it, because the deadline for improvement is over.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u15	I'm ready to report this bill, I repeat. Moreover, it had been considered by the Committee, I had reported it to the Committee and the Committee had approved it for second reading. However, there were representatives of social organizations, and they were here on the Supreme Council this week. There is a decision of 10 city councils in support of the bill and there is a position of the Cabinet of Ministers and the Minister. First of all, the Ministry of Justice v. the bill. I suggest we set up a working group for one week, her meeting will be held on Monday 23 May, and for the next plenary week 24-25, you will deliver it again.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u16	Dear colleagues, let's decide more democratically. I'm proposing a profile committee and I'm asking her to support the transfer of this bill to the next plenary week. Please vote. [[10:13:37]] For 264 A decision has been made. Please wait next week. The question is: the draft Act amending article 56 of the master procedural code of Ukraine. [[about the order in which to send a copy of the application]] [[Registration number 4546]] [[second reading]] Head of the Committee on Justice, Lvøcken, Ulysses Volodymyrna. Is there no reporter? Who's on the committee? Dear colleagues, take the table, there were six amendments here, five of them are fully accounted for, the 2nd Amendment of Carmazin is partially accounted for. The principal legal office was called upon by the bill without any notice. Yes, please, Julia Volodymyrna. I've practically said everything for you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u17	The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Justice considered, at its meeting on April 6, 2011, a second reading of the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Article 56 of the master procedural code of Ukraine, introduced by the People’s MP Miroshnichenko. [[about the order in which copies of the declaration are sent]] During the drafting of the bill, six proposals were made to the committee for the second reading by law-makers. The Chief Legal Authority believes that improving the existing procedure for ensuring that parties are provided with copies of applications should be taken into account by taking into account the relevant provisions of other procedural codes. The Committee generally agrees with the comments on the need for introduction, as well as the corresponding changes to article 64 of Ukraine’s HLC, articles 120, 127 of Ukraine’s CDC, articles 106, 107 of Ukraine’s KAS. I note that making such changes would not meet the requirements of part one of article 116 of the Supreme Council’s Rules. In view of the above, the Committee recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt the bill in second reading and generally as a law.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u18	Thank you, Julia Volodymyrna. Dear colleagues, I've already said that all the amendments are taken into account, only one in part, the author does not insist. The principal legal administration has made some remarks, but the committee suggests that the second reading and generally as a law be adopted. This is a proposal I'm putting to the vote. On the adoption of the whole Act amending article 56 of the master procedural code of Ukraine. [[Registration number 4546]] Please vote. [[10:16:51]] For 242 Thank you. The law is passed. There is no motive for voting because there is no basis for voting in the Rules. We are considering: a draft Act amending some of Ukraine's laws to improve legislation on the prohibition of gaming in Ukraine. [[Registration number 8024]] [[second reading]] The committee is a member of the Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship, Kranji Valerij Grigorovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u19	Honourable Adam Ivanovich, honourable colleagues, Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship at its meeting on 19 April 2011, reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws on the Prohibition of the Gambling Business in Ukraine, submitted by the Ukrainian National Deputy. [[No. 8024]] The purpose of the bill is to place interactive facilities in gaming slots. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in its conclusion of 11.02. In 2011, it was decided that the draft law could be adopted on the basis of the first reading of the bill, taking into account the comments and suggestions made. The bill contains 7 comments, of which 3 are included, 2 are rejected in connection with the amendment of the preamble to the law, 2 are rejected as not corresponding to the text of the first reading. I would like to draw attention to the fact that the bill has been worked out by taking into account the number of requests that came from committees and from the heads of the district councils of Ukraine for the continuation of the work of agrarian establishments in the form of interactive computer clubs, which have been created on the basis of a ban on gaming slots, where, usually, once the user has entered the computer, the corresponding rate is given access via the Internet or the internal network to a virtual casino with the possibility of winning a cash equivalent. The number of such clubs in Ukraine is steadily increasing. Yes, only in Lviv has the number of clubs increased by a third in the last six months and there are more than 70 such facilities. And that is the situation in almost all the countries of our country. I would also like to point out that this bill is an addition to the Ukrainian Law, which was adopted on December 22, 2010, when the committee correctly complied with the requirements of article 116 of the Supreme Council Rules was unable to fully implement the bill. The bill is initiated by the Chief Legal Authority without any notice. Ladies and gentlemen, please support the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u20	Thank you, Valery Grigorovitch. Let's get some repairs. 2 revisions. Poluniev doesn't insist. Yavorowski, 3rd Amendment. Don't insist. Poluniev, 4th. Mountain, 5th Amendment. Don't insist. The rest are accounted for. Thus, honourable colleagues, the committee and the Chief Legal Administration are the only ones in their proposals, namely, to adopt, in second reading and generally as a law amending some of the Ukrainian laws on improving the legislation on the prohibition of gaming in Ukraine. [[Registration number 8024]] Please vote. [[10:20:39]] For 251 Thank you. The law is passed. We are considering the issue of registration number 8295, the second reading of the Law on Amendments to certain legislative acts of Ukraine to simplify the procedures for the cessation of legal persons and natural persons - entrepreneurs. The rapporteur is Head of the Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship of Chechtov Mikhail Vasilovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u21	Dear Adam Ivanovich, honourable national deputies, the Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship at its meeting on 17 May 2011, reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law on the introduction of certain legislative acts by Ukraine to simplify the procedures for the cessation of legal and natural persons, entrepreneurs, prepared for re-second reading. The purpose of the bill is to simplify the procedure for the cessation of legal persons and natural persons of business and to establish the appropriateness for the head of the liquidation commission or liquidator involved in the liquidation of the legal person for the conduct of the state registration of the termination of the legal person in the order and within the time limit set by law. 39 amendments were made to the bill by the Ukrainian people’s deputies. For the second reading, 2 amendments were made by the national MP, Voropeyev, who is included. The members of the committee determined that the implementation of the bill would create conditions under which the termination procedure of the subject would be carried out on the basis of the "one window" principle and would ensure, at the legislative level, shorten the time limits for checks by the controlling authorities of those operators on which the decision to terminate had been taken. Please support the committee’s decision and vote in favour of the law in the second reading and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u22	Yes, dear colleagues, let's follow the amendments. Yes, the committee acted wisely, largely on an editorial basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u23	I counted everything, yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u24	15 repairs, Cravchenko. Don't insist. Yes, dear colleagues, I'm addressing you, I'm addressing you who made the amendments, they're not counted, but I don't see anything like that. Basically all counted or counted editorially. Nobody insists? Then I put to the vote the proposal to adopt in the second reading and in the whole of the 8295 bill to amend some of the Ukrainian legislative acts to simplify the procedures for the cessation of legal persons and natural persons. Please vote. [[10:23:50]] For 246 Thank you. The law is passed. Let's slow down our meeting a little bit. Two factions have come forward, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense" and "The Timoshenko Block is the Fatherland," about the announcement of the break, but they're ready to take the floor. They are ready to ask their questions without interruption. Please, Irina Heratschenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u25	Dear Lord Chairman, dear colleagues! On behalf of the two factions opposing this room, I would like to draw your attention to the fate of our colleague Yuri Lucenka. For five months now, Yuri Lucenko has been behind bars and the month he announced hunger. And today every hour, every day can become tragic and decisive. I want to go to the majority faction first, because Yuri Vitaliovich is also your colleague. He is a national deputy of several vocations. Yuri Vitaliyovich was delayed for five months, and this is particularly cynical when even opponents admit that he poses no social danger, that he cannot influence the investigation. And at that time, there are those in the wild, for example, who were shooting at the crowd in Lviv. Komarnicki was released, who not only robbed Kiev but was arrested for a robbery. Today, there are actually people on the loose who have hit the top of the list of authorities who have beaten the fishermen. And there are thousands of such cases. But somehow only opposition politicians are at stake. And in fact, we're addressing the authorities first. Because powerful power, in fact powerful power, respects, not destroys opponents. Today, more than a hundred members of the Supreme Council were ready to take Lucenka into custody. And the heroes of Ukraine signed on to it. But the court does not take these arguments into account. Dear colleagues! When representatives of another camp took two national deputies or 10 years ago, they were released under precaution. Do we not realize today that we are not only killing Yuri Lucenka by our silence but also by Ukraine’s reputation? Ukraine, which today presides over the Council of Ministers of the Council of Europe And the fundamental here is the protection of human rights in Ukraine. Please tell me, what is the protection of human rights in Ukraine if a person is on trial for incomprehensible accusations? Moreover, daily TV journalists, other media journalists, publish articles that say that today, because of the kind of faults Lucenko is behind bars, we have a team of ministries and clerics, stylists who are tasked with raising lipsticks for their leaders. And they get high wages for that and they're in the service. Lucenko is now in prison. We call on fellow MPs to forget about political belongings here, to mention that we are primarily human beings. And turn to the Attorney General's Office, to the authorities demanding a change in the precautionary action of Yuri Lucenko. This is becoming, you know, just a problem not only for his family, not only for his colleagues, but for Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u26	The question is: a bill amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[on the increase in the income of the general government social insurance budget in the context of the global financial crisis]] [[Registration number 6115]] Deputy Head of the Committee on Social Policy and Work, Suhi Jaroslav Mihajlovich Dry, on the rostrum. So he'll take the papers. It still feels like a Galician root, and it's pulling it to our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u27	We, Adam Ivanovich, are all discussing an event in the hall today, and you do not know about it. Dear colleagues, the 6115 bill is proposed for your consideration until you are accepted for second reading. Allow me a brief introduction to history. From 1999 to 2003, you and I here in this room, carrying out the 1993 concept of social security, it's extremely difficult, stubbornly, and I see a lot of colleagues on the Committee of Socialists who were working with us at the time, transferring social security to social insurance rails. It wasn't easy, it was hard. But imagine now if these social insurance funds had ceased to exist, where we would have taken almost 200 billion dollars to pay the regressors, hospital bills, births, unemployment, pension payments, so these funds need to be supported. In the era, during the beginning of the financial crisis, and during the financial crisis, Kabmin was given an order that allowed no payment to the fund to be paid, only to pay a salary. As a result, 700 million dollars are owed to the regressors today. Dear colleagues, these are the people who have lost their health, and the families are the ones who have lost their lives who will come here to Kiev with helmets because they have nothing to pay for, just a little while longer. The unfortunate, temporary loss of work, the same letters came to you as I did, no hospital bills were paid, no money was given to be buried after death. Well, there's no such thing as miracles or miracles. A person who pays for his salary should be able to contribute to his household. What are these contributions? Let me remind you a little bit. Unemployment is only 2 per cent of the employer's and half a percent of the employee's salary fund. The temporary loss of employment is 2.9 employers, half of whom are employed. It's a small amount, but in the entire amount of the pay fund, it was a problem. The bill was therefore discussed for a long time in the working groups. [[6115]] We have decided to ask the Supreme Council to approve a comparative table, but the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration has commented on the changes to the Ukrainian Act on Executive Conduct. So we decided that the text of the bill would meet the requirements of articles 22, 55 and 124 of the Constitution, delete part of chapter I of the bill, take note. And one more thing. My colleague Shevchuk and I will introduce Bill 8508, which deals with amending the Law on Executive Conduct, so that there will be no conflict between the laws governing the foundations of the social stratagem and the executive conduct. So I'd like to go to the repairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u28	Thank you. Please National Bank, 9th Amendment. Don't insist. Seminoga, 10th. Don't insist. Corge, 12th. No, it's not. Seminoga, 17th. Nor does he insist. Corge, 24th. 25th, Seminoga. 27th, Seminoga. Then it goes back to 24th. Counted. 32nd, Corge. 34th. Seminoga, 35th. The rest is taken into account. I am voting on the proposal of a profile committee: to adopt, in a second reading, the Act amending some of the laws of Ukraine to increase the income of the general government social insurance fund budget in the context of overcoming the effects of the global financial crisis. Please vote. [[10:32:43]] For 239. The law is passed. We're looking at a draft law amending the Ukrainian Advertising Act. [[on how late the TV program will end]] [[Registration number 6429]] Head of the Committee on Freedom and Information, Helen Condratuk
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u29	Dear colleagues! At a meeting of the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information on 20 April 2011, in the process of preparing for the second reading of the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Law on Advertising of Ukraine. [[Registration number 6429]] A decision has been taken by the committee to withdraw the bill mentioned above. In this connection, an appropriate draft regulation was registered, which, in accordance with part two of article 48 and part two of article 95 of the Supreme Council Act, proposes that the Supreme Council of Ukraine decide to withdraw the bill, registration number 6429, and to recognize that the Parliament Order of 1 January 2010 was invalidated as a basis for the above-mentioned bill. I will point out that this decision has been taken by the Committee in view of the fact that the bill in question is contrary to current world practice and international standards in this area, particularly the one in force for Ukraine at the European Convention on Transborder Television. Following the foregoing considerations, the committee decided to review the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the withdrawal of the draft Law on Amendments to Advertising. Please support the committee's decision and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u30	Yes, dear fellows, let's do it this way. This is both a second reading and not a second reading, because a decision is being made, so I probably have the right to be able to discuss it. Please, Olena, sit down. Sign up for factions, please. All right, one minute and that's enough, dear colleagues? Yeah? All right, one minute at a time. Please, Haszuk, the Reform Group for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u31	Please give my word to Deputy Hajduk.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u32	I didn't hear. Gushuku?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u33	Please pass the word to my deputy Traduk.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u34	Three mikes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u35	Traiduk, the Reform Group for the Future. Dear Adam Ivanovich, honourable deputies, on December 1, 2010, you and I voted in favour of this bill in the first reading by a constitutional majority of 309 votes. There was only such a note of our scientific expertise, there was a purely stylistic question that was solved. Let's just say, we're all already with you, I'm sorry, we got diapers, we got other questions. And every consumer has a right to know how long will this commercial go? And this bill is doing this right now. And one more thing I'm asking you, there's not much time.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u36	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u37	So let's say that there is no such thing in the convention, such an object in this law, on the contrary, there is a call for streamlining consumer issues and advertising. That's why it's very much here.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u38	Thank you. Vladimir Leschenko, Communist faction. Vladimir Bondarenko prepare.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u39	Please pass the word to Alexander's Ally Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u40	Alexander's Alla, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u41	Alexandrovsky, the Communist faction, the city of Harkov. Dear colleagues, all voters are groaning from this advertisement, which makes them watch completely absurd, very often unethical, very often offensive even things. In due course, we have limited advertising time, we have made it possible to mark the beginning of advertising, the conclusion of advertising, at least to show that it is advertising time to be able to control it. Because we know how much money is spent on advertising and how expensive it is. And that pays for, in the end, the consumer, that is, the viewer. People are groaning and asking to limit their advertising time. Would we at least want to make amendments so that the person watching the art movie, the show, knows how and when this commercial is going to end so that he doesn't end up watching the crap they're putting on him? And today the Committee has exceeded its powers, why it has decided at the second reading stage.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u42	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u43	The Committee exceeded its powers at the second reading stage, failed to perform the function they were required to perform under the Rules, to review the amendments, to table two for us and to make proposals for deviations. This is completely wrong from the point of view of the Rules and I insist that the Committee fulfil its functions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u44	Please, Mikola Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u45	Dear colleagues! I want to draw your attention to the situation surrounding the bill, which is an eternal problem when we think about how to find compromise and balance between a television player, who is the majority of the population of Ukraine, or, in fact, the entire population of Ukraine and the television industry. I would talk about the logic of the committee if we were in 2009 when there was a financial and economic crisis. Today, television and advertising figures have gone up seriously. You can see today's "Inter" television channel, which today's former Russian and non-single stars invite millions of dollars to their programs. I have a question: what do they not do in advertising? So I think we need to prepare for the second reading. I'm against filming this bill because there are viewers' interests and the Supreme Council must first and foremost protect the interests of the viewers, not just the owners of television companies. What's more, as television companies now work, don't you see, they synchronize the advertising time and you click all the channels and all the channels at about the same time go to advertising, so you're deprived of the choice at all as an viewer to do something. So the idea of the law was right: there's a counter and we know the advertising goes so much, so much. Moreover, this helps the National Television and Radio Council to monitor whether our bill on the length of advertising is being implemented. So I'm against taking off this bill, preparing for the second reading and voting for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u46	Please, Chechetov. Then there's Zarubinsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u47	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! We also fully support the position expressed by Nikolai Tomenko that when the situation is deadlocked, the procedure should be looked at in the Rules. Therefore, no one revoked the right, no one gave the Committee the right to cancel the second reading, since 20 members so desired. There are 450 MPs in the room, there's a public, there are millions of telegraphers who also have a point of view, they just can't say here. Therefore, I think it is a perfectly correct decision that Mr. Tomenko, Vice-President of the Supreme Council, said that the Committee should be instructed to prepare the law for the second reading procedure and to continue to consider it on a procedural basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u48	Please, Zarubinsky Oleg.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u49	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Dear colleagues, advertising is a big business, a rich market with many lobbyists. I don't think people's deputies or committees have to act as tools to realize the interests of exclusively advertisers, advertising. That's the first one. One second. I think the key question here is to identify, what is the primary interest of the consumer or the interests of the advertisers? What is more, you need to build a hierarchy of consumer interests and buyers. In view of these two circumstances, trying to reject this law, this bill, I think, is not only valid but also unfair. So I think the whole room should vote in favour of this bill because it is in the interests of the consumer and the consumer.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u50	Thank you. Dear colleagues, so that we can be understood by the electorate. We're with you, I think we've made a perfectly logical decision, we're not banning advertising, we're just saying in this law that after the moment the advertising starts, the time should be given when it ends. I mean, no one forbids advertising. We just let the viewer know that the commercial break will be over in 5, 7, or how many minutes. I don't see any attack on those who want to advertise and make money on it. So maybe the committee has the right to make the decision that he made, and we're not going to say that they should just make that decision. The only thing you know is that the committee's decision is not final, because the final decision is taken by the session hall, the Supreme Council. So first, I'm putting to the vote the draft Decree number 6429 on the withdrawal of the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Advertising Act. [[on how late the TV program will end]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[10:43:49]] For -6 The decision is not supported. So, dear fellows, I'm asking the profile committee to prepare this bill for second reading. The draft Act amending article 34 of the Ukrainian Road Traffic Act is under consideration. [[on the notification of the registration of means of transport of the Civil Protection Operations Service]] [[Registration number 4723]] Deputy Head of the Transport and Communications Committee Mironenko Mikhailo Ivanovich Mikhailo Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u51	Dear National Deputies! The National Deputies of Ukraine Vasilnik, Calchenk and Bondarenko submitted to the Supreme Council a draft law amending article 34 of the Ukrainian Road Traffic Act. The drafters propose to introduce a notice of registration and accounting of the means of transport of the civil protection intelligence service, to amend article 34 of the Ukrainian Road Traffic Act accordingly. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Transport and Communications on April 14, 2010, reviewed the bill and recommended that the Supreme Council of Ukraine direct its subjects to the right of legislative initiative for further development. On February 17, the Supreme Council of the Plenary considered the bill and adopted it as a basis. During the drafting of the bill, members of the committee found that it was impossible to prepare it for second reading without violating article 116 of the Ukrainian Act on Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Because of the fact that the offer of Ukrainian national deputies to Makeenka, Greenewecko, Donczak, and others refers to the introduction of a noticeable registration and billing, as well as to transportation facilities, by the State Border Service of Ukraine. In addition, the Committee has repeatedly been asked to establish a specified registration system for the transportation of the State Special Transport Service and the Administration of the State Special Communications and Information Protection Service. Taking into account the above, and in accordance with article 2, article 95 of the second article 48 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the members of the Committee at its meeting on 11 May 2010 decided to submit to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Decision on the withdrawal of the draft Law of Ukraine amending article 34 of the Law on State Movement and the recognition of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Order of 17 February 2011 on the adoption on the basis of the draft Law of Ukraine amending article 34 of the Law on Road Traffic, which had become invalid. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u52	Yes, thank you. Do you understand the position? No one else's mind?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u53	None. Then I put to the vote the proposal for a profile committee: to adopt Order No. 4723 on the withdrawal of the draft Ukrainian Law amending article 34 of the Road Traffic Act and to accept that the Supreme Council of Ukraine Order of 17 February this year on the adoption of this law is invalid. Please vote. [[10:47:54]] For 236 Thank you. The decision is taken. The law is out of the question. The draft Law on Amendments to the Tax Code of Ukraine and the approval of export duty rates for certain types of cereals is under consideration. [[Export]] [[second reading]] [[Registration number 8321]] Head of the Committee on Finance, Banking, Tax and Customs Policy, Vitaly Yuriovich Homutinnik
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u54	Dear Adam Ivanovich, a respected colleague, discussed the draft law under registration number 8321, which was further elaborated on the second reading. The committee received 41 proposals from Ukrainian national deputies, and some of them were taken into account, some were rejected, 13 were counted, 4 were partially taken into account, and the rest of the amendments were rejected. The essence of the bill is that in fact all positions are resource standards for an additional, for additional revenue. The total cost of these proposals is about 3 billion dollars, so each amendment, each proposal, is directly related to the budget and, accordingly, to the same budget. Therefore, the committee is ready to consider and follow the amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u55	Yes, thank you. Vitaly Yuriovich, one general question. I think it's interesting to everyone. What did we leave in this bill from our first reading? Yes, so that the colleagues are more oriented.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u56	So I'm a little short. We excluded two positions from this bill in the second reading. First position. This committee is proposed not to raise the interest rate on oil and gas condensate. As well as the pay for tangos according to the same standards. Why did this position of committee report to the government? We've raised these same rates by 1.4 percent since January 1st of this year. So 40, 1.4 times, 40 percent. And now it's proposed to raise by 7.2 percent. In view of the situation today in the oil market and with price policies for fuel-oil materials, we have proposed to leave the rate in force in the Tax Code. What's more, I want to remind you that there's a correction coefficient in the code, which depends directly on the price, the world price for a barrel of oil. We wrote that this coefficient, if 560 gallons of oil is going to cost, this coefficient is automatically applied to the Tax Code. Given that world oil prices are now over $110, the corresponding automatic correction factor in the Tax Code is automatically operating. And it's going to add up to 1.8 times. So this position was, was suggested to leave this position at this level. Also, the committee suggested not to increase the current tariff allowance for electricity and heat. The proposal ranged from 3 to 4 percent to raise the supplement. It's also a resource standard of 490 million. But after consulting and offering alternative sources of income, we also recommended that this position be rejected. There's an amendment of the Karakai national deputy Yuri Vasilovich, which is the position of the iron concentration. [[Amendment No 29]] The table reads: For decision-making by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. But the committee's decision was, it's just not reflected here, in the table to just reject that proposal. So if Parliament agrees that 29 amendments should simply be rejected, everything else is balanced and agreed upon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u57	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's go to the repairs. Two o'clock, Maibeard. Don't insist. Voropeyev, 3rd. Don't insist. Holy, 4th. Don't insist. Cory Victor, 6th, 5th, I'm sorry. Raven, 6th. No, it's not.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u58	Is he insisting? Please, the microphone, the raven.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u59	Dear Vitaly Juryevich, you may not have looked very carefully at my amendment 6. Why? Because you haven't been in our room for the first year, and the VAT on the port charges has been in this room for 15 years, and it's been out of line for 15 years. Why? Because a temporary, meager budget replenishment is supposed to lead to enormous losses in Ukrainian seaports. These losses are calculated several times higher than what we will temporarily receive in the budget. And if you talk all over the transport system, I gave you a justification there that about 25 billion of us would just lose our income. If the port of Odessa 450 million loses and loses 12 million cargo. We therefore insist that this amendment be adopted.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u60	Vitaly Yurievich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u61	Thank you. First of all, we've figured out, of course, this and other amendments to the value added tax and these positions are resource once again. Directly your amendment will cost 264 million dollars for the budget. In order to address this issue, you had to work with the Ministry of Finance and the Committee in the working order to offer alternative sources of coverage if accepted. So right now, I wouldn't recommend making that decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u62	Please, the 6th amendment of the raven is a vote. [[10:56:08]] For-47 Not supported. Greenewic, 7th. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u63	Thank you. Adam Ivanovich, my amendment is similar, and I would like to point out that the adoption of this draft law provides for the mandatory integration of VAT into the rates of port assemblies and fees for foreign vessels, which is not in any of the foreign ports of the Black Sea basin and is contrary to international maritime practice. According to experts, the numbering of VAT on port assemblies, which is actually a 20 percent increase in the cost of shipping, we're going to have hundreds of millions of dollars on all ports. In my opinion, increasing revenue to the State budget is more appropriate than imposing additional payments and taxes, but rather by successively adopting a number of measures, including improving existing legislation, is the full implementation of containers in domestic ports, by amending the Law.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u64	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u65	Thank you. This is also the development of inland container transport by water, and most importantly, the adoption of this amendment is not in the national economic interest and threatens the loss of transit status. I'd like to listen to this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u66	Yes. Thank you. The answer was already to the committee. I'm putting the 7th and the 9th, they're somehow a technical error, the same amendments, on the vote. I'd like to make up my mind. [[10:58:08]] For-43 Not supported. 16th, Gordien? Don't insist. 19th, 20th. Stick, 21st. Don't insist. Romaniuk, 22nd? Don't insist. It's the 23rd. 24th. Yeah, 28th, Stick. Don't insist. 29th. We need to make a decision. Yes, Vitaly Yuriovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u67	Yeah. The committee proposes to reject this amendment. This is about a 50 - percent increase in the price of nadra for iron ore. We believe that the first reading suggested an increase of 50 percent, which is a sufficient increase. This position is going to cost 171 million dollars. In addition, I think, and we've consulted the committee that it's not appropriate to increase it yet.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u68	Yes, Your Honor, may I have your attention? The 29th Amendment of Colleague Karakiah, the committee did not take a decision. I mean, we need to be clear with you. I'm putting 29 amendments to the vote. I'd like to make up my mind. [[10:59:39]] For-0 Not even Karakai voted. Zero. So the first reading is left. Casualty Grigory, 36th Amendment. Don't insist. And 37th, Carmazin. Don't insist. Yeah, 40th, Carmazin. Don't insist. And the last one, 41st, the raven. Are you insisting? Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u69	Once again, I would like to recall the losses that may have occurred in Ukrainian ports and to take this very seriously. Our MP faction will not vote in favour of this law, and I think it's not just ours. The point is, everything is on the committee, and once again I don't understand what you're saying, Vitaly Juryevich, that we had to work with someone there, we haven't been working in this room for the first year, and we're working with everyone. This issue has not even been considered on our committee. You didn't give it to us or invite us to a meeting of your committee. That is why I am still insisting on the amendment that I have not only made: the VAT on ports needs to be removed. [[and Greenewite, and a number of deputies]]
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u70	We couldn't help but invite you to a committee meeting. A committee meeting isn't such a closed club. This is a normal, working, professional discussion. So if you wanted to, you'd find a way to be present at the committee meeting.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u71	Fellow Members, the 41th Amendment of Deputy Yuri Crook is a voter. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:01:56]] For-21 Not supported. Please, the microphone, the Sphinx.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u72	Dear colleagues, my table of amendments, which I have made, is not in the table and there is a document that is officially marked. I think there's been some kind of technical misunderstanding. I therefore request that the vote be put to the vote: to exclude the increase in the use of nedrama for the following minerals: metal ore, iron ore for enrichment, iron ore to enrich the contents of magnetic iron, less than 20 per cent; iron, rich, fireproof raw materials, is a dolomite and a flute message. This is in the comparative tables below the numbers 23, 24, 25 and 40. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u73	Thank you. Dear colleagues, you've heard of the transcripts we've recorded. The committee has not been defined purely technically, it is a submission, it is the submission of a national deputy, Dmitr Sphenov. I'm putting this amendment to Sphenov's vote, to the decision of the session room. Please vote. [[11:03:22]] For 227 Counted. So, dear fellows, you and I have been through all the adjustments. I'll put it to a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u74	For the stenographer.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u75	For the transcript, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u76	Yeah, I'd like a stenographer, too. This law introduces export duties by the end of the year on grain crops from nine percent to fourteen percent. The law goes into effect from 1 in the next month, and I would accordingly like for the transcript to be fixed so that the government in that time will accordingly cancel the quotas that are in force today. Because it can't work at the same time, and it'll take out customs, and quotas, it's just a stenographer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u77	Yes, given the head of the committee, I am proposing the adoption of the second reading and the whole Act of 8321 on Amendments to the Ukrainian Tax Code and the approval of export duty rates for certain types of grain crops. [[Export]] Please vote. Although it's not just about the grain. Vote. There's, there's a little bit of seed up there. [[11:04:46]] For 226 The law is passed. The draft Ukrainian Act amending certain laws of Ukraine is under consideration. [[on accreditation in Ukraine of separate branches of foreign legal persons]] [[second reading]] [[Registration number 5148]] From the committee, Alexy Plonikov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u78	Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! Ukraine's draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on accreditation in Ukraine of separate branches of foreign legal persons was introduced by the previous Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on 21.09.2009. Then he was replaced with changes in the government on 29.03. 2010 The Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation on accreditation in Ukraine of separate branches of foreign legal persons in the first reading of 29.06. In 2010, she commissioned the Economic Policy Committee to finalize the draft draft for second reading. During the drafting of the bill, 300 proposals were made to the committee for a second reading of the draft law, most of which referred to changes in the text of the bill adopted by the Supreme Council as the basis for the first reading. A comparative table was drawn up in the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, namely: the Ministry of Economics, the Ministry of Justice, the State Committee on Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship. By this time, however, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine had not produced a single conceptual approach to resolving the issue, on which ministries and authorities had informed the Cabinet of Ministers, and he in turn asked the Committee not to ask questions for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thus, in view of the appeal made by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Committee on Economic Policy was unable to bring to the attention of the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft text of the Ukrainian Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts on accreditation in Ukraine's territory of separate branches of foreign legal persons. On the basis of the above, the committee repeatedly asked the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s management to bring the matter under review and to place it in the agenda only after a proper submission from the committee. This was the position of the Economic Policy Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u79	Dear colleagues, this bill in the first reading we adopted almost a year ago, so I don't have a choice but to put to the vote the proposal for acceptance in the second reading that we adopted in the first reading. This is a proposal I'm putting to the vote, and I'm asking you to identify yourself. It is put to the vote by Bill No. 5148 on the adoption of the Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts on accreditation in Ukraine of separate branches of foreign legal persons. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:08:35]] For-37 Thus, the bill did not get the necessary number of votes. Declined. We are considering a draft Act amending the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine. [[on the participation of the national jury]] [[Registration number 8308]] Reportedly, the first deputy head of the Committee on Law Enforcement, Vladimir Mikolaiovich Olijnik. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u80	Dear Adam Ivanovich, Honorary Fellows, Committee of the Supreme Council for the Legislative Security of Law, prepared for review in a second reading and submitted by the People's Deputy Philippenko, Draft Act amending the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine. [[on the participation of the national jury]] I would like to remind you that this bill proposes to eliminate the national jury's institution in criminal proceedings as obsolete and as it has lost its relevance. The committee disagrees with the proposal proposed by the author and notes that the need for the participation of the national jury in criminal proceedings is due to the fact that the area of criminal and procedural legislation is the most sensitive, where rights and freedoms of the citizen are most often restricted and then requires effective criminal and procedural guarantees to protect these rights. Yes, the very existence of the National Parliament is a requirement of article 124, part 4, of the Constitution of Ukraine. During the drafting of the bill, one proposal came to him for rereading the bill from the Ukrainian national deputy Carmazin, the amendment number six, page two. The committee decided to reject it. In general, 29 proposals came to the bill, 25 of which were taken into account entirely, partially, or editorially, and 4 were rejected. The committee suggests that it be accepted in the second reading and generally as a law.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u81	Dear colleagues, let's follow the amendments. There are adjustments, there are adjustments.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u82	Well, there's a chart somewhere. I have, at least, a meaning and you should have it. Yes, would you please 2 corrections for confirmation? Mikhail Vasilovich? 2 amendment for confirmation. And she does, that's what I understand, 2nd and 3rd. Right, Vladimir Mikolaiovich, this is the same amendment, isn't it?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u83	No, it's not.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u84	So that's right, 2 of Carmazin's revisions are edited. It's on confirmation. I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:11:55]] For the The first reading is left. 3 amendment for confirmation. I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:12:17]] For-22. Not confirmed. 5 amendments for confirmation, this is my colleague Vlasenka, who is edited. Please, Vlasenka's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u85	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, I ask you to support this amendment. Since the current Constitution of Ukraine provides for the possibility of direct participation of Ukrainian citizens in the administration of justice in just two ways: jury and national jury. If we are now completely eliminating the National Parliamentary Institute, we are practically eliminating the possibility for Ukrainian citizens to exercise control over the administration of justice. We have already practically removed people from the formation of the legislative body. We've practically taken people away from the Cabinet of Ministers by now. We don't have a presidential election today. We practically destroyed the system of local authorities by removing people from the elections. So to keep people away from the expulsion of justice, I don't think it's going to be, well, first of all, it's not common sense. And secondly, this is going to be a direct violation of the Constitution of Ukraine. Please support the minor correction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u86	Yes, of course. The amendment shall be voted on. Please vote. [[11:13:56]] For-33 Not supported. 9th Amendment to Carmazin for Confirmation. Wait, the 7th Amendment of Moses. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u87	Vladimir Moses, Party "For Ukraine! Dear Adam Ivanovich, your honorary colleagues, in two articles of the Constitution: 124th and 127th are about the participation of the people in the exercise of justice. My amendment was rejected in connection with a committee that included the correction of Sweden. But today we did not confirm Sweden’s amendment. So I suggest that the jury participates in the prosecution of three plus two professional judges when the defendant is more concerned about it. And please put her to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u88	Please, what's the committee's opinion?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u89	Well, this amendment was only rejected due to the acceptance of Amendments 3 and 4.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u90	The 7th amendment shall be put to the vote. [[11:15:18]] For-50 Not supported. Yes, please, by the 9th Amendment. But the 9th amendment, respected colleagues, is rejected because it is contrary to article 116 of the Rules. Mikhail Vasilovich, what's your offer? Please, Checht Mike.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u91	To support the 9th article put.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u92	She's in conflict. Nine, she's in conflict.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u93	The 9th amendment you insist on, Mikhail Vasilovich, is rejected because it does not correspond to article 116 of the Rules. There's no need to bet on confirmation because it's off-limits. You got it?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u94	You got it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u95	So we don't vote on the 9th.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u96	Is it rejected?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u97	It's rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u98	Yeah, let's move on. Counted, counted, counted. 10 amendment for confirmation. Please, what's the committee's opinion? It's counted. Yeah, yeah. 10 amendments, please. Then I put 10 amendments to the vote. What is the opinion of the committee, Vladimir Mikolaiovich? [[11:16:51]] For 1 Not confirmed. 11th for confirmation. What's the committee's opinion?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u99	This amendment has been rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u100	Yeah, try it. Hairpiece, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u101	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Mr. Olinick, how is it rejected when it's accounted for? So you were asked the committee's opinion. And according to the committee, this amendment is correct and counted. Then I have a big request. When you report it, report to the committee's position, not to the faction of the Party of the Regions in this regard. This amendment is taken into account by the committee. So I don't see any reason to put it on any kind of confirmation or non-assistance. Once again, the amendment referred to the possibility of the people directly participating in the administration of justice. There are other reasons and opportunities for citizens to participate in the administration of justice, which is directly provided for in the Constitution, there is no such thing as justice. Only in the form of a national jury. I don't understand this desire to throw people out of everything, including the ability to influence justice in any way. I realize that the courts are already privatized and that it is better to listen to cases by those judges who are so-called professional. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u102	Committee opinion, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u103	She was counted, I'm sorry. Because it was editorially decided to go back to the original edition of part one of article 18 of the Criminal Procedure Code.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u104	Yes, 11 revisions of colleague Vlasenko count. But MPs insist on a vote to confirm it. I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:19:02]] For-63 No correction supported. Carmazin's 12th amendment is confirmed, please identify yourself. [[11:19:24]] For-12. The first reading is left. 13th Vlasenka. Microphone, please, Vlasenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u105	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Well, first of all, I thank you for today's strict adherence to the Rules and rejecting the amendments that conflict with article 116, and I hope that this will be the case all day today, not just according to this bill. As far as this amendment is concerned, once again, I would like to stress that the honourable colleagues, the valid Ukrainian Constitution, provide for the participation of citizens in the administration of justice. Citizens have already been deprived of any capacity to influence the functioning of the state. Citizens have nothing to do with the formation of the Cabinet of Ministers. Citizens have no relation, in fact, to the formation of a higher legislative body. And this bill is trying to remove citizens from the impact on justice in the procedural ways that were established by codes and laws, that's on the other hand. On the third hand, I want to remind you of one of the positions of the Constitution that says that the rights of citizens cannot be reduced in relation to those that have already been declared. The rights of citizens to participate in the exercise of justice in the form of national jurymen existed.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u106	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u107	It has existed to this day. Therefore, I believe that acceptance, the requirement to approve these amendments and not vote them violate the Constitution in turn. Thank you, Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u108	You tell the truth, but the session room is defined. I'm voting on the 13th amendment. Please vote. [[11:21:20]] For-55 The first reading is left. 14 amendments, Vlasenko microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u109	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. But I would like to ask, before you give the floor to the representatives, the authors of the amendments that are being considered, I would like to hear the opinion of the committee and the motives from which the committee was guided by what they initially supported and then I would like to hear the motives from which it is proposed to reject these amendments. Once again, the amendments I have made are intended to preserve the possibility of citizens participating in the administration of justice in the way envisaged by the Constitution, the Constitution of Ukraine. Unfortunately, once again, the committee supported these amendments, which was logical, wise, and constitutional. Sadly, something changed in the hall. Mikhail Vasilovich's position is a little different from that. But I ask the committee's opinion on this question to explain why the committee supported it, and now Mr. Oilynick says it isn't.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u110	First of all,
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u111	Sergei Volodymyrovich. Excuse me, Vladimir Mikolaiovich. There are no claims to the committee and to the reporter. He will report what the committee has decided. And you see in the table that the committee supports. And the reporter does not deny that this amendment remains. But according to the regulations, each of us has the right to comment on an amendment. If there is an observation, it is determined. I repeat, it's not a committee, we're making a decision with you. That's why there's no claim on the committee. Please, I'm putting 14 amendments to the vote for confirmation. I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:23:18]] For-57 15 amendments to the approval shall be made to the vote. [[11:23:39]] For-32 Not counted. 16th Amendment, Vlasenko. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u112	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. I see the mood of the hall, I see the mood of the Party of Regions, who is willing to sell this decision under any circumstances, I understand why it is necessary. This is necessary in order not to give God, the citizens of Ukraine have no opportunity to make those judgments that we are about to make with these triads of judges, so-called professional judges, who, unfortunately, are now ready to perform any demands of active authority. I do not see the need to continue to support my adjustments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u113	I see. 16th vote. [[11:24:37]] For-26 Not supported. 17th vote. [[11:24:56]] For-12. Not supported. The 18th Vlasenka is voting for support. [[11:25:16]] For-35 Dear colleagues, perhaps we can do this. Whether we vote individually or we act in such a way that the amendments taken into consideration to leave the national jury are voted on once for all. Oh, no? Okay. 19 amendments to the vote. [[11:25:55]] For-37 Not supported. 20th vote. [[11:26:12]] For-30 Not supported. 21st vote. [[11:26:30.]] For-33 Not supported. 22nd vote. [[11:26:48]] For-35 Not supported. 23rd. [[11:27:04]] For-32 Not supported. 24th. [[11:27:21]] For-33 Not supported. 25th. Vote. [[11:27:38]] For-28 Not supported. 26th vote. [[11:27:58]] For-28 27th. [[11:28:17]] For-29 Not supported. 28th. Take off the vote, please. Moses is an amendment. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u114	Vladimir Moses, Party for Ukraine! Dear Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues, and especially respected voters! According to these amendments, you probably didn't get the essence of this bill by numbering. In the first reading, the authors suggested, unlike the law in force, that the people be deprived of their participation in the exercise of justice. This has always been the case in our country, and in the days of the Communist jury. So today it is offered without them. But it's not exactly scary, Adam Ivanovich. Next comes the law on the destruction of the Supreme Court of Ukraine. Thus, 363 amendments made by the deputies are not considered by the committee. So we go to practice, not for free, but for money, but without results, and we're in the hall, and the committees, and the experts. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u115	Thank you. Dear colleagues. [[B in m in s a l in]] Now, Mikhail Vasilovich, listen to me. I don't see a fundamental difference here, that's the first. And secondly, we have recently adopted in such an order that the law takes effect from the day of its publication. You are proposing to leave: from the day of your publication. One day nothing will change, but it is, believe me, a more legal standard: the day after the day of publication. Because on the day of publication one saw that the law was in force, and the other did not see that the law was in force. And there could be colossals. I suggest, Mikhail Vasilovich, don't insist, one day doesn't change anything. So yes, yes, we've taken into account, because we've been doing this lately, and we're taking it. [[B in m in s a l in]] I think it'll be better. Yeah, yeah, I mean, I was. 29th. The 28 remain, they don't insist, that is, in the paper proposed by a colleague of Moses. The 29th amendment is a vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:30:53]] For the 17th. Not supported. Thus, taking into account the results of the vote, I am voting on the proposal for a profile committee to adopt in the second reading and in the whole Act amending the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine. [[on the participation of the national jury]] [[Registration number 8308]] Please vote. [[11:31:37]] For 239. The law is passed. The factions. There's no such thing, unfortunately. Region Party 182, BUT did not vote, People's Ukraine. "Our Ukraine," sorry -- 5, the communists -- didn't vote, "Reforms" -- 20, the People's Party -- 20, non-faction -- 12. Dear colleagues! We are currently considering a draft Law amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts on the organization of the functions of state electricity authorities. [[Registration number 8152]] But right now, we're going to have to have a table coming up, and then we're going to have to look at it. The draft Law on Liability for Damage Caused by Product Deficit is being considered. [[Registration number 7408]] The profile committee has made a suggestion that they do not have a decision to move 50 by 50, but another part insists that the terms assigned to the review committee have passed. That is why I, my esteemed colleagues, make a proposal for the adoption, in the second reading of the Law on Liability for Damage caused by a Production Deficit, of the first reading, please vote. [[Registration number 7408]] [[11:33:32]] For 241 The law is passed. Draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts to improve the work of the Supreme Court of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, there is a suggestion that this bill be sent for re-reading. Please support this proposal, for re-reading, Mikhail Vasilovich, we vote. [[11:34:15]] For 291 The bill is being re-readed. But I'm asking, my fellow officers, from the profile committee to take into account, in fact, the nuances that are there, to listen to the opinion of the Supreme Court, and to the suggestions of the people's deputies. Let's work with the next plenary week to make a decision with you, because we need to make a decision about that. We made a wise decision with you, here's what happened. The draft Law on the list of documents of a permissive nature in the field of economic activity is being considered. [[Registration number 3224]] [[resecond reading]] A member of the Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship, Valérie Grigorovitch Kranyj, reports. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u116	Honourable Adam Ivanovich, honourable colleagues, the draft Law on the List of Allowances in Economic Activities has been developed and worked out by members of the Committee for the practical implementation of the Ukrainian Law on Allowance in the Field of Economic Activities, which regulates the relations that arise between authorized authorities, administrators and operators in connection with the issuance of permits and the introduction of a legislative list of permits allowable documents that allow certain activities to be carried out and the identification of objects to which the documents of a permissive nature appear. Seven comments were submitted to the bill by the Ukrainian people’s deputies, of which six were taken into account. Representatives of central executive bodies, international and public organizations were involved in the drafting of the bill. The bill approves the list of documents of a permissive nature that give rise to the right to take certain measures to carry out economic activity and recognise the objects to which the documents of a permissive nature are issued. This list includes documents of a permissive nature that are required exclusively by Ukrainian laws and which are economically justified and appropriate. The project sets out the conditions under which it is prohibited to require operators to obtain documents of a permissive nature that are not required by law and that are not listed. In addition, with the aim of avoiding legal collegiates, the bill contains a rule that changes to the list of documents of a permissive nature are made at the same time as changes to the laws of Ukraine governing the relations associated with obtaining documents of a permissive nature. By taking into account the validity of the draft law, executive authorities, local authorities, officials, businesses, institutions, organizations authorized under the law to issue documents of a permissive nature will have no legal basis for requiring holders to obtain documents of a permissive nature. They are not required by law and are not included in the list approved by the bill. The adoption of the bill will help to improve the system of relations between the State and business by allowing authorities and operators in part of the issuance of documents of a permissive nature. A positive result of the adoption of the law will be the determination of the total number of documents of a permissive nature, a reduction in the time spent on receiving information from the owners. Reduce the number of documents of a permissive nature or cancel documents of a permissive nature. Warning of the abuse and cessation of corruption by officials of the state, allowing for more favourable conditions for the further development of businesses in Ukraine. The committee requests support for the adoption of the bill as a whole as a law.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u117	Yes, thank you, Valery Grigorovich. Yes, we have all the amendments, except for one amendment by three colleagues of Carmazin, taken into account. And, at the same time, I stress that the proposal that this law takes effect on January 1, 2012. No one insists on voting on those or other amendments? None. Then I put to the vote a proposal for adoption in the second reading and in the entire Law on the List of Permitted Documents in the Field of Economic Activity. [[Registration number 3224]] Please vote. [[11:39:20]] For 260 The law is passed. Here's the question: the draft Ukrainian Air Code. [[Registration number 7144]] Head of the Committee on Transport and Communications, Shiyanov Boris Anatoliyovich Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u118	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies, honored ones! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Transport and Communications is proposed to review the second reading procedure with a comparative table to the draft Ukrainian Air Code. [[Registration number 7144]] [[of 20.09.2010]] The author is the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The bill has been introduced with the aim of harmonising the legislative field that regulates the activities of Ukrainian civil aviation with the standards of the International Civil Aviation Organization, the United Aviation Authorities of Europe, the European Civil Aviation Conference, the European Aeronautics Safety Organization, and others. As well as changes to Ukrainian legislation that took place since the introduction of the 1993 Ukrainian Air Code. In total, 53 comments and suggestions from the national deputies of Voropeyeva, Makeenka, Zeynalova, Sinica, Lemze were made to the comparative table for the review procedure. I'm going to be very tight on some of the amendments. The bill is supplemented by a new section entitled "Vehicle Rights in the event of refusal of carriage, cancellation or prolonged delay of flights". [[comments by the national MP, Voropeyeva]] The legal authority’s proposal to exclude part three of article 81 has been taken into account. After discussing the comparative table of Bill 7144 for re-reading at the committee meeting, a proposal was received by National Deputy Hari Vasil Georgievovich to amend part one of the first article 53, replacing the word “United Federation of Aviation Professionals of Ukraine” with “professions of civil aviation personnel of Ukraine”, a justification was given. Please support this proposal. Now, on the Supreme Council Committees' conclusions on the bill. I remind you that the Committee on Rules, Deputy Ethics and Security of the Supreme Council of Ukraine believes that the bill has been tabled by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine in accordance with the requirements of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In the conclusion of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council on 05.10.2010, it is noted that the first reading of the draft bill can be based on the comments and suggestions made. The conclusion of the General Legal Office of May 16, 2011, noted that the bill could be adopted in a second reading, subject to the rule of law. As a result of the discussion, the Transport and Communications Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of the draft Air Code of 20.09.2010 on second reading and in general. [[Registration number 7144]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u119	Yes, thank you. I'm going after the repairs. 1st, Zanelov. Don't insist. Zeynal 6th, 7th. Don't insist. Voropeyev, 11th. It's counted, it's accounted for in part. Don't insist. Now, I'm coming right up to her. The 25th Amendment of Carmazin is included. There's a proposal for confirmation. I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:43:29]] For -6 Not confirmed, that is, the first reading is left. Yes, Maquienko, 39th partially counted. Don't insist. Yes, dear colleagues, not including Zeynalov, 47th. Don't insist. Yeah, that's it. There are no other questions. So I'm voting on a proposal for a profile committee to adopt in a second reading in the entire Ukrainian Air Code. [[Registration number 7144]] Please vote. [[11:44:33]] For 299 Dear colleagues! There's an air code. We've got more planes to buy. We are considering 7331 of the draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislation on targeted bonds. The transfer committee's letter will be ready for tomorrow. No objections? Then tomorrow, 7331, the table will be ready today. Please hand it over and we'll look at it tomorrow. Friday. The issue is being addressed, the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine, reports the Head of the Committee on Finance, Banking, Tax and Customs Policy, Vitaly Homutinnik. [[on the supervision of a consolidated basis]] [[Registration number 7399]] Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u120	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! The bill was prepared for second reading by a committee with representatives of the National Bank of Ukraine, the State Commission for the Regulation of Financial Services Markets, the State Commission for Securities and Stock Markets, Banking Associations and the World Bank. For example, the introduction of this type of supervision on a consolidated basis in European countries is also provided for by the 1983 European Union Directive on the supervision of credit institutions on a consolidated basis. Thus, supervision on a consolidated basis has been exercised by regulators of European financial services markets for more than 25 years. The second reading came with proposals from the National Bank, 55 proposals, including 52.3 rejected. People's deputies. Arjewitin Stanislav Mikhajlovich is 22 proposals, including 14 and other national deputies. In general, the bill is agreed upon and accepted by the committee. So the committee's decision is to take it in general. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u121	Yes, thank you. We're looking at the amendments. Yes, Amendment 14 and 15, Carmazin does not insist. National Bank of 20th and 22nd. Don't insist. 23rd, Arjevitin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u122	I suggested that, for the purpose of forming a consolidated report, except that insurance companies would not be included in this report, I also suggested that there should be no support companies involved. The committee didn't support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u123	The position of the committee is reflected in the rejection of this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u124	Yes, with 23 amendments, let's put it to a vote. I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:48:29]] For -6 Not supported. Yeah, 23rd. Arjovitin 24th, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u125	My proposal was in the 24th Amendment on when the total amount is going to go or the indirect participation of the banking group is determined not to take into account the joint investment institutions that are part of the banking group as if they go beyond that concept and artificially increase the amount of such indirect participation.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u126	24th vote. I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:49:27]] For -6 Not supported. 12th, Arjevitin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u127	The 25th amendment was to ensure that the National Bank did not spread when the banking group included an insurance company so that it did not extend the scope and control of all operations. And my suggestion was to focus on the National Bank only when there is an insurance company in the banking group, if credit risks are created and generated, so that there is not so much supervision of insurance companies, but only where there are transactions that involve credit risk.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u128	It's on the 25th vote. I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:50:33]] For-13. Not supported. 28th, Arjovitin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u129	Actually, 28th, I don't know why it's written, it's rejected, because in the first edition, we took the operations under control, and it was ten percent of the statutory capital. I suggested we narrow it down to 20 percent. In fact, in its second edition, the National Bank agreed with my concept of narrowing down and replaced 10 percent of statutory capital with a standard, 5 percent of the consolidated statutory capital of the entire group, i.e. actually narrowed down the number of operations. So I realize that my amendment is taken into account by the net, if that's the case.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u130	Thank you. Your next 31 is an amendment. Arjevitina’s microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u131	In this amendment, I also suggested adding that when a banking group includes support companies, I think that's not the main activity, and that's why we don't include them.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u132	31st vote. I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:52:04]] For -8 Not supported. 55th Arjun. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u133	I agree with the 55th amendment, because my editorial was: "The financial-holding company whose exclusive activity is." The National Bank proposed the word "the main activity of which is," so I agree and I don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u134	Thank you. 65th National Bank. Don't you insist? No, it's not. 67th, Arjevitin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u135	This is a similar amendment to my removal of companies that provide auxiliary services as non-core. I don't insist either.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u136	I see. Thank you. Yes, the rest of the amendments are taken into account or partially counted. I am voting on the proposal for a profile committee to adopt in a second reading and in general the Act amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[on the supervision of a consolidated basis]] [[Registration number 7399]] Please vote. [[11:53:25]] For 258. The law is passed. Draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning regulation of financial services markets. [[Registration number 7511]] The committee requests a transfer to the next plenary week. Please support this proposal, we are voting for a transfer to the next plenary week. [[11:54:02]] For 255 Decision taken. But that's the last time we're gonna take it. Bill 6620: Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislation on the improvement of permit procedures. 6220, I'm sorry. Deputy Head of the Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship, Laupin Kseniya Mikhailnovna Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u137	Thank you, Your Honor. This bill organizes two permits: permission to heal -- national medicine and permission to use, use, use of machines, machinery and equipment for increased danger -- is consistent with the Law on the Principles of the Permission System. Part, the vast majority of the comments were taken into account. Several comments were rejected. The committee recommends approval as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u138	Dear colleagues, repairs. Carmazine doesn't insist. First, third, fourth, fifth. Don't insist. The rest, I see, is all. Another, 22nd, Carmazine, doesn't count. Everything else is accounted for. I am voting on the proposal of a profile committee: to adopt, in a second reading and in general, the Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the improvement of permit procedures. Please vote. [[11:55:54]] For 237 Thank you. The law is passed. And there came, honourable colleagues, a comparative table to Bill 8152: amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts on the organization of the functions of state-owned authorities in electricity. [[second reading]] He reports to the deputy head of the Committee on Fuel Energy and Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security, Romanyuk Mikopovich. Please continue the session to address this issue. Please, Mikola Prokopovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u139	Honourable Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national MPs, the committee handled the proposals and amendments that came from the subjects of the legislative initiative — five national deputies of Ukraine — to the government bill adopted at first reading 21.04. In 2011 In total, 87 proposals and amendments were made, 38 of which were rejected, 37 were taken into account, 3 were amended — in fact, all the amendments ******– in another edition, and in part two were amended. These amendments relate to both editorial improvements in the text of the bill and its systemic provisions, such as the introduction of the status of the State Energy Supervisory Authority to the provisions of the Ukrainian Law on Basic Principles for State Oversight in the Field of Economic Activity in connection with the administrative reform of the legislative study of auxiliary measures, the continuous functioning of the unified energy system. I suggest you look at the table. All grounds for deviation are given in the table. If the authors of the amendments insist on taking them into account, I suggest that they consider specific amendment proposals. As a result of the discussion, I would like to support the proposal made by the committee on the adoption of the bill in the second reading and in general. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u140	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I am addressing two national deputies, because their only amendments are not taken into account, they are the amendments of colleague Carmazin, he does not insist, and the amendments of colleague Sphenov. Are you insisting? Nor does he insist. The rest of the amendments are included. No one insists on confirming whether they deny it or not.? None. Then I put a motion to the vote. proposal for a profile committee, a profile committee: to adopt, on second reading and as a whole, the Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine to organise the functions of state electricity authorities. Please vote. [[11:59:02]] For 252 Thank you, copy. And, dear fellows, let's take a quick look. You and I passed Bill 8425 on the financial recovery of the state-owned enterprise "The Union of Southern Machinery Plant O.M. Makarov". A special committee prepared for the second reading of the bill, and it is ready. Please, 8425 reports Chechtov Mikhailo Vasilovich. Please. And there'll be a break. There are two amendments that are included in the bill, honourable colleagues, so I ask.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u141	Dear colleagues, we have considered this bill with a consolidated vote. The Committee supported it and asked the session room not only to support the bill, but the flagman of our industry, "Yushmash". Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u142	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we're not in violation. 11.59. We'll vote in just one minute. I am voting on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the Bill 8425, on the financial recovery of the state-owned enterprise, "Production Union of the Southern Macarov Engineering Plant". It's a second reading, it's understandable. Please vote. [[12:00:35]] For 281 Vote, 281. I now put to the vote: to adopt the Law on Financial Recovery of the State Enterprise "Production Union of the Southern Macarov Machinery Plant". [[Registration number 8425]] Please vote. [[12:01:04]] For 296 Thank you, the law is passed. A break of up to 12 hours is announced for 31 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u143	He is invited to the rostrum of Igor Leonovich Samsin, head of the High Qualification Commission of Judges. Please, Igor Leonovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u144	Thank you. The President-in-Office, the Honourable National Deputies, in accordance with part three of article 76 of the Ukrainian Law on the Judiciary and the Status of Judges, the Supreme Qualifications Commission of the Judges of Ukraine carried out a review of compliance with the requirements of article 127 of the Constitution of Ukraine, articles 53 and 64 of that Act, as well as of the referrals of citizens, public organisations, enterprises, institutions, organizations of all forms of property, public authorities and local self-government bodies regarding the activities of candidates for the posts of judges who came to the Ukrainian Supreme Qualificational Commission at the time of the Commission's consideration of the issue of recommending them to serve as judges on an open-ended basis. In accordance with article 85, paragraph 27, of the first article of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 78 of the Law on the Judiciary and the Status of Judges, the submission of the Supreme Qualifications Commission of judges of Ukraine and its decisions on recommending candidates for the appointment of judges on an indefinite basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u145	Please. Order 7528. There were no objections to the proposed candidates. I'll put it to a vote. You haven't imagined it yet? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u146	To elect judges previously elected without delay in the positions of judges: The Court of Appeal of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Rozko Marina Volodymyrna; The Court of Appeal of the Poltava District of Gerasimenko Victoria Mikolaynowna; Nizelkovsky Lillian Valentinovna; The Court of Appeal of the District of Bondarenko, Nadia Volodymyrna; Donetsk’s Court of Appeal Richter Constantine Viktorovich. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u147	No comments were made on these candidates. I can't see. I'm voting on the decision to elect judges. [[Registration number 8528]] Please vote. [[12:32:55]] For 239. I'll take the order. Order 8528-1, please. Igor Leonovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u148	Choose judges on an untimely basis: Donetsk Court of Appeal, Azarov Zinaid Petrovna, Boyko Irina Anatolyevna; Kirov District Court of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Chulu Alexander Stepanović; Rozisten District Court of Volin County, Silic Ivan Ivanovich; The Nicolel Regional Court of the Dnipropetrov region, Baggro's Angelique Hennadian; The Shakhtar District Court of the Donetsk Region of Virchenko, Olen Mikolayevna; The Yellow District Court of Luhansk, Lozko Julius Petrovna; The Kyiv District Court of Poltava, Kulisch Yuri Viktorovich; Lenin District Court of Poltava, Novak Yuri Dmitrovich; The Silicon District Court of Ternopil district, Mochal Valentine Mikolayevna; The Luhansk Administrative Court, Matthew Victoria Victoria; The District Administrative Court of Sevastopol, Dudkino Tetjana Mikolayevna; Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u149	No comments were received. I'm voting on the Supreme Council's ruling on the election of judges. [[Registration number 8528-1]] Please vote. [[12:32:59]] 8528-1 Draft Decision on the Election of Judges [[12:34:39]] For 247 I'll take the order. And the last decision. [[Registration number 8528-2]] Please, Igor Leonovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u150	To elect judges previously elected on an indefinite basis as judges of Ukraine's Supreme Court for civil and criminal matters: Amelina Vijatoslava Ivanovich, Brittchuk Vladimir Vasilovich, High Valentina Stepanovna, Grimic Maja Kostinovna, Gulka Boris Ivanovich, Dibu Vasil Guriovich, Croping Alexander Vasilovich, Zubara Valentina Vasilovich, Ivanenko Yulia Hennadiovna, Kadjetov Olen Olenu Anatoliyevna, Korotun Vadim Mihajlovich, Kravchenko Stanislav Ivanovich, Kulbab Vasilimirovich, Malerenka Artema Vasilievich, Matvieu Olen Anatoliyevna, Nagornyak Vladimir Anatolievich, Ivanobiliyov, Vácheslav Volodimirovich, Ostapich Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u151	Yeah, no comments on the candidates? I'm putting to the vote a draft Supreme Council decree on the election of judges. [[Registration number 8528-2]] Please vote. [[12:36:40]] For 266 Thank you. I'll take the order.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u152	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u153	I think we've already filled out the Supreme Special Court or is there any left? Dear colleagues, let's welcome the judges we've chosen or reassigned to other positions, and wish them success in their future work. [[Applause]] Thank you. We are discussing: a re-examination with proposals by the President of Ukraine, the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws on State Support for Rural Development, with proposals by the President of Ukraine dated 28.04.2011. [[Registration number 8324]] Miroshenko Yuri Romanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u154	Dear voters, dear colleagues! Yuri Miroshnichenko, representative of the President of Ukraine at the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Honorary colleagues, the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian Laws on State Support for Rural Development, amending Ukraine's laws on Grain and Market in Ukraine, on State Support for Agriculture of Ukraine, on Foreign Economic Activities. The president of Ukraine rejected the prescribed law for such reasons. The law proposes the establishment of an order whereby the export licensing or import of grain and its processing products, including through quotas, quantities or other restrictions, makes the distribution of such quotas possible through auctions. However, this approach does not meet Ukraine’s international obligations under the WTO’s multilateral trade agreements, nor does it violate Ukraine’s obligations as enshrined in the report of the working group, which is an integral part of the Protocol on Ukraine’s Entry into the World Trade Organization, ratified by the Ukrainian Act of 10 April 2008 under article 25-6 of the Ukrainian Constitution, which is part of national legislation, since the sale of quotas is considered an additional tax on exports or imports of grain and its products. According to article 18 of the Constitution of Ukraine, Ukraine's foreign policy activities are aimed at ensuring its national interests by promoting mutual cooperation with members of international society in accordance with the principles and norms of international law. One of these popular principles is the principle of conscientious compliance with international obligations. The provisions of the law then conflict with articles 18 of the Constitution of Ukraine. In addition, the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to certain Ukrainian Laws on State Support for Rural Development provides that the costs that will come from the sale of grain quotas at auctions and processing products will be accumulated in a separate special state budget account. This does not correspond to part two of article 95 of the Constitution of Ukraine, which defines exclusively the State Budget Act of Ukraine for any expenditure incurred by the State on the general public needs. The size and purpose of these funds are also not in line with the Ukrainian Budget Code. According to the head of State, the introduction of transparent and effective administrative procedures for State export regulation or import of grain and its products is a condition for guaranteeing the food security of the State, for increasing the export potential of the Ukrainian grain market, for ensuring its functioning on the basis of a combination of free competition and public regulation with a view to balancing the interests of the owners and the state. In doing so, these procedures should be applied exclusively on a non-discriminatory basis and in line with Ukraine’s international obligations to remove non-tariff barriers to external trade. Including the total elimination of quantitative restrictions. Dear colleagues! In summing up my statement, I want to say that the President of Ukraine was forced to veto this law because he first violates the Constitution. The President of Ukraine, as a guarantor of the Constitution, rights and freedoms, is obliged to exercise the veto in such cases. Please support the position of the President of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u155	Thank you. If you have any questions, please sign up. Jerbrowsky wants to ask. Yes, please, Anatoly Matvienko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u156	The Ukrainian Republican Party of Sobor, the “Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense” block. Mr. Yuri, please tell me, the President really, I support the veto because it's non-marketable and unconstitutional steps. But what works today, when there are quotas and when there are 30 to 35 dollars for each tonne of grain for export, is not known in which pocket, it is also abnormal. Obviously I'd like you, whether you own this information or you don't own it, to tell the President that besides the veto, because these are non-marketable things, you have to sort out the corruption that unfortunately works today, and with the quota that we have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u157	Thank you, Anatoly Sergiyovich. The President, that's why I said I vetoed it as a forced step, because he understands how important it is to settle. But in the way that Ukraine’s international obligations, which are enshrined in the Constitution, are foreseen, but the issue is regulated. In a market way, through market mechanisms, through mechanisms to stimulate and motivate market subjects, Ukraine’s interest in food security has been guaranteed, and, at the same time, Ukraine as one of the world’s largest grain exporters has developed this potential by filling our treasury with export revenues. I take your advice, and I think we'll work with you, and the President will. To participate in solving this issue, including in a legislative way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u158	Arjovitin, please. I'll have you know what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u159	Paul Zebravsky, "Ukrainian Platform", NH-NS faction. Mr. Jury, the N.U.S. faction has opposed this bill and I think the President has listened to us. But tell me, To whom do you treat the wise or the beautiful? Just before that, an hour ago, you passed the law, just like this one, for the introduction of a duty on grain exports. Now you're going to vote in favour of the President, who out of the same motive vetoed the law and just before that you're voting. You didn't know that the President, with these motives, vetoes the same law? Why do you vote for these bills? That's ridiculous. What you're going to do is you're going to agree with yourself in faction with the President in order not to do what you do with one hand and the other with another.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u160	Thank you, Mr. Paul, for your question and your concern. The President will really listen to the right proposals of individual deputies and factions, whether they are overpowered or they make up the majority, or whether there are opposition factions, because he is the President of the whole country and is faithfully fulfilling his duties. As far as legislative activity and lawmaking are concerned, this is a matter for Parliament. And I think you and I, working on the committees, have to study these issues more closely so that we don't encounter the veto. As for the law that you have commented on, I think it would be inappropriate for me, as a representative of the President from this rostrum, to criticize the deputies in this particular position. The only thing I can say is that your proposals by the President will be heard in the same way as those of all other deputies and factions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u161	Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u162	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. The venerable Adam Ivanovich, the venerable Yuri Romanovich, is quite clear that if Ukraine makes a commitment, it is necessary to do so. Otherwise, we don't have to make these commitments, because it basically discredits our negotiating groups, and our negotiating partners obviously don't have a sense of predictability on the part of the Ukrainian side. But I have a question about this plan. Of course, there may be a dispute over whether or not the Constitution is applicable, but the President here makes it quite clear in his statement that this bill, which we have adopted, directly contradicts article 95 of the Constitution, whereby exclusively the State Budget Act of Ukraine imposes any expenditure on the general public, the size and purpose of these expenses. I have a question: "When this law was passed, you, as a representative of the President, could have pushed us.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u163	Thank you, Mr. Oleg, for asking. Of course, as a representative of the President, I was unable to influence the course of the legislative process in any other way as soon as it was provided for by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, by amending or participating in the committees that invite me as a representative of the President. As far as my role as a national deputy is concerned, here is your point, and I accept it. Thank you. What's more, I'm a lawyer and a constitutionalist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u164	Yeah, well, make sure everything's all right. Carpuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u165	Yuri Romanovich! Vladimir Karpuk, "Our Ukraine". Here's a question to you as to the President's representative in the Supreme Council. Because this is not the first law promised by the President. And this is certainly evidence of a lack of systemivity at the level of the President's Administration, a parliamentary majority, when the government takes the swing of the hand behind the reduced programme. After all, it was immediately evident that there were so many questions before this bill. Is this really, like, let's say, a disagreement or a non-professional team, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u166	Thank you. Thank you for asking. Maybe someone would say it's provocative, but I'll say it's very right and it gives me the opportunity to emphasize that the social and state institutions that the Ukrainian Parliament is the only legislative body as well as the Cabinet of Ministers or the Ukrainian President's Institute are independent in their actions. This is the principle of the distribution of power. And that's why the President of Ukraine always, in his position on a bill or a bill, doesn't use the mechanisms of pressure on parliament and doesn't prevent the Cabinet of Ministers from shaping economic policies. At the same time, as the guarantor of the Constitution, he has a duty in those cases where there is, in the first place, a violation of the Constitution, and here the opposition is extremely important, for which the President is grateful to you as the national deputy, your faction, all the opposition factions, when they cite arguments that have unfortunately not been heard, or at the preparatory stage.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u167	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u168	either at the preparatory stage or at the stage of adoption of this decision, he shall apply the veto. So I think this situation needs to be preserved and proud that the Ukrainian Parliament, Ukrainian democracy, has strong principles that follow everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u169	Thank you. The committee is headed by the Committee on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations, Kaletnik Grigory Mikolayovich. Please. Have a seat. Yuri Romanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u170	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear Yuri Romanovich! Colleagues! The bill that we have just considered with the proposals of the President of Ukraine has just been considered by the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on agrarian politics and land relations. And I want everyone to know what's next. Before the President's veto on this bill, which we have just considered, there is a particular feature. And that's what's going to happen next. First. Last year, given the situation in the world and world markets, not only Ukraine but also other nations imposed restrictions on the movement of grain because it was a significant deficit. And so the restrictions that have been resolved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, namely the introduction of quotas, have not been a violation, and other states, members of the World Trade Organization, use such a tool. And Ukraine's claims were mostly from the world's compatriots and exporters, not as much about quotas as the order of their distribution. And so in January of this year, when the Cabinet of Ministers decreed another quota, and 2 million tons of corn, half a million tons of wheat, as a tool for the allocation of quotas, so that it wasn't handmade and corrupt enough, it was a bill that we're discussing with you now -- it's a distribution of quotas by way of auctioning them. And since the Cabinet of Ministers has now decided to abolish quotas, the second tranche of quotas, and has agreed in the relevant negotiation processes that Ukraine, as a member of the World Trade Organization, is still introducing an export duty tool, which is also a very temporary tool, so the need to sell quotas at auction has clearly fallen away. Thus, the committee unanimously voted in favour of the President's proposals to repeal the bill. And the next, the next thing I want to tell you is What's in one bill and another: and in the one that the colleagues just asked about, according to what we've adopted today in the Supreme Council, they're unfortunately having some negative impact on the price formation of the sale of grain produced by producers in Ukraine. [[on export export duties]] And in some ways, the producers are going to get hurt. That's why the bill that we're now supporting the President's veto is going to vote and we're going to repeal this bill; and in the draft law that we voted for, there was a point where we asked for the costs that would come from selling allowances at auction, or the costs that would come through the withdrawal of export duties, to compensate the producers for their costs of producing the same grain. [[about export duties]] Regrettably, this second norm was not passed in that bill and was not passed in a bill on export duties. I think we'll go back a little bit later, and while the committee is asking to support and vote in favour of the President's proposals for repealing the bill on the auction quota for grain. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u171	Thank you. Are they not coming, are they going to be asking questions, or are we clear? All right, have a seat, please. Dear colleagues! We've heard thorough reports from both the President's representative and the profile committee. I see that we all tend to be friendly about supporting the President and rejecting the Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian Laws. [[on State support for agricultural development]] [[Registration number 8324]] Please vote. [[12:56:18]] For 292 Decision taken. The law is rejected. The President's proposal is supported. We are discussing the recommendation of parliamentary hearings on the status and prospects of economic relations with the EU and the Customs Union. [[Free Trade Zone]] [[Registration number 8532]] Taras Blackwall, please, from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u172	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues, national deputies of Ukraine! In the session hall last week, there were very busy and in our view the necessary parliamentary hearings for Ukraine on certain conditions of choosing our vector of development, planning our activities in the economic, political, international, strategic sphere. This is a question of Ukraine's involvement in integration processes through a free trade zone with the European Union. And the second question is about our cooperation and our forms of participation in the customs union. At the hearings, in our view, there was a very clear position and it was reflected in the draft resolution. It was made very clear by the representatives of all, in fact, the main political forces, the representatives of the expert society, by the majority, speaking out, well, at least all those speakers who expressed the official position of the Cabinet of Ministers. There is no alternative to European choice – European integration. But the second point, which was highlighted, is not to be ignored in the course of Euro-Integration by our mandatory needs, by increasing economic contacts with SND member countries, including the customs union member countries. We've been working on all the suggestions on the committee, and we've invited an expert group who also participated in the committee meeting, invited representatives of the Cabinet of Ministers, listened to detailed proposals from the Ministry of Economics and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. And now I can say that they were fully accounted for. They discussed all the details that might be in the formulations so that they would not create even hypothetically possible obstacles to our issue of Euro-integration and that they could not be used anywhere, even if very bad will, against improving our relations with the countries members of the Customs Union and the member countries of the SND. I think this position is completely balanced, it's supported by the Cabinet of Ministers, and I want to believe that we are voting today in favour of these resolutions, and we will give additional tools to our government in the course of the negotiations. Our committee received only one written proposal from our colleague Tariel Vasadze to specify in the resolution the maximum issues of auto-producers, the provision of cars, and the introduction of quotas. But from the Cabinet of Ministers there was a proposal supported by a committee on this issue, so that we wouldn't put into the text of the resolution such details that would somehow bind the hands of the Cabinet of Ministers and, plus, that would set perhaps difficult moments for future negotiations. So we have a request to support this resolution. Once again, give additional tools to the Cabinet of Ministers in the negotiation process and then in the course of the implementation of the planned plans to maximize European integration, get into the immediate terms of the Free Trade Zone with the European Union, and not just lose, but intensify our activities on the eastern vector as part of our cooperation with the Customs Union and with the SND countries. The main warnings that we have clearly stressed in this Resolution are that any activity in both directions should be based entirely on the Ukrainian Constitution, on the Law on the Principles of Foreign and Internal Policy of Ukraine, which was recently adopted, and on the principles of the World Trade Organization, which for Ukraine is actually our economic Constitution. So once again, I repeat, a request from our committee to support this resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u173	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Taras Vjačeslavovich, I have a question about how you personally view and the committee: Legal administration is proposing and developing it. Do you think it's fully worked?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u174	First. I did not see any clear warnings about what to do. The other one. We've taken all the positions into account on the committee, we've taken very carefully into account the proposals from the Cabinet of Ministers. We don't think that pre-processing can actually add anything new. There's a big spectrum, this is a big document, this resolution, with a serious preamble, in which our position was set out, which formed in the debate, then was adopted by consensus by both the majority and the opposition. The same with Kabmin. It seems to me that some additional changes and refinements are just balancing the document. We haven't seen any warnings that say that something in this resolution needs to be changed, that something can hurt. We can't put too much detail into it, because it's actually direct, it's the direction of the Supreme Council, how the Cabinet of Ministers should operate. If we put a lot of detail in there, we can put the Cabinet of Ministers in a situation where, because of certain circumstances that will arise in the process under discussion, it will be between Scylla and Harribda, when there is a resolution of the Supreme Council that needs to be implemented and there is a negotiation process that needs to be done a little bit differently. So we decided to recommend this project. And we don't agree with the suggestion that it needs to be worked out.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u175	Thank you. Chaplain, you have a question or something.? Questions. Yes, then sign up for the questions, please. Yeah, five minutes, Caplienne.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u176	Dear Adam Ivanovich, thank you for your word. Dear Tarase Viacheslavovich, you know, the results of these hearings have certainly been a clear position that, in our view, the view of the MP group Reform for the Future is quite tolerant, which proves in principle and protects Ukraine's interests in this area. Of course, the problem is urgent, significant, and desirable to the majority of Ukrainians. However, there was this position throughout hearings: should we not form a parliamentary government commission to consider issues of Euro-integration? And this commission, in our view, has to be made. Should such changes be made to the approved results of parliamentary hearings? In my opinion, and in the view of the MP group Reform for the Future, that's a pretty good offer. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u177	Dear colleague, about this proposal. She was invited by Ukraine’s national deputy, Oksana Bilozer, at a committee meeting, and she was not supported by the committee. I'm reporting to the committee's exclusive position. If there is a position of chairman in the plenary session, he may put the matter to the vote for inclusion in the resolution. The position of the committee was almost unanimous in not mixing the executive and legislative authority on matters related to our international activity. I reported the position of the committee. Next, this is the position of the presiding officer as he sees fit.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u178	Hacko, please. Clearly, then Vyezevski will pass on to Knyazevitch, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u179	Dear Taras Viacheslavovich! First of all, I would like to thank the people's deputies who initiated the hearings themselves, the Yatzenyuk and the Martinique and the participants in the hearings and the committee, and personally to you for having been able to present to us now one way to show us what we can reach through the consensus of the session room if we put national interests ahead of everything. Although I wanted to ask you. Please tell me how today's vote can be influenced by the statement made by the President of the Russian Federation yesterday, in which he essentially refutes what you are writing in his statement that we will be, regardless of our Euro-integration aspirations, still try to develop the east and direction of our cooperation and so on. He made it clear that we need to be clear and not play, and not try to sit on one ass on two chairs, sorry. In view of these circumstances, as you think, is there any way that we should be as diplomatic and mild as we are right now, or is it still worth expressing our European position openly and no longer playing in some kind of diplomatic debate, and it will lead to life itself.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u180	Dear Mr. Ruslan, thank you for your appreciation. I was, by the way, much more skeptical about the very fact that the hearings were being held, and I was afraid that we could legitimize the very subject of the Customs Union, which simply cannot be implemented in the first place because we are members of the World Trade Organization. Therefore, the Customs Union simply cannot be considered; it is not a contrast to the free trade zone with the European Union; it is a contrast to the WTO. But thank God at the hearings, we've seen that there is a position of the Supreme Council, the Cabinet of Ministers, the President, who have chosen that choice, that is, not the non-alternative, that is, the totally unalternative direction towards the European Union. But to reject the moments of cooperation, I think that would be unnecessary. What about our eastern neighbors? In our draft rulings this was done in a very tolerant but clear way. Free trade zone with Russia -- we need it. Economic cooperation with countries that are members of the SND is certainly the case. And to write that we're not going to work with them, I think that's a negative. As for yesterday's statement by Medvedev. Well, there was Putin's statement before, as far as I'm concerned, harsh and unpleasant. It's politics. In Russia, presidential elections are approaching.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u181	Sas Sergey.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u182	Thank you. Please pass the word to Mikola Volodymyrovich Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u183	Please, Mikola Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u184	Taras Vejacheslavovich, I have a few words of general assessment, because I have the honour to conduct these parliamentary hearings, and I believe that the committee, in cooperation with the government and with the experts, has fully agreed with all the ideas and suggestions that have been made. And in order to clarify or, let's say, point Parliament towards what was going on during the parliamentary hearings, I wanted you to clarify or confirm my opinion. As far as I can remember, we discussed the recommendations offered by the government. And the basic things that the government has proposed have entered here, particularly the principle of the position that I support, which the government has put forward, is the position of the first Cabinet of Ministers in the negotiating process: to continue active work on creating a free trade zone between Ukraine and the EU, and to put in place and further implement a new agreement on the creation of a free trade zone within the SND, on the basis of the World Organisation's trade in the irresistible security of Ukraine's national interests, in the context of the priority of protecting national production and so on. This was also the norm in the government text. If you confirm, I think it's like a signal to all the factions that the committee would be looking for the right geopolitical and geoeconomic strategy, and that text allows us to vote for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u185	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u186	The wording that you just sounded was in two basic texts on which the entire document was developed. It was in the text proposed by the Cabinet of Ministers, and it was in the text proposed by the expert society and also by the initiators of hearings. So in this case, we can talk about the total matching of positions. Once again, the committee worked very actively to reconcile all the details. We understand very well how much a bad word in an international relationship can cause great distress. And we're here precisely, pretensely measuring our relationship both in the East and in the West. And so cooperation and discussion with government representatives, with the Ministry of Economics, with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs during the Committee's meeting lasted several hours, it wasn't a quick process of the entire document. All the moments that might have been questionable were removed. These words, which you say they have united, were presented in two basic proposals.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u187	Matthew Valentine.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u188	Thank you. In particular, the Recommendations note that in the course of the implementation of cooperation with the EU and the States of the Customs Union, the Ukrainian side should be guided solely by its national interests and ensure that conditions of economic cooperation allow for full advantage and minimize the risks of integration into the European Union and cooperation with the States of the Customs Union. While understanding the position that the conclusion of an association agreement, including a free trade zone, on the most favourable conditions for Ukraine, with the simultaneous activation of economic relations with the SND countries, is true, including the Customs Union, in accordance with the principles and conditions of the WTO. And we know very well with you what has led to Ukraine’s introduction to this organization.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u189	Dear colleague, in this case, your position, as I understand it, means that you've suggested some way of speaking out against the principles of the WTO. And this is a question that is confirmed by the entire legislative base of Ukraine, which today is de facto, is essentially the basis of our economic policy, trade and economic policy. So in this case, our committee was building its position on what was built in Ukrainian legislation. As far as I know, your faction on Parliamentary hearings distributed their proposals through the registration sector. During the hearings, they generally did not find support, including from the Cabinet of Ministers. We presented a resolution in which we presented a general position that brought together the absolute majority of the speakers in the hall and the people representing the government. But we take all your suggestions into account. And I think where some principles conflict with the interests of Ukraine, of course, considering that we always compromise when we give in, and we have to give in to someone else, but in this case the basic interests of Ukraine are, I agree with you absolutely.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u190	Thank you. Have a seat, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u191	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u192	Yes, Your Honor, I'll put it to a vote. At the show? Well, let's take one minute from the factions, sign up. Parliamentary hearings were to be held. Yes, please, Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u193	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues, I believe that this ruling reflects the main formula for our success, the essence of which is that there is no reasonable alternative to Euro-integration. But in order to minimize the financial, economic and temporary costs of this journey, we must make maximum use of the potential of our normal good-neighbourly trade, financial, political, humanitarian, cultural relations with our main strategic partner and eternal neighbour, Russia. In my opinion, too, and in our view, a fairly balanced text and I think we will not be wrong if we vote, yes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u194	Sergei Pavlovenko, People’s Party. Zarubinski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u195	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Dear Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues, to the content of, in fact, recommendations, questions not so many, perhaps not at all. I can agree that there is a balanced and solid content, but I, when we voted in favour of these parliamentary hearings, and now, I stress that the name is conjunctural. The name is wrong of these parliamentary hearings, because the different weight categories of the Customs Union and the free trade area are already very diverse. If this was about cooperation with the Customs Union, separate parliamentary hearings on customs procedures with these countries would have to be held. What is a free trade zone? It's four freedoms, it's the movement of four things: money, people, finance and services. So, I'm sorry, but I don't think the names of parliamentary hearings should be conjunctural, initiated by their initiators. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u196	Irina Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u197	Dear colleagues, it is a pity that very few national deputies were represented at these parliamentary hearings. Because among the experts who spoke there were extremely interesting presentations about the perspectives and risks that both the Customs Union and the Free Trade Zone were taking for Ukraine. How many diplomats have to work here to protect the Ukrainian producer from joining Ukraine in the free trade zone. We need to support this decision because there is a great deal of work going on, it's been going on since 2008, started by the previous government. And this also needs to be supported by all of us and today's authorities, because the path to Euro integration is unalterable. And what's very important is that today's authorities are changing their rhetoric, after we see Russia blackmailing and pushing today's customs team. So here the opposition is ready to "set your shoulders" and say that we're going to protect Ukraine, that our path is only to Euro-integration, and here we are allies, and we need to support this determination. Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u198	Smoker, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u199	Deputies! The MP's Reforms for the Future. We're going to support this resolution, we think it's balanced enough, and we're going to define, today, the political line that we have today in the state. At the same time, we would like to point out that it is necessary, first, to explain more actively to Ukrainian citizens the advantages of being in one zone or another, and that this will give a mere average citizen of Ukraine. And that understanding is not yet available today. There may be more political speculation. And the second. It's an appeal to Parliament. We need to actively adapt our legislation to European standards. This is a variety of laws, especially those related to economic issues. But in general, we support what we have today.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u200	Yes, the discussion is over. Tomenko, please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u201	Dear colleagues! I also wanted to join those talks that spoke of the urgency and necessity of accepting this document. This urgency and necessity are, I think, related to two other circumstances that have been mentioned by accident or inadvertently, but they are very relevant. Historically, Russian politics, especially the days before the presidential election campaign and the presidential election rhetoric in Russia, did not apply to the economic situation in Russia, but rather to the attitude of Russian politicians toward Ukraine. And one prime minister recently expressed his views. Now another president expressed his views. So I think that Ukraine should ask the Russian presidential candidates to take over the fate of the Russian people. And the fate of the Ukrainian people, the Ukrainian state, we're going to worry about ourselves. And the second thesis is extremely important. It's after this document to ask officials, especially the second level, because unfortunately we've had it at parliamentary hearings, to make such, too harsh and radical statements that we're almost out of the Soviet Union. Apparently, that's not what the President thinks, and the Prime Minister doesn't. That's the kind of document we'd accept. And this second echelon of officials would still be asked to act in accordance with current legislation. And I hope, before the ruling that we vote for.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u202	Thank you. We'll make decisions. Dear colleagues, how do you see if we put the word here, who are we talking about? So I would like to say, "On the state and prospects of Ukraine's economic relations with the EU and the Customs Union." [[Free Trade Zone]] No objections? Ukraine, yes. The words insert "Ukraine's economic relations with the EU and the Customs Union" to make it clear that we're talking about our state, not the whole world. Then let's do it this way. I'm voting on draft regulation 8532 as a basis. [[13:19:39]] For 290 Supported. Then I propose: to support, as a whole, the amendment I have made, the state and prospects of Ukraine's economic relations with the EU and the Customs Union. [[Free Trade Zone]] Please vote. [[13:20:09]] For 289 Recommendations, ruling accepted. The factions, please. The Party of Regions – 172, BUT – 40, Our Ukraine – 30, the Communists – did not vote, the Reforms – 20, the People's Party – 20, the non-fractional – seven. A draft law on the approval of the President of Ukraine's decision to deploy a peacekeeping contingent to Ukraine in support of the United Nations Operation in Côte d'Ivoire is under consideration. [[Registration number 8499]] There is a suggestion: by a reduced procedure, consider the matter. Please make up your mind. [[13:20:58]] For 210 Offer supported. I invite you to report to defense minister Ježel Mikhail Bronislavovich. Prepare for the Kuzmuk Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u203	The President-in-Office, honourable national deputies, in accordance with the Ukrainian Act of 4 February 2011 No. 301 on the approval of the President of Ukraine's decision to deploy a peacekeeping contingent to Ukraine in support of the United Nations Operation in Côte d'Ivoire of 1 March 2011 the Air Force of the 56th United Nations Special Helicopter Mission in Liberia is carrying out peacekeeping tasks in this country. Joint international efforts, including the active involvement of Ukrainian helicopters in the United Nations Operation, have succeeded in halting the armed opposition of the hostiles and stabilising the situation in the country. The United Nations mission in Côte d’Ivoire is seen as an important factor in the peaceful settlement of stability in the country. That is why the United Nations Secretariat asked Ukraine to extend the air force’s term and to Côte d’Ivoire until September 30 of this year. Armed forces are now able to do this: armament and military equipment of the helicopter unit in power; the moral-psychological state of the individual warehouse is satisfactory, allowing them to carry out their tasks. All safety, organization, logistics, and technical issues related to the activities of the flight team in Côte d’Ivoire have been resolved and allow for the continuation of tasks. In addition, with the aim of increasing the level of social guarantees, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine issued Decision No.150 of 23 February 2011 increased by 100 percent of the monthly foreign currency monetary reward to peacekeepers for carrying out the tasks and territories of Côte d’Ivoire. That's what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u204	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u205	The United Nations in the Ukrainian aviation unit and taking into account the moral spirit of our individual composition, please approve the bill presented.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u206	Thank you, Michael Bronislavovich. Have a seat. Head of the National Security and Defence Committee, Alexander Ivanovich Kuzmuk
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u207	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! The National Security and Defence Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine discussed at its meeting on 18 May the draft law on approval of the decision of the President of Ukraine to deploy a peacekeeping contingent to Ukraine in support of the United Nations Operation in Côte d’Ivoire. The project was designed for the purpose of legislative drafting of Presidential Decree No. 578 of May 12 on the deployment of a peacekeeping contingent to Ukraine in support of the United Nations Organization in the Operation in Côte d'Ivoire. The bill is intended to extend the stay of the Ukrainian peacekeeping contingent in Côte d’Ivoire until September 30, this year. The financing of the costs associated with the project is made at the expense of the State budget of Ukraine, which is intended to maintain the Ukrainian aviation unit and continue to reimburse these expenses from the United Nations budget. I would like to point out to the Supreme Council that, thanks to the perseverance of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Cabinet of Ministers decree of 23.02 "Some issues of peacekeeping supply" has been increased by 100 percent every month. The adoption of this law is thought to have a positive effect on strengthening Ukraine’s international authority, strengthening our country’s position as a trusted UN partner. At that time, considering the complexity of the situation in Côte d’Ivoire, which could pose risks and threats to the lives of Ukrainian peacekeeping personnel.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u208	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u209	the strengthening of their protection, which is currently being carried out by the Pakistani Armed Forces, the Committee's views on the proposed project have been divided, with approval of 6, against 6. I believe -- and this is my firm position -- that the bill needs to be supported. And I ask the Supreme Council to approve the decision of the President of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u210	Thank you, Alexander Ivanovich. Shall we discuss it? [[B in m in s a l in]] It would have been possible if the procedure had not been shortened. Please sign up: two for, two against. Yes, please, Stanislaw Arzhevtin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u211	Grizzly.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u212	Yes, Gretchen Anatoly, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u213	Dear colleagues, I'd like to make a point. Five members of a committee of twelve voted in favour of the bill. But it doesn't change that. The discussion was very serious and the questions that were asked are, unfortunately, totally unqualified, even with a challenge. The Secretary of Defense's report just ruined the situation. We have not received an answer to the question of how our soldiers will be provided with physical protection. We can't rely on another country on such a mission. And the committee members were absolutely right to ask that the contingent should be increased if the president decided to continue his stay there at the expense of the security forces, it was not counted. Similarly, we have seen once again that the previous decisions on Côte d'Ivoire when the Ministry of Foreign Affairs provided information that Ukraine in that region is the only supplier of helicopter technology proved to be false because we saw that a month ago, the French used their helicopters and planes. So there's another helicopter technology, but none of the countries, more than 20 of them, that's part of the Côte d'Ivoire peacekeeping contingent, and over 10 of them have much more and much more modern helicopter technology, won't send it there, won't put their soldiers at risk. Committee members cautioned that the situation in Côte d'Ivoire would not end on September 30, which was for many years. Because if there was a previous President and today's President, there's now a President and a government. The army is practically destroyed. The intelligence reports there indicate that there is a serious threat on the part of those, more than 2,000, armed formations that are uncontrollable to anyone, as well as antiair defence devices that can harm our helicopters. I suggest we reject this decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u214	Please, Zarubinsky Oleg.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u215	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Dear Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues, and the question is really not so clear and not so simple, the committee head rightly says. But I think we need to get out of a couple of positions that we have to be definitive when we make this decision. First moment. It is indeed a peacekeeping contingent and the period that Ukrainian soldiers, Ukrainian soldiers are in Côte d'Ivoire, emphasized that they are worthy, worthy and professionally carrying out their mission. One second. This is a mission under the auspices and at the request of the United Nations, and this must be taken into account. I know that some jokers are now comparing the UN to a grandmother that everyone respects, but no one listens. But these jesters can be told that another international organization, at a certain legitimate level, would take care of the world order and influence the processes that are in countries in conflict situations, is a fact. And what the United Nations is asking for is that it should also be a factor that should not be overlooked when making that decision. But since this is really not a simple question, we can agree that if we approve of the decision, I think we will approve, the President of Ukraine on the direction of a peacekeeping continent, it doesn't mean that after that there should be any action taken by the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to maximize the safety of our soldiers who are there. Including through the management sphere, including through the direction of those who are most prepared. By the way, I understand that the contingent is entirely made up of volunteers. If so, please confirm the head of defense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u216	Good Eugene.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u217	Please pass the word to Mikolayovich Petruk.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u218	Peter's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u219	Dear colleagues! Clearly, our unit is in Côte d'Ivoire, and it is clear that it is performing the tasks and performing them with dignity. But it is in conditions that you do not wish the enemy. Clearly, both the Ministry of Defence and the General Staff, to which the committee had pointed yesterday, had to make a decision to ensure the safety of our military personnel where they were and who were performing the task. A worthy assignment does not mean that we should not worry about our military personnel. And yesterday, it was recommended to the Defense Minister, who took it somehow so incomprehensibly for the committee and not so nice, because there were professionals recommending what to do. If our recommendations and suggestions are not correct, let your own committee report what you think you are doing to ensure the safety of our military personnel. We didn't hear that. That's why our faction won't vote, because we don't hope that our military is there, that they'll come back from there alive and well. And the Ministry of Defense and the General Staff will make decisions, report to the Security and Defence Council, report to the Chief of Staff and make decisions, and ensure that our military will return from there alive and well. Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u220	Thank you. One minute at a time. Please, cook.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u221	Dear colleagues, I will vote against this project. This is the first time I'm going to do this and I want to explain why. We've heard a number of conflicting statements as to whether or not this contingent's relocation date has passed. Including the sound of a position or statement, a more faithful minister of defense. Instead, I have an official document on my hands, and this is an explanatory note to this document. The document submitted by the President of Ukraine is therefore the position of the President of Ukraine. And I now quote this document: "The Ukrainian Act of February 4, 2011 the deadline for the temporary redeployment of the Ukrainian Aviation Unit to Côte d'Ivoire is 4 May of this year." Conclusion: This contingent, for the first time in the history of the Ukrainian State, is illegal in the territory of another State, contrary to the Constitution of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u222	Please, Zybenko. Then there's Chernobyl.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u223	Thank you. Communist faction, Peter Cibenko. Dear colleagues, honourable citizens of Ukraine, the faction of the Ukrainian Company in this case is quite consistent when it does not support any military reference, unlike that some of our colleagues determine whether they are in power or opposition. We think about the lives and health of our citizens, our boys who are being sent there, and therefore we have to consider how secure their safety is. Today’s references to the decisions of the United Nations are not the indulgence of the bulls of all woes, for in North Africa a decision has been made to block airspace, and today bombing is taking place. And one more thing. We need to understand that the conflict that has arisen is the two-way confrontation in one country, and the link of the military contingent's torso is the position on.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u224	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u225	It's the support of one side or the other. So once again, the faction of the Company of Ukraine will not vote in favour of this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u226	Mr. Blackwall, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u227	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues of the Ukrainian people's deputies, our MP group "Reforms for the Future" is determined that we will support this decision. We think that Ukrainian soldiers, real men, can deliberately, voluntarily do humanitarian, even combat missions under the auspices of the UN -- it was their choice. And it's a disgrace to the Ukrainian state that the difficult, very difficult conditions on the African continent are much better for our soldiers than the conditions on their homeland, in their homeland, which also pushes them into such operations. Our department has carried out all its obligations with dignity. The use of force by our soldiers was solely within the framework that was defined by international laws, were done effectively, and including in our participation, the direct duchy that was in this country was interrupted, and in fact the country has a chance to get out of the state of civil war. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u228	Chechatov.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u229	Dear Adam Ivanovich, please pass the word to Alexander Ivanovich Kuzmuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u230	Please, Kuzmuk's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u231	Dear colleagues! The Ukrainian contingent in Côte d’Ivoire is legally based. The Supreme Council passed the law on February 4, and the President signed it on February 8. The law does not specify the term from which it enters into force, so add 10 days when it becomes effective. By May 18 he's on legal grounds. That's the first one. It's different. Risk? Yeah, there's a risk, and there's a big risk. So here's the task of both us as legislators and political leadership to make it smaller. Next. What does this contingent do for our nation? We are a non-block state, and our security is also in active participation.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u232	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u233	To be proud of our peacemakers. And I congratulate everyone, 29th World Peacekeeper Day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u234	Thank you. Question completed. There was a question here, my colleague Zarubinski, about coercion and so forth, if I'm not mistaken. If I'm wrong, the Secretary of Defense will correct me. There's not just coercion, there's a big competition to get to a similar contingent. Yes, dear colleagues, the discussion is complete. I am voting on the proposal to support the Ukraine Presidential Approval Act on the deployment of a peacekeeping contingent to Ukraine in support of the United Nations Operation in Côte d'Ivoire. Please vote. [[13:39:22]] For 242 The law is passed. The factions. Region Party - 182, Block Timoshenko - did not vote. "Our Ukraine" – 14, the communists – did not vote, "Reforms" – 18, the People's Party – 20, non-fractional – 8. We're looking at the draft Fisheries Act, Industrial Fisheries and Water Resources Protection Act. [[Registration number 8454]] There's a proposal for a reduced procedure. Please be supportive. [[13:40:08]] For 213 Supported. Please report to Kaletnik Grigory Mikolaiovich. Get ready from the Perstent Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u235	Honourable Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies, is submitting to your consideration a draft of the Ukrainian Fisheries Act, industrial fishing and the protection of water resources, which determines the legal, economic, social and organizational principles of fishing activities. The relationship between government authorities and users of water resources, the process of their study, protection, reproduction and rational use, belonging to natural resources, the internal water objects of Ukraine, its continental shelf, the exclusive sea economic zone, and the world ocean. The project contains 15 chapters and 55 articles, this is a basic project. The bill contains rules on the principles of public policy based on the food security of the State, the rational use and scientifically sound water resources and the fulfilment of Ukraine’s international obligations. The bill contains requirements for the special use of water resources. The bill defines fishery entities that have the predominant right to receive quotas for the capture of water bioresources for special use under the conditions of compliance with the rules of industrial fishing. Section XXI of the bill regulates the activities of fishing ports and fishing fleets, including the establishment of fishing fleets and their basic functions. The bill also contains other standards necessary for regulating fishing activities. In view of the above, the need for the adoption of a bill on fisheries, industrial fishing, and the protection of water resources is evident. My colleagues would like to support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u236	Yes, and thank you for supporting fishing. The head of the Committee on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations is Marina Volodymyrna Perestenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u237	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies. Bill No.8454 was submitted by the National Deputies of the Committee on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations and is quite timely, since the fishing sector of Ukraine continues to exist without legislative regulation which makes it impossible to function normally. In addition, the basis for valid regulations in the field of fish farming is now a large number of regulatory instruments. Many of them regulate issues that are not regulated by law, which makes the existing legal base too complex and contradictory, making it difficult to manage fish farming. Therefore, it is necessary to adopt the Law on Fisheries, Industrial Fisheries, and the Protection of Water Resources. The committee at its meeting supported the bill and suggested that it be considered at the first reading session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and accepted as a basis. Regarding the comments of the Chief Scientific and Expert Office to the bill, it should be noted that some comments can be accepted and taken into account in the drafting of the bill. And the main thing. Ukraine’s Fish Act and other aquatic living resources and food products differ according to the legal provisions introduced by the new bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u238	Thank you. Shall we discuss it? With the fish all clear, she'd be the only one. I am voting for adoption as a basis for the first reading of the Fisheries Act, Industrial Fisheries and Water Conservation Act, please vote. [[Registration number 8454]] [[13:44:49]] For 243 Decision taken. The law in first reading. We're discussing the draft Law on the State Land Cadastre, reports National Deputy Tkaz Roman Volodymyrovich. [[Registration number 8077]] From the committee to prepare Be Bevanka. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u239	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear listeners! You are being reviewed by the Ukrainian National Land Cadastre Act, developed by national deputies Valérie Nevenk, Roman Tkac, Ruslan Lukyanchuk. [[Registration number 8077]] I think everyone here understands the importance of this bill. To put it briefly, the bottom line is that together, society benefits. The State benefits from having information about all land resources. It can prepare an economic and administrative base in the future for tax accounting and everything that applies to land. How to benefit a citizen, how to benefit a society. Well, first of all, the owner, the user who owns the land, through this law, the state guarantees him this property. Before I go, briefly, to the substance of the bill, I'd like to remind you of the history of this issue and why we don't have this law in Ukraine for 20 years. As early as 2004, a bill was submitted to the Supreme Council. Unfortunately, for three years he had not been considered, until in March 2007 the Supreme Council had considered the bill, adopted it, but unfortunately in April 2007 the bill was dedicated by the President with appropriate proposals. Then, again, he was sent to the Supreme Council, considered and in the autumn of 2010, the Supreme Council rejected the bill. I just want to remind you again why the Supreme Council did not. Well, you see, the presence of political motives was, and unfortunately, it was every day present both in this room and in society, and so it was also one of the factors. But the other question is, at that point, we were unable to resolve the two principles of positions relating to the basic provisions of this bill. The first was how the cadastrian system should be: the single system or the two-component system. And the second question was the following. Nevertheless, what is the lowest level of cadastre that is delegated by the State, whether it's local self-government, whether it's executive authority and at what level is it going down, whether it's a village, a city or a district. After that, we, the National Deputies, together with the Ministry of Agropolitics, the Ministry of Justice, with the State Commission and many experts, I think we have done a very big job. We held several round tables, and all those positions that don't need to be reconciled, we left them as they were written in the old bill. And according to the positions that were the principles of observation, as a result of the long debates, we were able to come to a common understanding. Thus, the State Land Cadastre Bill conceptually establishes that the land cadastre is an information system separated from the State Register of Real Estate Rights and that the land cadastre function relies on the authorities of land resources. In drafting the bill, we came out of the fact that the State Land Cadastre cannot include the State Register of Real Estate Property Rights, because the cadastre mainly focuses on the physical properties of the land, namely, form, size, coordinates, boundaries, assessment, soil quality, pollution. And the rights registration system is focused on their legal characteristics, such as land rights, third party requirements, and burdens. For example, at fixed size, location, and owner or user of a land area, its purpose, monetary valuation, and other characteristics may often change. This is especially true of the monetary valuation of the land area, which depends on how far it is to or from the area of new communications: roads, communications, and so forth. The setting up of areas that make this location more convenient and generally marketable. If all these data are included in the State Register of Rights, it will have to be changed almost annually, all of which will make the specified register unstable. Above all, the above additional information does not affect the nature of the rights of owners or users of specific land. And on the contrary, with the constant characteristics of the land area, only the owner of the land can change, which in turn is not reflected in this area, but it is important to establish rights to it. I mean, there are different examples in the world of the cadastre and registration system. Depending on historical and cultural traditions, some countries combine the cadastre’s registration system into a single system; others have parallel and subordinated to various authorities, such as Sweden, Finland, Italy, the Netherlands, Cyprus, the Czech Republic, Georgia, the cadastre and the register of rights, while Austria, Croatia, Denmark, France, Germany, Greece, Ireland and the registry are entrusted with different institutions. Ukraine’s efforts to create a unified system have proved unsuccessful all these years. And that's why at the moment we're going to try to implement a two-component system. I mean, once again, the cadastre will function exclusively as a country's land information system, and the registration and guarantee of rights to these resources will be carried out separately in accordance with the special law. Deputies! I would like to remind you that in 2010, we, the Supreme Council, passed the Ukrainian Law on the State Registration of Real Estate Rights and Their Burdens, which foresees that, as of 1 January 2012, the state registration of real estate rights, including land, will be carried out by the only State authority. These bodies are defined by judicial bodies, namely, the newly created justice system of the State Registration Service of Ukraine and its local separation. That is, since January 1, 2012, when the property is registered either on the house or on the land, the justice authorities will issue the only valid document, the Property right to immovable property. To date, a document certifying ownership of the land is the State Act on the right of ownership of the land in question. Therefore, if the only state registration system has been in operation since 1 January 2012, the need for a duplicate legal instrument, which is the State Act itself, has fallen away. However, in spite of many times, in reality, we suggest that Ukrainians not immediately cancel the need to obtain the State Act on the right to land, or even from January 1, 2013, and that people should be able to learn about the new procedure for formulating ownership of their property. In addition, the bill states that State acts of ownership of land that are already in human possession continue to be valid and do not need to be transformed. And if a person ever wants to get information about his land, his characteristics, his properties, his coordinates, he'll be able to contact the authorities of the State Land cadastre, or the authorities of the land, and get an extract from the cadastre, which will always contain relevant information about his land. It also receives such an extract when it registers the newly formed land in the cadastre. There's also a wet seal, a signature, and contact details of the person who issues it. One more. That's what I want to focus your attention on. In drafting the bill, we thought whether we should be involved in the process of conducting the State Land cadastre of local self-government. However, after examining the situation and taking into account Ukrainian realities, the rural, rural, and urban councils today do not have sufficient material resources to carry out such functions. This poses an appropriate threat to the emergence of regional failures in the management of the State Land cadastre. Instead, article 36 of the bill provides for a clear mechanism for the free provision of land cadastre’s local self - administration with the information needed to carry out their mandate. We also plan for a second reading to foresee a rule that would give local self-government authorities the right to access the electronic system of the State Land cadastre. Once again, the introduction of the cadastre will be carried out only by the authorities of land resources. And the technical services of the system will be carried out by a special state enterprise. Whether it's today's CDC center or another enterprise, but we're clearly in the position that this company is not going to lead the cadastre. I would like to highlight another revolutionary positive bill. It provides for the obligation to display the information of the State Land Inventory on the Internet from the open access regime, excluding the information of landowners and landowners. This is a European experience. The practice of many countries shows that transparency of land information is essential for the realization of the rights of natural and legal persons, and for investing in Ukraine’s economy. The closure of such information in today’s conditions is one of the main causes of land corruption. In our view, the introduction of such regulations will be of great benefit to society and will contribute to the formation of a positive image of Ukraine as it is.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u240	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u241	Dear colleagues, to be completed. I understand that this law is one of the conditions for the market of the earth. But I would ask you not to be dramatic or politicized. Whether the land market will be accepted from 2013, 2014 or 2015, the State Land cadastre would have worked since 1991. So I'm asking you very much, let's go with you smart and entertaining: we'll take the law. Today, according to the State Commission, the development of the electronic system is already under way, and it can work as of January 1, 2012. So I'm asking you not to politicize this moment, and all of the many observations that are, we're going to take into account the development process, and we're going to adopt, together with you, a normal civilisation law that will work and that will do one thing, the openness of the land market and the openness of all the information about the land. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u242	Thank you. Although the State Commission did not prohibit the creation of a similar cadastral system without law, this is the case. Yes, is there a question? Please sign up. I'm continuing the session for 15 minutes. Yes, please, Kravchuk Victor. After him, he's quiet.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u243	Basil, not Victor, Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u244	I'm sorry, Basil. Vasil Petrovich, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u245	I have a question that, in our opinion, we've discussed with my colleagues, which are also agrarians, and that the law needs to be passed, but it has a lot of negatives. In our view, it needs to be worked out, namely, the project introduces an opaque procedure for the use of cadastre information and documents and for the special retrieval of information from it. It limits the number of persons entitled to receive information. The project also proposes that some of the important issues in the cadastral field be identified by government regulations. So how do you fix these problems?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u246	Well, I think that, according to the bill, those who want and have the right to receive information can, without hindrance, who for the right fee get all the information they need. As far as, for example, as I said, the organs of local self-government, we're going to do something like do it automatically. For example, at the end of January, Derzkomem has a land report in all lands. It will be processed and transmitted electronically to all local councils. With regard to the observation that many things we have directed for the development of the Cabinet of Ministers, appropriate regulations. You know, if you're brothers, this law is technical, technological. If we were to write down all the things that the Cabinet of Ministers is going to design right now, there would be not 40 articles, but 400 articles. Today -- we've already consulted with experts -- you can make basically one or two decisions, such as the introduction of the State Land cadastre, the Cabinet of Ministers' decrees, just such a regulatory nature, and it will work. That's why I don't see any of it here.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u247	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u248	Thank you. Dear Mr. Romane, I am in solidarity with Adam Ivanovich, he says: Who prevented the State Commission from carrying out the appropriate cadastral five, seven, last year? Why should we only regulate this by law? No doubt this must be done, but it is in harmony with different principles. Because you often used the word "market," "earth market." We are aware -- all those who think a little bit about Ukraine's future, as you do -- of what this market can end. And is it not the accelerated adoption of the Law on the State Cadastre of Land by a mechanism that launches the final distribution of our basic wealth - our land? After all, we understand what this can do for the Ukrainian ethnos: when we do not become masters on this earth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u249	Dear Paul Mikhailovich, you know, it's a pity, but for today Ukraine remains the only state in Europe that has no law on state-owned land cadastre, the only country, I don't say, in post-Radians space. There is no country in Europe where there is no law on this. I don't want to protect Derzcomym, but since 2003, Derzcomy has done some things for the cadastre. And if you look at it, actually, at the level of each admin unit today, the cadastre created by the FTC is working out in 2004. But the only problem is there's not a single system. Everyone's doing what they want, and there's not a regulatory regulatory document that says the rules of the game that they should be working for. Here's the problem. And I've never used "earth market" on a special occasion. Whether the earth’s market is free or regulated, the cadastre must be. This is what we are talking about today, and we are not tying it directly to the earth’s market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u250	Please, Jaroslav Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u251	What has been done in the last few years in the field of land relations can be termed one of the words "voluntary filth." Normally, it would seem that the procedure is to form a hold, reshape a sales contract, or that the donation is deliberately complicated and complicated, that people have one feeling -- anger and hatred of power. And what you'll agree is how people are being bullied in the territorial organs right now can cause, I think, an explosion of dissatisfaction. People take turns from night to get to the clerk. It doesn't work at all, it's a completely confusing scheme, that the Kyiv region, the shoes, the Brewery, the Borispoll, and no one is responsible for it. Please tell the honourable Roman Volodymyrovich, you're making changes, they're revolutionary, they're going to, they're going to need regulations. Is there any confusion about this system of land ownership to the very end? And who is responsible for what is being done now?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u252	Jaroslav Mikhailovich, you know, I'm sorry I can't show each of you. So this is what we're doing today, preparing, writing here, let's say, ten steps, or eleven steps that a citizen has to take in order to get his papers on property rights. This bill of ours simplifies them in the original form to four. And the problem is, there's no extreme today. We want to write down a rule in our second reading bill that the person who registers the State Land will. cadastre number, we want to give him state registration, so that they know clearly that there's not a land administration official there, but a specific licensed person. And if he makes a mistake, let him correct that mistake for his money. Then we will know clearly who made the mistake of walking. And if we take a percentage of 30 to 40 of our bill today, we simplify the marches of people in different offices of government.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u253	Have a seat, please. Bevanzenko Valerij Fedorovich, deputy head of the Committee on Agrarian Policy and Land Relations. [[B in m in s a l in]] I continued for 15 minutes, Igor Fedorovich, continued.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u254	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! The Agrarian Policy and Land Relations Committee, at its meeting on March 22, this year, reviewed and supported a bill on the State Land cadastre introduced by a group of Ukrainian National Deputies. The proposed bill lays down the principles of the functioning of the State Land cadastre, the system of authorities implementing it, the composition of the cadastre and the manner in which it is used. The committee determines that the adoption of this bill will allow the legislative level to address relevant land accounting issues, the guarantee of property rights and land users. The Committee supports the bill on the publicity of the State Land cadastre and notes that the large number of problems that exist in land relations is caused by the closure of such information. It should be noted that the drafting of the bill by our committee for the first time in many years has reached real agreements between the State and the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine on the interaction of the latter in the implementation of the state registration of land and property rights. The law’s proposed order of such interaction is the least burdensome for landowners and land users. In view of the above, the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt the bill as a basis. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine also supports this bill with observations that will be taken into account in the drafting of the bill for second reading. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u255	Thank you. Besides Karpuk, no one has any further questions? Yes. Then sign up, please. Please, Arjevitin, three minutes to ask. Carpuku's handing it over. Please, it's Karpuka's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u256	Dear reporter, that's a question. The project is really important, it's curative, it's been said for a long time. But as the principal administration points out, it is not completed in land management. And there's a lot of programming about the need to adopt the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers. The list of these issues that should be addressed by the Cabinet of Ministers is quite broad. Please tell me, aren't all your new recruits in this law being demolished by these regulations, and is there no warning that the Cabinet of Ministers will not only change the essence of your legislation, but can it introduce corrupt mechanisms?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u257	Thank you for asking. You know, with this bill, we've reduced as much as possible to all of the draft laws that were previously on the land cadastre, we've reduced the function and impact of the Cabinet of Ministers. But this is just a technical bill that provides order, a composition of information that has to be introduced by a land cadastre. Therefore, the effect of the Cabinet of Ministers on the implementation of this bill will certainly be significant. That's why there's a reference to the Cabinet of Ministers, otherwise there can't be. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u258	Moses Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u259	Vladimir Moses, Party "For Ukraine!".. Please give the word to your colleague, Kiselovo Vasil Aleksiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u260	Vasil Kiselov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u261	There's a microphone already, thank you. Dear colleague, someone has the wrong idea that the adoption of the Land cadastre law will automatically open the earth’s market. In this context, I want to ask you, how much time and financial costs will it take to create a land inventory? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u262	Thank you for asking. It's very right, because it's a very important function for the Cabinet of Ministers and the State Land Agency to create a land cadastre. So the bill had to be them. But given that it had been done for a very long time, we had to raise our, let's say, strength and make this bill. I want to tell you that maybe if good things go down in a few years, we'll have a map of the electronic land system all over Ukraine, a few years, maybe 3-4, maybe 5 years. This can be done by its own resources, but by means of a government budget. Not really. Not that much money. I can hear billions of dollars here, not that much money, because this system already works in many places. In fact, the government’s electronic cadastre system is fully operational in Kiev. And the dear one of you can leave.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u263	Thank you. What a satisfaction for calling Kravchuk Victor, Vasil Kravchuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u264	Thank you. The bill provides for a derogation from 2013 State acts on land ownership. So the people who spent money on making government acts, they were thrown out practically after taking the wind. Or how to obtain a new certificate of ownership of the land must be paid again. And one more question. Assigns an administrator. By what criteria should the law be appointed? So there is, so far, an opaque mechanism for the appointment of an administrator.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u265	Thank you for asking. This question should have been reported to you in principle. But all the state acts that were previously issued to Ukrainian citizens and businesses will have power. They will cease to appear because we have changed the Law on Registration of Things, and the system of registration has changed. That's why we rejected the State Act as a document that Ukrainian citizens don't need. You don't have to stand and you have to queue it, you have to work for it, and so on and so forth, and so on and so forth, we've simplified the system. But all of these state acts, they'll have the power, which we'll talk about further, on the second reading, when we're working on the bill. We will also include this standard by paying attention to it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-05-19-m0.u266	Thank you, sit down. Why don't we take it without talking? Nobody insists? Then, with your permission, I'm putting to the vote a proposal to adopt as a basis in the first reading the Law on State Land cadastre. [[Registration number 8077]] Please vote. [[14:12:31]] For 267 Adopted in the first reading. Dear colleagues, we have three minutes, let's take a look at one organizational question. I propose to include it in the consideration, it was, but for technical reasons it came out today, a draft decree amending the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Order on the List, Quantities and Objects of Knowledge of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the call. [[Registration number 8492]] Please enter into the agenda. [[14:13:19]] For 232 It's on. The point of the bill is this. To this day, unfortunately, we have in the Order on the List, the Quantities and Objects of Knowledge of the Supreme Council Committees on the Regulation of the Action of the Game Business and the Regulation of the Activity of State Lottery, not to mention any of the Committees. And when such bills are introduced, it's always going, every committee is trying to get these issues into one committee or another. Today, there are three or four committees to consider, based on what is not. What a committee to answer. Poloneyev and Kzarykov proposed, and the Rules Committee supported the idea that we should address the issue of regulation of the gaming business and the activities of state lotteries to the committee that is taking care of it. [[B in m in s a l in]] Closest, huh? No, no, not freedom of speech, you have so much. Landik, of course, would like to speak freely. The Committee on Finance, Banking and the like. I'm putting this motion to a vote. Please be supportive. [[14:14:57]] For 223 The factions, please. The Party of Regions – 174, "Block of Timoshenko" – did not vote, "Our Ukraine" – 1, communists – 25, "Reforms" – did not vote, the People's Party – 20, non-fractional – 3. Who's in favour of coming back, please vote. Why don't you want to join your committee? That's it. [[14:15:30]] For 236 We're back. I bet the vote on the motion to adopt Decree 8492. Vote. [[14:15:54]] For 230 Copy that. Honorary colleagues and the Rules Committee are proposing to adopt an order to suspend the powers of the Ukrainian national deputy Kozak for the term. Please vote. He's, you know, the director of the Crucifixion. Please vote. This is Decree 8538. [[14:16:25]] For 257 And in view of the fact that Kozak is no longer a national deputy, he accordingly cannot be head of the committee, head of the Committee on Transport and Communications. In this connection, there is a proposal to support Order 8417 — the selection of Mironek Mikhail Ivanovich, Ukrainian national deputy from the multi-mandatory national constituency of the Party of the Regions, the faction of the Party of the Regions, the head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Transport and Communications. The Personal Committee on Rules supports this provision. Please vote 8417. Please vote. [[14:17:18]] For 244 Copy that. Let's welcome my colleague Mironka. Dear colleagues, morning meeting. [[B in m in s a l in]] Sergey, give it to me, give it to me. The morning meeting of the Supreme Council is closed.
