ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:02:53]] Cards were registered in the 354 National Deputies Sessional Hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of the Ukrainian national deputy Valery Pisarenko. Please welcome our colleague, wish him success. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you of the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the plenary on 7 July 2011. 19 questions on the agenda have been considered. As a result of their consideration: 7 laws and 59 regulations were passed, one bill and one draft decree were rejected. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that in accordance with the Supreme Council of Ukraine regulations, "the hour of questions to the Government" is held on Friday. But on Monday at the Conciliation Council, we decided not to spend an hour of questions to the government today to use this time to make the necessary decisions. And at the close of this session, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine will be present. Dear colleagues, we have many questions to consider on Friday, on this final day. I would ask the factions to exchange their thoughts on how to organize our work. One minute, please. Alexander Ephraim, your offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u2	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, first of all, I would like to thank all the deputies who worked actively both yesterday and this morning on the bills that we have been considering. And we have adopted very important documents for our State to move forward. And I ask all the people's deputies to support the agreement that we reached at the Contingent Council on Monday and to work today without interruption until the end of our consideration of the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u3	Yes. Thank you. Vladimir Kaplienko, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u4	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! The MP's "Reforms for the Future" fully supports the thesis that was worked out at the Conciliation Council. If we decide that we want to close this session in a solemn setting today at 1300 hours, let us work without interruption. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u5	Thank you. Vladimir Yavorowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u6	Vladimir Yavorowski, Timoshenko's Yulia Block. I want to tell our voters that closing this difficult, exhausting session, unfortunately, is taking place in a very oppressive mood. Last night, of course, an anti-national law was passed. Today, pensioners may not yet know what they deserve or how they should live and who will later retire. Well, there's one thing left, maybe President Yanukovic will have the courage and willpower to not sign. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u7	Dear colleagues! Who else insists on factions? Valentina Matthew, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u8	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! I think if we're going to go on the proposed schedule for today, it's really enough here for the far and wide tonight. It is therefore necessary, if the Law on the Rules of the Supreme Council is to be implemented again and the bills proposed for consideration in the second reading are to be considered, as it should be, that is why we will need to be determined on the move. If we're still thinking about shutting down and closing this session in plenary at 1:00, we need to adjust the proposed agenda for today's session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u9	Yes, Oleg Zarubinski, please. Please, Zarubinsky's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u10	I'm sorry. Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! The National Party faction is set to work. And today it's a Friday, it's a work day, the only way we can think about it is that the agenda that's being proposed can be a little bit of a correctional plan for us to consider key important bills. And maybe we can build a hierarchy to do that, and we can actually complete the session today. And we'll be working as long as it takes. The faction will work full-time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u11	Dear National Deputies! Because they're formed. Please, Ruslan Knazevich. No questions asked. We need to vote now.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u12	Dear Head! Dear colleagues! This is a very vivid testimony that there was a complete misunderstanding of the logic of yesterday. It was necessary to drive an incomprehensible blind bill by night. No one knows what it is that has voted for, no one understands what amendments have been made, which have not been made, no one understands what the final draft of the bill is to put into order today completely such secondary passing bills. Would it not be possible for a peaceful regime today, if needed tomorrow, for it was said that if it were to be considered for a few days, it would be possible to consider, indeed, the bill of lading, not as it was adopted yesterday? I don't say the essence of the bill anymore. You will see that your very life will soon prompt you to hold extraordinary meetings to amend the bill in the near future. So let's maybe just take another look at that bill today, and we're not going to be able to be able to put in laws that don't actually serve Ukrainian society right now, especially the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u13	Dear National Deputies! We exchanged thoughts. We need to make a decision on the proposal so that we can continue our work until Friday’s scheduled issues are completed, and then we close the session so that we do not hold an emergency session, as our colleague, Ruslan Knyazevich, spoke about. I am voting on this proposal for the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in plenary mode until the finalization of the issues set out in the calendar on Friday, July 8. Please vote. [[10:10:16]] For 234 Decision taken. Thank you. Honorable National Deputies, in accordance with the Rules, namely, Article 25 of the Rules takes 30 minutes on Friday to issue parliamentary requests. Allow me to make a statement of the MP's requests. Vladimir Yavorowski to the President of Ukraine for which the professional and personal merit of Judge Rodion Kiriev was transferred from the Berezan City Court of Kiev to the Pecher District Court of Kiev, which has a meagre judicial internship, has been authorized to conduct the most resonant cases in the state. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:11:13]] For-35 Request not supported. Hennady is teasing the President of Ukraine about the situation surrounding the All-U.S. Radio "Melodia" on the issue of disenfranchisement of the use of language channels. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. Please vote. [[10:11:44]] For-57 Request not supported. Oleg Nadoshi to the President of Ukraine about the capture of the Ukrainian Ministry of Defence's State Enterprise, Ucro-Defense Supplier. [[10:12:18]] For 208 Request supported. I'm voting on a motion to refer a request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[10:12:39]] For 211 The decision is not taken. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Social Policy and Labour, to the President of Ukraine on the conservation of labour potential in the mining and metallurgical complex of Ukraine. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:13:12]] For 252 Request supported. I would like to vote on the request to the President of Ukraine. [[10:13:32]] For 252 Decision taken. The request is addressed to the President of Ukraine. Groups of National Deputies to the National Human Rights Council of Ukraine, the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine, the State Executive Service of Ukraine on the need for a comprehensive review of the long-term failure to execute a court decision on alimony to support a minor child in the middle of Irina, 2003, which has a significant impact on the provision of her needs. [[Bondik, Prutnik and others]] Groups of National Deputies to the Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Law Enforcement, the Attorney-General of Ukraine on the use of measures to bring a judge of the Pecher District Court of Kiev to justice for giving a manifestly criminal order and employees of internal affairs and special departments of Berkut and Griffon for unlawful use of force in a court hearing concerning the national deputies of Ukraine and representatives of the media. [[Shustik, Bodnar, School]] Valentina Matvijeva to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to restore citizens at the request of a pre-existing schedule of diesel trains at the Olevsk-Korstoń South-West Railway. Vladimir Karpuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on addressing urgent issues related to the teaching of the subject "Trouble Learning" in general educational institutions and paying for the work of individual categories of education staff engaged in work with harmful working conditions. Vladimir Lešchenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the restoration of the work of the collective plant "Seminal Brick Plant" in Chernigiv region. Vladimir Leschchenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the terms for the disposal of jachemymics accumulated in the town of Bobrovitsa in Chernigiv region. Eugene Kzarykov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Interior of Ukraine, on another act of vandalism near the Eternal Fire in the Slava Park of the hero city of Kiev. Eugene Kzarow to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Ministry of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine for the protection of the rights of the residents of the hostels and the initiative for the preparation of regulations aimed at resolving housing issues of residents and the extension of the moratorium on the alienation of hostels. Igor Sharov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the development and implementation of a state-wide programme for the creation and installation of a cycle track network, with the aim of improving the environmental situation and the quality of life of Ukrainian cities. Lilia Grigorovitch to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the elimination of Ukrainian classes at Lugansk Secondary School No. 22. Mikoli Derka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the use of measures to relocate residents of the village of Novoselyvka Dnipropetrovsk, who live in the area of shifting processes. Alexander Vasiliev to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the financing of the construction of social infrastructure in the cities of Ukraine and Selidova in the Donetsk region. Alexander Vasiliev to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the financing of the construction of social infrastructure facilities in the Mariinsk Region of the Donetsk Region. Alexander Crnvolenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, Head of the Kiev City Public Administration on the need to take account of the development strategy of Kiev, the concept of the strategic development of Kiev, the Master Plan of Kiev, the State Budget of Ukraine and the budget of Kiev for 2011-2012 for the completion of the construction of the Kurenówsko-Chervono-Armian line, as well as the construction of the Left Bank and the Podilski-Viguri line of the Kyiv Metropolitan Line. Oksana Bilozer and Anatolia Matvienka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine about providing information on the allocation of funds for the Braille edition of the Call. Alexander Crnvolenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Head of the State Agency for Land Resources of Ukraine, the Head of the Kiev Regional Public Administration, the Biloczerk City Head on the illegal decision of the Biotzerkow City Council of the Kyiv Region to terminate the lease of the land plot for the planting of the citizen of Olena Trotsky. Paul Silent to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the functioning and restoration of the terms of the State Licence Language of the Chief Editor of the Ukrainian Language Service of the Ukrainian Broadcasting Service. Sergei Gordienka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney-General of Ukraine, the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the need to preserve the state-owned plant research station of the Institute of Lubian Cultures and Phytopharmaceuticals, to provide State support and to prevent raiders from taking over. [[village of Berezotocá, Luben district of Poltava region]] Sergey Tereshuka to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the allocation of funds from the State budget for the reconstruction of the water supply network of the village of Potash, Mankow district of Cherkas region. Sergei Teryochina to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the lack of response by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine to the gross violation of the established rules of diplomatic relations allowed by the Minister of Defence of the Russian Federation Anatoly Serdukov, and on the referral to the President of the Russian Federation of this matter. Group of National Deputies to the Prime Minister of Ukraine to improve medical care for Ukrainian citizens with severe heart problems and to take a new step in the development of domestic cardiosurgery. [[The mosquito, the omelnovich, and others]] Groups of National Deputies to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the disposal of ammunition located in the A 1479 military area in the Ichnyan region of Chernigiv. [[Mankovsky, Komara, Andros]] Jury Karmazin to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Adviser of the President of Ukraine, the Chief Executive of the Directorate for Humanities and Social and Political Affairs of the President of Ukraine on the use of immediate measures to bury the remains of more than 150 dead soldiers in the city of Red Lyman, the same number of remnants of dead soldiers who are held in private storage in the areas of Shakhtarsk and Snow, the verification of facts of cynical, open and insolent contempt for memory and the remnants of soldiers who have been established during the Great People's War, the purposeless use of budgetary resources, the possibility of embezzlement, the waste or the release of budgetary resources by the head of the private enterprise, who have been established in the Middle East, the lack of funds, the lack of funds, the lack of funds, the necessary to absorb and recover the funds of the budget of the military. The branch of Greeneweck to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine about the provision of information. Groups of National Deputies to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the financing of reconstruction have been covered by the Museum of Prison Cossacks of the National Hortica Reserve in Zaporozhye. [[Tomenka, the Extremity and Others]] Jury Karmazin to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney-General of Ukraine, the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Ministry of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine on the use of urgent measures to prevent violations by the Society's officials with limited responsibility, the Financial Company "Ukrbudinvest", the property and housing rights of investors of the 148-room housing house No. 94/1 "V", located on the street. The prospect of Peace in the city of Hmelnick, the restoration of the specified fixed object, and the invocation of responsibility. Valerija Baranov to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, on the purpose of providing targeted assistance to individual categories of citizens rather than the benefit of free urban and suburban transport. Mikoli Kkulkchinsky and Yuri Karmazin to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Minister of Environment and Natural Resources of Ukraine, the Head of the Odessa District Council to take urgent action to prevent the catastrophic pollution of the Black Sea aquarium, resulting in a violation of the ecological balance and a grave violation of the constitutional rights of the Odessa residents and surrounding territories for environmental safety and an independent environmental expertise resulting from the construction of a deep-sea discharge to reduce sewage and liquefied water from the Odessa Bay's biological treatment site, with a capacity of 400,000 cubic metres per day at a cost of 585 million. Valery Bondiq to the Ministry of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine, the Kyiv District State Administration, the Executive Committee of the Biotzerkow City Council of the Kyiv Region on the need to verify the facts set out in the address of the disabled person of the Great Foreign War, Matthew Babenko, born in 1922, who is entitled to social benefits in accordance with the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, to guarantee their social protection, and needs to improve living conditions in a reasonable period. Vasila Petyovka to the Minister of Health of Ukraine regarding the closure of the station of the Teresvian City Hospital in Zakarpatsk. Victoria Demyanchuk to the Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources of Ukraine on the need for a comprehensive and objective environmental safety check at the seaports of Eupatoria and Scandinavia. Vladimir Kaplienka to the Minister of Environment and Natural Resources of Ukraine for the provision of information on the state and scope of the functioning of the natural-indictment fund. Mikoli Sherschuna to the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources of Ukraine for the construction of small hydroelectric power plants in the district of Bereznov. Oleg Zarubinsky to the Minister of Interior of Ukraine on providing Ukrainian citizens with constitutional freedom to choose their place of residence. Oleg Zarubinsky to the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine on the illegal restriction of the rights of families with disabilities and the enforcement of the requirements of legislation for free transfer to their property of humanitarian aid. Alexia Plotnikov to the Ministry of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine, Kyiv City State Administration, on the need to verify the facts in the addresses of the inhabitants of the Holy District of Kiev, namely, the participant of the Great Homeland War, the veteran of the work of Constantine Oszewski, the disabled of the Great Homeland War of the first group of Paul the Bezmelnick, the disabled of the second group of Nina Stasuk, who have the right to social benefits as disabled persons and veterans of work and the Great Nativity War, but are in difficult circumstances and need to improve living conditions in intelligent terms. Group of People's Deputies to the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine to find out the circumstances of the illegal use of the logo of the newspaper "Derkalo Week. [[Heratchenko, Kondratuk and others]] Ukraine" and the distribution of newspapers without output typographical data. The Greenewecko to the Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources of Ukraine on the adverse impact of the oil-fat terminal on the health of the inhabitants of the village of Malodoline Odessa. Sergey Vlasenka to the Head of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine on the inadmissibility of exceeding the duration of the constitutional application case. Vladimir Danilenko to the Head of the High Council of Justice regarding the violation by the judge of the Bilopil District Court of the Susma District of Yulia Swirgunenko of the oaths of the judge and the adoption of prejudiced decisions that discredit the judicial authority and undermine the citizens’ confidence in the judicial system. Sergey Vlasenka to the Head of the High Council of Justice regarding the presence in the actions of the Judge of the Pecher District Court of Kiev, Rodion Kiriev, of signs of a breach of oath. Group of National Deputies to the Head of the Supreme Qualifications Commission of Judges of Ukraine on the establishment of facts that testify to the violation of the oath by the judge of the Pecher District Court of Kiev, Rodion Kiriev, and the application of measures to dismiss him from office of judge. [[Shustik, Bodnar, School]] Jury Odarchenka to the Head of the State Judicial Administration of Ukraine for the verification of the impartiality of the automatic distribution of the Yulia Timoshenko case. Andria School, head of the State Service for National Cultural Heritage, was involved in an inappropriate response to violations of security regulations during construction and land work in the historic district of Lviv. Vasila Wondernova to the head of the State Financial Inspectorate of Ukraine regarding the legality of the sale of consumer society buildings in the village of Kosmach Ivano-Frankow region. Sergei Gordienka to the Attorney General of Ukraine, head of the State Executive Service of Ukraine for the protection of the rights and interests of the Construction and Consumer Society Projectbuilding, Poltava, which is linked to the failure of individual management structures of contractual terms, decisions of the courts of Ukraine and the avoidance of payment for work and services rendered. Vasil Krawczuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the legality of the transfer of gas distribution networks to Shepetovka Hmelnicka district. Valery Baranov to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the verification of the artificial bankruptcy of the State Research and Project Institute of Titanium in Zaporozhye. Vasil Spak to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the use of procuratorial response measures to events that are taking place in the Open Shareholders Association of the Hellenic Combine of Bread Products. Andrew School to the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Minister of Environment and Natural Resources of Ukraine on the damage caused to nature by the police during the 2011 "Ukrain Trophy" motor race. Vladimir Vizewski to the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine on the provision of information about the construction company that was carrying out the capital repair of the premises of the DA’s office in the district of Kyiv. Eugene Wolintz to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the verification of compliance with Ukrainian legislation in the bankruptcy case with regard to the Society with limited responsibility for Infox Trade. Vladimir Danilenko to the Attorney-General of Ukraine regarding the inappropriate reaction of the Prosecutor of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea to the parliamentary appeal and failure to take appropriate action to protect the legitimate rights and interests of the residents of the Pomeranian street, 1 in the village of Solventional by way of a lawsuit for the removal of the said building into the communal property of the community. Viacheslav Kirilenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the failure to comply with the prescription of the General Authority for the management of the well - being of the Kyiv City Government regarding the dismantling of buildings illegally installed at the foundation of the Decade’s Church. Viacheslava Kirilenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the attempt to illegally block the area of green plantations on Kurskih Avenue, 41 - 43 in Suma City, and on the need for verification by the Attorney General of Ukraine of the actions of the Suma District and the Suma City Prosecutors, which led to an increase in social tension in Suma City. Zoya Shishkina to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the improper examination of Albin Wesselwa’s complaint about the legality of the Truhan Island siege. Eugene Dobrak to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the violation of existing legislation in carrying out geological exploration work by the Society with limited responsibility for Dolomine in the Rakovicka Rural Council of the Radomisl district of the Žitomir region. Zhao Shishkina to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the improper review by the procurator of the Hmelnicki district of the appeal of Vikenti Bukkiwski concerning the unlawful actions of officials of the Open Shareholders of the Thermoplastatomat and the private manufacturing company Almaz Khmelnicki in estrangement of the railway line. Constantine Bondarev to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the conduct of an illegal transfer of land to private property and the use of urgent measures of prosecutorial response. Mikoli Kowzel to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the objectivity and impartiality of considering the legality of the closure of a family - type children’s home in the city of Kiverci Volinsk. Oleg Tishchenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on numerous and systematic violations guaranteed by the Constitution and legislation of Ukraine, the rights and freedoms of Ukrainian citizens to Love Slisarenko and Lydia Krasuli. Oleg Tishchenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the further examination of the complaint by the Head of the Brovari Municipal Organization of the People's Acts Party "The Hope" by Viacheslav Silukov regarding the forgery of his signature in the application of the Brovari Municipal Organization of the Party to the duties of members of the District Electoral Commission, its heads, deputies, members and secretaries at the election of deputies to the Brovari Municipal Council, the Brovari Municipal Head and the election of the deputies of the Kyiv District Council on October 31, 2010. Alexander Steshenko to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the abuse of power by the head of the Swatian Reich administration and the head of the Swatian District Council of the Lugansk Region during the elimination of Swats High School, the release of the director of this school of Lidd Krivoschei and its political persecution by the noted leaders. Helen Bondarenko to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the lack of response to and failure to respond to parliamentary appeals. Sergio Moshak to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the criminal negligence of doctors, which has resulted in tragic consequences. Group of National Deputies to the Attorney-General of Ukraine on the inappropriate consideration of parliamentary appeals regarding the delaying of criminal proceedings for the theft of state funds by the Society's officials with limited responsibility for the "Collective Repair Technology Corporation". [[Denkovich, Soroczynski-Kyrilenko and others.]] Group of National Deputies to the Attorney-General of Ukraine on the elimination of the violent facts of violations of land law and the rights of residents of the village of Sofia Borszagivika, Kyivo-Svetoshin region of Kiev by officials, executive authorities and local self-government, and the abuse of these violations by law enforcement authorities. [[Schmelwai, Bealza, and others.]] Andrija Pavlovski to the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine, the State Property Fund of Ukraine, the Ministry of Agriculture Policy and Food of Ukraine for the violation by the Ministry of Agrarian Policy of Ukrainian legislation on the dispossession of collogists and councillors, which resulted in the removal of workers from the agricultural complex "Soviets" - the structural unit of the state-owned enterprise "The Desert of Water" right to create a separate legal person. Jury of Lithuania to the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine, the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources of Ukraine, the State Agency for Water Resources of Ukraine on the urgent use of response measures and verification of gross violations of water and environmental legislation, illegal fishing, violations of the rights of citizens to use a natural object, the rules of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Land Code of Ukraine, the Water Code of Ukraine, the provision of conservation and restoration of natural water resources and the inaction of officials involved in this matter - the Ulyanov Regional Administration of the Province of Kirograd, the Ulyanovo Department of Environmental Protection and the prosecution of those responsible. Vadim Stolar, deputy attorney - general of Ukraine - prosecutor of Kiev, on the use of urgent measures to prevent violations of Ukrainian urban and land laws regarding construction projects in Kiev. Vassila Wonderful to the Head of the Ivano-Frankow District Public Administration regarding the unsatisfactory conditions of the functioning of the Delantinian Psychaneurology Home. Vladimir Yavorowski to the head of the Kyiv City State Administration for the wish of President Viktor Yanukovic of Ukraine to have his own city, which will pass from helicopter to Mikhail Gruszewski Street, while the majority of the population is outside the poverty line in Ukraine. Jury Odarchenka to the Herson City Head on the situation of the construction of the Oskar shopping centre by Harmonia LTD in Herson, which will lead to the destruction of the embezzlement of the name of the Heroes of Stalingrad Battle and the memorial sign of "Heroy Stalingrad". Vladimir Kaplienka to the Chief of the Odessa Regional Bureau of Forensic and Medical Research for the provision of information on the number of return visits to the Odessa Regional Bureau of Forensic and Medical Expertise of Internal Affairs Officials, who addressed the hospital with the medical health care department for medical examination for the purpose of obtaining medical assistance to permit the subject of a permit system. Thus, honourable national MPs, 111 MPs have been asked, one of them being sent to respond accordingly to the President of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, let us move on to the issues set out in the schedule for today. Here we need to resolve the issue of including another bill in the agenda so that the committee can work. May I have your attention, please? I am voting on the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2011. [[on the budget programmes of the Ministry of Infrastructure of Ukraine]] [[Registration number 8765]] Please vote. [[10:37:21]] For 221 The decision is not taken. The factions? Please. Region Party – 171, "BUT" – "Fathership" – 0, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 5, Communists – 0, "Reforms for the Future" – 20, National Party – 19, non-fractional – 6. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the last time I'm going to put to the vote the question of reintroduction into the agenda. Identify yourself, please. [[10:38:07]] For 244 We're back. I'm betting on the vote to put the matter in order of the day. This is Project 8765. [[10:38:28]] For 244 Decision taken. Honourable People's Deputies, 4 factions, that is, 3 factions and 1 MPs have applied, these are factions of the Party of the Regions, the People's Party, the MP's Group of Reforms for the Future and Our Ukraine for the People's Self-Defense, to return to the issue of inclusion in the agenda of Bill 8777. In view of this appeal, I am voting on the motion to return to the consideration of the inclusion in the agenda of draft Law 8777. Please vote. [[10:39:21]] For 241 We're back. I am voting on the inclusion in the agenda of the bill (registration number 8777). () [[B in m in s a l in]] It's all about football. [[10:39:47]] For 240 Decision taken. The draft Law on Refugees and Persons requiring additional or temporary protection is being announced for consideration. [[Registration number 7252]] The rapporteur is the head of the Committee on Human Rights of National Minorities, the international relations of Yuri Vasilovich Gnatkevich. Please, Yuri Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u14	Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you that on June 2nd of this year, you and I adopted the Refugee and Temporary Protection Act in our first reading. I also want to remind you that we've accepted it, despite the fact that the scientific expertise has recommended that it be returned to the Cabinet of Ministers. But we were wise to accept it in the first reading, relying on our committee to work it out. And we've really been very careful with the work on the drafting of this bill after the first reading. We worked with the Ministry of Justice. Many comments awaited. He was considered on a subcommittee and a committee meeting. We looked forward to our comments from our colleagues and were very grateful to our colleagues, Javorowski, Shishkini Elini, Tolstenka. Zarubinsky’s and Carmazin’s comments were eagerly awaited. Why Zarubinsky? Because he worked closely with the Ministry of Justice and made 15 suggestions. As for Carmazin, he made 16 amendments, of which 8 are included. All the remarks made by the chairman of the Zarubinski Committee are also taken into account. We unanimously approved him for the second reading and to accept him as a law in general. I should point out that the material that's still coming from the Chief Expert Office, well, it's more like he doesn't have any conclusion that he doesn't recommend it, it's more like a typical review where there's always something in the review that needs to be looked at. I would generally recommend, Vladimir Mikhailovich, that he be put to the vote without a particular discussion and accepted in the second reading and final.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u15	Dear colleagues, let's go with the amendments that someone insists on. Amendment 4th. Yuri Carmazin insists on it? There's Yuri Carmazin. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u16	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I am grateful to the committee that he has taken this matter seriously. It really needs a law. Only I think after tonight we have half a country thinking about becoming refugees, Vladimir Mikhailovich. After a marasmatic law adopted in a marasmatic manner, apparently empty chairs in violation of the Rules. The conscience must be very unclean. And today, Vladimir Mikhailovich, 20 more questions to ask, 22 questions to order the day before lunch is extraordinary. And I propose in this bill that the words "country of citizenship" should now be replaced by the words "country of nationality." And why would I say that? Because in the 1951 Convention on the Status of Refugees.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u17	Dear Yuri Anatolyovich, first of all, thank you for your appreciation for the work of our committee. You remember that the word "national" after the declaration of independence in Ukraine has acquired a slightly different semantics, because in the 1951 Convention the term "nationality" is officially translated "civil". And so we don't confuse people where "citizen" is, but where "national" is, we think it's possible to protect the term citizenship. Well, once the word "national" and "nation" were feared, now we're not afraid, but to keep people from getting confused, we suggest so.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u18	Puts to the vote the 4th amendment. [[10:44:36]] For the 15th. Correction not supported. Amendment 12. Tolstenka, is she insisting on her? No, it's not. Yes, Tolstenko, 14th Amendment. No, it's not. Shishkina, 16th Amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u19	Don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u20	Vladimir Yavorowski, 17th Amendment, page 23
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u21	Now, now, now, looking.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u22	We're practically all Javorowski's remarks, just this one.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u23	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, she's actually accounted for, so I won't comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u24	Thank you. 18th, Tolstenko. Don't insist. Yuri Carmazin, 19th. Are you insisting? No, it's not. Yes, the 25th Carmazine Amendment. Are you insisting on her? No, it doesn't? Thank you. Tolstenko, 26th? No, it's not. Vladimir Yavorowski, 32nd. Don't you insist on her? Carmazine, 34th? Is he insisting? Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u25	Yuri Carmazin. I propose in article 10, part eight, to complete with the second sentence of the following sentence: "The answer to the application is given in the monthly period." The bill does not deal with it. no time limit for consideration of the application is specified." In practice, this may result in a delay in the processing of the application and, accordingly, delaying the identification of the necessary information by the Migration Service, making it difficult to determine the reliability of the information provided by the applicant in order to establish the validity and reality of the documents presented by the applicant. I ask that we put within the appropriate government bodies this time. And the second. Vladimir Mikhailovich, speaking to you, because today we have no government, nothing, everything. Most people think that the government doesn't have to report anything, Tihypco did his job yesterday, and I'm calling you: don't sign a clearly unconstitutional pension document, don't sign it, because it's his.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u26	The vote is amended by the 34th. Please take the position of the committee on this matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u27	I want to explain. Dear colleagues, the point is that the term "monthly term," as our Russian brothers say, "stretched notion" is: there are 28 days, 30 days, 31. So it would be a better 30 - day amendment, which is absolutely. Its correction, in fact, coincides, only with ours.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u28	I'm betting on the vote of 34 Yuri Karmazin. [[10:47:55]] For-12. Correction not supported. 39th Amendment, Carmazin, do you insist on it? Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u29	Vladimir Mikhailovich, Yuri Karmazin I'm still addressing you, Vladimir Mikhailovich: don't sign the law that was passed in an unconstitutional way last night in violation of citizens' rights. Do not sign it because it cannot be done to the end without committing an official crime. Someone on the committee, someone in the machine has to do it. It doesn't match everything, it's not as yet everyone sees it. There all you have to do is commit an official crime to make that law. Now on this amendment: I proposed in article 11 to delete part three because this part essentially repeats the contents of part eight of the bill. Look, please. I know you've considered many of my amendments. But, look, we don't need extra duplicates, you can just delete that part of the eighth and article 10. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u30	Please, Yuri Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u31	By the way, this amendment is exactly the same as Tolstenka's 38th amendment. He and I discussed the subject. The point is that this information is being collected by the local migration authorities. And in article 11, the decision - making process by the central authority of the executive branch is also a migration service. The central authority may also contact the authority and executive authority for additional information before making a decision. That's why we're here. It doesn't make any sense.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u32	I'll bet the vote on the 39th amendment. [[10:50:02]] For the five of us. The amendment is not accepted. 43rd Amendment, Yuri Carmazin. Are you insisting on her? Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u33	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I appeal to you again on the grounds that you do not sign a law that is harmful to Ukraine's pension, so-called reform. The reform of the name Tihypak, after which he himself was dissatisfied yesterday and didn't think that parliament and "carts" would do it, most of the "carts" would do it. Who there thinks they're "crusts," I want them to show up. I ask in article 12 to delete the words "another government authority." Because it turns out that any state authority can participate in the process of loss of refugee status. The activities of the authorities are regulated by the law of Ukraine, and they cannot be subject to the stated concern, since this is not in line with our Constitution. This is why it is a very simple suggestion: to delete the words “another public authority” in article 12.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u34	Yuri Vasilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u35	Dear colleagues, the thing is, it's all about trouble. And trouble can also bring about any authority of the state if it has any reason to do so. He can bring it in, so he doesn't have to bring it here.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u36	I'll bet you 43. [[10:51:55]] For the 10th. Correction not supported. Amendment 51, Yuri Carmazin. Are you insisting on her?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u37	Yuri Carmazin. The 51 amendment stipulates that in article 13 part two after the words "to be accused" insert the words "to be tried in a year." I mean, I'm focusing on where the decision on refugee status and additional protection can be invoked. And speaking to you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, I ask you not to sign an anti-constitutional law, an adopted anti-constitutional way that violates the right of citizens to proper pension services established by the Constitution. I'll tell you. That there was no proper pension protection, and now there's going to be a heart attack after tonight. The number of calls on the ambulance has already increased considerably. This is for you to know, in all the cities of Ukraine today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u38	Amendment 51 of Yuri Karmazin is put to the vote. [[10:53:25]] For-9 Correction not supported. All other amendments have been taken into account, or the authors have refused them. Yuri Vasilovich, please inspire us.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u39	Dear colleagues, I see that the problem of improving migration services is improving, improving, and we are on this path, and this topic is very relevant. The committee thanks you for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u40	Please, Yavorowski's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u41	Vladimir Yavorowski, Timoshenko's Yulia Block. They missed 48 of my amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u42	48th?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u43	Yeah. It's partially accounted for. I still want it to be put to a vote so that these people who are without citizenship and refugees, or those who do not have refugee status, can still be a very specific time frame for their consideration of their issues. Otherwise, it can take years to get there and so forth. So let's make sure that we have the law on what's going on for 30 days. And the last thing I want to say. Today, people in Ukraine woke up in a completely different country this morning than they were yesterday. This country is becoming much poorer, and the confrontation between the richest, who will become richer, and the poorest, who will become even poorer, inevitable, and can simply lead us to disaster. And put it to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u44	Yuri Vasilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u45	Well, that major note that Javorowski finished on, it interrupted my major note and thanks from our committee. But since this amendment is still partially taken into account, I would just put it to a vote and that's all.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u46	Just a minute. If it's partially accounted for, and now we're putting it on the vote as a whole, it's not supported, then we can destroy it there, can't we?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u47	Well, put her on the stand.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u48	Well, that's how we put the vote on the whole amendment, it's partially counted. We can put it on, yeah? Well, I'm forced to go according to the Rules. I put to the vote Amendment 48 to take it into account in general. [[10:55:51]] For-7. The decision is not taken. Part of the adjustment remains. Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? I bring to your attention once again the conclusion of the committee: to adopt the bill in the second reading and generally as a law. The principal legal authority has certain observations that the committee disagreed with. I am voting on the proposal for adoption in the second reading and in general as a bill of the draft Law on Refugees and Persons requiring additional or temporary protection. [[Registration number 7252]] Please vote. [[10:56:49]] For 302 The law is passed. Thank you. Honourable National Deputies, I am announcing for consideration the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts on the settlement of legal relations between creditors and consumers of financial services. [[Registration number 7351]] The rapporteur is the head of the Committee on Finance and Banking, Tax and Customs Policy, Homutinnik Vitaly Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u49	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! In preparing the bill for second reading on a committee with the participation of the National Bank of Ukraine and the National Deputies, numerous proposals and observations have been processed from the legislators. Much of the comments are taken into account. At the same time, some of the comments were mutually exclusive and could therefore not be taken into account. In general, in its work, the committee relied on the need to ensure a balance in the project between the rules that protect the legitimate rights of creditors and the standards that protect consumers of financial services. The second read received 92 amendments, of which 36 were taken into account and 56 were rejected. Appropriately, we are ready to consider the second reading and follow through on the amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u50	2 repairs, Tolstenko. Don't you insist? Lappina, 3rd. No, it's not. Carmazine, 4th Amendment. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u51	Yuri Carmazin. I would like to point out to you, Mr. Chairman, that this bill is in grave violation of the Constitution of Ukraine and is a violation of article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules. This document will open a gateway for further looting of the people of Ukraine. Please note the observation of the Scientific and Scientific Administration. He feels that he cannot be accepted and is subject to systematic development. It thinks the 116th is broken, the Constitution is broken. In the 4th amendment, I ask you to delete part four, namely: the characteristics of the bank’s termination as a legal person and the alienation of its property, rights and obligations in the process of withdrawing the bank from the market are established by law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u52	Yes, 4 amendments are made to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:59:48]] For-9 No correction supported. Amendment 7. [[B in m in s a l in]] Amendment 7, Carmazine's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u53	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Adam Ivanovich, I ask you, you would not have had to consider this law today if it was contrary to article 116 of the Rules. What is this selectiveness? Do you understand? If we want to, we don't make laws, if they're against the people, then it's okay, then we'll have it done, please. I'm asking you to take another look at the observation of the Chief Legal Authority, which acknowledges that there are grave violations of the Law of Rules and Constitution. As to that, not entirely significant, I suggested in part four that we exclude the word "as well as the alienation of his property." Rights and duties in the process of getting the bank out of the market. ” Thank you and please respond to systemic violations and withdraw this law from consideration.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u54	Thank you. Yuri Anatoliyovich, thank you, what you're talking about is the 6th amendment, it's counted, and I'm voting for the 7th amendment that Carmazin rejected. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:01:18]] For -6 Not supported. Eight o'clock, Lapina. Oh, no? 9's too. 12th, Carmazin. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u55	Yuri Carmazin. I refer again to the Head, who presides over this case: the honourable Adam Ivanovich, this law fundamentally violates the rights of citizens, this law violates the Constitution, introduced in contravention of article 116 of the Rules, which is why I believe that it should now be withdrawn from consideration. And you have every reason to take it off right now. Why do we continue to consider it? That we just want to take time is one question. I suggest in the amendment the 12th part of the second part and the second part of the fourth, that we rule out as being harmful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u56	The 12th amendment shall be voted on. [[11:02:38]] For the five of us. Not supported. 14th, Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u57	Yuri Carmazin. Mr. Chairman, I know that we have today the number of buttons that are sufficient to make any decision to change from day to night or day to night. But nevertheless, I insist that this bill be withdrawn from consideration, it is unconstitutional. With regard to the specific amendments, please: In part two of the second paragraph, the second sentence is made: If an election has been decided by a court, it shall determine in its decision whether a legal person or a higher body of a legal person is required to make and approve a balance. The clear obligations of the court are to be recorded here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u58	14th vote. [[11:04:02]] For -6 Not supported. 15th Lupina. Don't insist. 16th, Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u59	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Adam Ivanovich, I stress that the law contains mass violations of article 116 of the Rules, violates the Constitution. It's got to be off-limits. With regard to the exact amendment, the 16th amendment refers to the proposal to exclude part three from article 110 in relation to whether or not to make such an amendment, I propose another revision: "If the value of the legal person's property is not sufficient to satisfy the creditors' requirements, the legal person is subject to procedures established by the Law on Recovery or Recognition of bankruptcy." This is for me to say that, in accordance with the Law on Recovery or Recognition of the Debtor, a variety of procedures are applied by bankruptcy, which constitute a certain set of actions. Thank you. Either we rule out, or it's an editorial.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u60	The 16th amendment shall be voted on.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u61	The committee's explanation, just a minute. Adam Ivanovich!
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u62	The committee said its word in the table. [[11:05:33]] For the five of us. Not supported. Karykov, 17th. Don't insist. Lappina, 18th. No, it's not. Carmazine, 20th. 19th, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u63	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Adam Ivanovich, I address you. Please do not repeat the night’s practice. The practice is very simple: you're denying the people's MP's rights to hear the answer to an argument, why you have to consider whether or not you have to consider the amendment. You take away the head of a committee, by the way, a talented very man, you deprive yourself of the right to speak, you understand, to exchange thoughts. This is what is written in the Supreme Council Rules of Law. It went down last night. But this does not mean that it should be a system. Either change the law, or let us act by this law. And I propose in article 1054, in part three, that the word "established by law" should be replaced by "established by legislation," because it is not right in legislation to express blanking standards in the past tense. This is the first time. And there's no reason to argue here, even though it says, "explanations and justifications." And it's written down just the deviations.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u64	I can comment if there is a need. It's about 20 corrections. It is rejected because it suggests a narrowing of the position regarding the responsibility of the individual for providing false information.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u65	Yuri Anatoliyovich, agree that "established by law" is better than "established by law."
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u66	I disagree.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u67	Well, you don't agree. That's why the 20th vote is on. [[11:07:32]] For-9 Not supported. Xenia Mikhailovna, 19th? Yes, please, Lapina.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u68	21 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u69	Uh, 21st?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u70	Xenya Lapina, Party "For Ukraine!".. Dear colleagues! I will insist only on the amendments that are most important, and in my opinion they simply affect citizens’ obligations and rights. This amendment refers to the fact that this law introduces a so-called floating rate, esteemed colleagues, not fixed, once upon a contract, but floating. [[B in m in s a l in]] Yes, but there is a floating rate. But I want to pay attention to whether or not in the world floating bets are used, but in this case it's a little bit false, not like in the world. In the world, the floating rate does not depend on the bank, not on the recipient of the loan. For example, it binds itself to the stakes of LIBOR or to any other bets there on the national bank concerned, i.e. both sides are the same in relation to such a floating bet. In our option, the floating rate is actually going to depend on the bank, it's going to predict their view, and it's going to predict the possibility of viewing it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u71	Thank you. I'm going to comment on this position. First of all, it's about the terms of the contract. There could be a deal, both with a floating bet and a fixed bet. That depends on the deal between the bank and the customer. And the direct norm, which is, is clearly written: that in a floating contract, if the rate goes up, the bank has a right to increase, if the total rate goes down and the total index goes down, then the bank is obliged to lower that rate. That is, in the event of a decrease, he is obliged. And it's still spelled out clearly "according to the terms and conditions laid down in the loan agreement." So I think it's clear enough that all these things are prescribed here.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u72	21st vote. [[11:09:57]] For the 18th. Not supported. Serbin, 22nd, does not insist. Carmazine, 23rd.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u73	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Adam Ivanovich, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that there are no grounds in this table in the "justification" line. In addition to everything else, I'm bringing you back to the conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration, which thinks that this law cannot even be considered. Dear Adam Ivanovich, and we are considering him. In article 1056-1, I suggested that the first sentence after the second sentence should be completed with a new sentence, the third sentence of the following sentence: "in the event that the parties to the contract did not specify the type of interest rate, they are considered to have agreed to set a fixed interest rate." This is to warn possible disputes between the parties to the credit agreement in the future.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u74	Yes, the 23rd vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u75	Thank you. Again, everything is spelled out correctly and clearly.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u76	You explained it in the previous article. [[11:11:24]] For the Not supported. 28th, Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u77	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Adam Ivanovich, I still insist that you hold consultations right now, have entrusted the legal, expert administration with their opinion whether you can further consider this bill, which is completely lobbying from the point of view of banks, which is absolutely not in the interests of Ukrainian citizens. Amendment to Article 1056. 28th, proposed in part four in the second sentence after the word "indice" by which to supplement the words "which cannot exceed the index set by the National Bank of Ukraine in accordance with part five of this article." This is very important in view of the things that come upon us in September, October, in view of the kind of financially inefficient policy that we have.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u78	28th vote. Please be sure. [[11:12:53]] For-7. Not supported. 29th Carmazine's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u79	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Adam Ivanovich, I am again asking you to entrust the Supreme Council of Ukraine with the administration of this law. It should have been removed immediately because it violates and limits the constitutional rights of citizens provided for in article 64 of the Constitution. In the exact amendments that we're talking about right now, you've turned us over to the specific amendments, you don't want to look at the global things that undermine the constitutional constitution in the state at all. Please, part five, I suggest in the first paragraph, after the word insert, add the words "set up by the National Bank of Ukraine". And it doesn't say why it's rejected, the offer. I don't get it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u80	The 28th vote is amended. I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:14:21]] For-13. Not supported. 29th, Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u81	You turned 29 down.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u82	We voted 28th. And now 29th.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u83	Adam Ivanovich, you turned it down anyway. Okay. I am.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u84	Don't you insist?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u85	No, no, I insist. Adam Ivanovich, I insist and will insist as long as the Constitution and regulations are violated. And I'm going to insist that you gather, give the task now to gather experts. Because these are the hard things I just said, you know? Then it'll be like the Tax Code, believe me. In article 1056, Prim. I suggest in part four in the second sentence after the word "indice" by which to add the words "which can't," wait. Part five, that's how I see it, you see, you're cursing. In part five in the first paragraph, after the word "supply", insert the words "set up by the National Bank of Ukraine".
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u86	The 29th amendment shall be voted on. [[11:15:51]] For-13. Not supported. Next, 33rd. Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u87	And Leipzig, uh, counted. Yuri Carmazin. I propose in amendment 33 that article 222 be kept in good order. This is about the Criminal Code of Ukraine, honourable national deputies. Why, in banking law, do banking professionals go into mechanisms that are totally misunderstood in this committee? This is why I propose to leave it in this form, namely: to provide information to state authorities, Crimea authorities or local government authorities, banks or other creditors for the purpose of receiving subsidies. These changes need to be ruled out because they refer to crimes in the field of farming and therefore.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u88	The 33rd vote. You'll have a chance, Yuri Anatolyovich. [[11:17:24]] For -14 Not supported. 34th rejected, Tolstenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u89	And the next 34 amendments I'd like to make for confirmation and vote. We've just had a conversation with the National Bank, and we've agreed that the decisions should be determined only with regard to the housing that is provided to the evicted person should be determined only by the court's decision, by the prosecutor's decree. Therefore, the request to vote and support colleague Tolstenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u90	I mean, the 34th Amendment Committee rejected it, and you're offering to support it, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u91	Yes, yes, a request to support.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u92	I'm putting 34 amendments to the vote. () [[B in m in s a l in]] [[11:18:27]] For 248 34 revisions accepted.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u93	35th, similar to Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich, is also included. I welcome you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u94	35th. Carmazine's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u95	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I didn't tell you by chance that the law was breaking. Well, thank God someone figured it out. And you rejected my 35th amendment, wrote, committee. And contrary to article 47 of the Ukrainian Constitution, the right of forced deprivation of residence was allowed, not by a court order, but by a procurator’s decree. That's why, if we've just voted on this amendment, and that's what my amendment was about, so you have to automatically take it into account, you have to record it in the protocol that my amendment is considered to be included. Do you understand? But if it were counted earlier, maybe I had less gray hair on my head. And you can't break through a committee, unconstitutional stuff when it's carried.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u96	Thank you. Yuri Anatolyovich, the gray hair is good for you, don't worry. 35th Amendment, since we voted 34th, 35th Amendment of Carmazin is also automatically counted.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u97	Yuri Anatoliyovich, I would like to invite you to come to our committee meeting at least once and to stand your ground there.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u98	I'm sorry. Why do I have to come here like the Constitution? I'm writing you, don't break the Constitution. That's the first one. And the second. I make changes to all the laws, if I go to all the committees at the same time, they all start at the same time, I don't even have strings left. You understand that physically, I can't. Unless I can clone, well, clone until I can. Thank you for the invitation. Now we're talking about 38 revisions. Adam Ivanovich, in paragraph 3 of the second sentence, replace "after the creditor's decision" with "in case of a non-judicial settlement on the basis of a contract of question" and continue with the text. I'll explain. This is what I'm doing to clarify the situation and make it impossible to abuse mortgageholders, to violate citizens' rights. Because residents should not be evicted from the creditor’s decision to apply.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u99	38th vote. [[11:21:18]] For-16 Not supported. Lappina, 40th. Don't insist. Carmazine, 41st.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u100	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! In the Banking and Banking Act of Ukraine, in article 62, part five, after the words "excess credits" add to the words "insofar as the right of claim is waived". And I'm asking you to support this proposal. And perhaps, Mr. Vitaliy, you will make a decision without a reminder from Nazbank and say yes, this should be voted on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u101	This proposal is rejected because it is the global practice of such information by financial institutions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u102	41st vote. [[11:22:33]] For the 10th. Not supported. Carmazine, 43rd.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u103	Yuri Carmazin. Amendment 35, 43. In article 35, part one three, I propose that the following sentence should be made: "If, during a fixed term, the mortgage holder is dissatisfied, the mortgage holder has the right to decide whether to make a mortgage claim by way of a non-court settlement on the basis of a contract or to appeal to the court for a mortgage claim." Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u104	43 votes. [[11:23:38]] For the 10th. Not supported. Yes, the following amendment to Carmazine 46.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u105	Yuri Carmazin. 46 revisions. Dear Adam Ivanovich, I still insist that you gather the best experts now, consult with the regulatory committee. I see Sass here in this room right now, and I'm addressing him as an official, the first deputy head of the committee. This law is in violation of article 116 of the Rules. It violates the Constitution in many parts. Now we've removed one of those things, but there's a lot more. In the exact amendment 46, I foresee that in article 40, part two, in the first sentence, after the words "on the basis of a contract" should be supplemented by the words "and in the case of a non-judicial decision on the basis of an agreement on the question of the drawdown" and then by the text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u106	46 The amendment shall be voted on. [[11:24:56]] For the 15th. Not supported. Yuri Anatoliyovich, maybe we've had enough and enough, will you insist on the amendments? 53rd, Lapina. Don't insist. What's that? 49th? Please, 49th.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u107	Thank you. Lapina, Party for Ukraine! Dear colleagues, it's also an important part, it's actually an extension of the possibility of calling a citizen for an executive notary, which is no longer a court decision, but an executive notary. Dear colleagues, well, you do realize that notary is not a court of law, he does not examine the evidence of the parties, he does not compete with the parties. He relies, in fact, entirely on the information provided by the bank. And he cannot determine whether appropriate sanctions have been calculated correctly, whether the obligations of the borrowers have been fulfilled. In my opinion, this rule will lead to a real deterioration of citizens' rights.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u108	The 49th amendment shall be voted on. [[11:26:16]] For -14 Not supported. 53rd, Lapina. Don't you insist, Kseniya? No, it's not. So you have 54th, and I was talking about 53rd. Please, Carmazin, 54th.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u109	55th.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u110	55th? Come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u111	Adam Ivanovich, reverend, 55th rejected. 54th they, thank God, counted. 55 revisions. Adam Ivanovich, I emphasize that you, as presiding officer, should take action — this is your duty under the Rules of Procedure Act — to remove from the consideration of a law that violates the Rules of Procedure Act and the Constitution. You don't do this. I'm making a note of you as the national deputy of Ukraine, Adam Ivanovich. Please note: 11 hours 27 minutes. That's for the Constitutional Court. Now, in part five of article 11, I propose that we put it this way: "For the purpose of identifying all creditors and persons who have shown a desire to participate in the resolution of the debtor, the judge in the preparatory session shall give approval and shall officially publish it. The approval text should contain the full appointment of the debtor, his postal address, bank props, and obligation of the applicant.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u112	You're criticizing me, so I won't violate the Rules. 55th vote. [[11:28:06]] For-19 Look, you're getting bigger today. Next amendment to Arjevetine, 64th. Please. What's that?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u113	Adam Ivanovich, and 61, I can do something.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u114	53rd. Xenia, unfortunately, you've been busy, I've been announcing it. All right, 53rd, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u115	Dear colleagues, 53 amendments are very important. Because, in fact, if not taken into account, it actually turns out that banks will force all natural persons to sign contracts simply as a natural person, not as an entrepreneur, because it would result that the natural person of the entrepreneur can be defrauded, thereby raising the cut under their obligations, and the physical person simply, not an entrepreneur, is not considered to be a bankruptcy. Thus, it is not convenient for the bank to lend credit to an entrepreneur to a natural person, since circumstances may happen when he does not carry out all the obligations, he will be exposed there, only a portion will be attributed to the bank. So we're just going to lose the ability for a small business to get transparent loans and everything will go into consumer lending. We already had this, and as a result, we had a banking crisis, a massive consumer loan just covered up.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u116	That's how 53 votes for the amendment. [[11:30:01]] For-12. Not supported. 61st, Arjevitin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u117	Honorable National Deputies, 61st and 63rd articles are considered essentially. I wanted to make some comments, because it's very common in the rest of the text. The point is that on the first reading of consumer credit, we accidentally took the property away. Real estate is not classified as consumer credit. So we remove the subject of real estate from consumer credit. Because it's not a consumer loan, it's a once. Secondly, I would like to emphasise that the granting of consumer loans in foreign currency from today, since the adoption of this law, has been prohibited. So, of course, it is illogical to extend this standard to real estate. Therefore, my proposal is taken into account, in view of the fact that the National Bank has in general removed the subject from the text of the law concerning real estate in relation to consumer credit. And, Your Honor, don't speculate on the subject of evicting people. The only way to evict citizens from their homes under this law is by decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u118	Yes, I understand you don't insist on voting. Lappina, 66th.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u119	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u120	Yeah, 62-a, please, then. Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u121	Yuri Carmazin. Dear national deputies, dear Adam Ivanovich! I'm happy that you can see that the number of people voting like Carmazin is increasing, and to your phrase that I'm growing, I want you to grow up, too, Adam Ivanovich. As a result, I invite you to read the fourth letter of the legal authorities ’ comments. It reads, "Despite the requirements of article 116 of the Supreme Council Rules, where proposals and amendments to the draft draft for the second reading can only be submitted to the text of the bill adopted by the Supreme Council, as well as to the Act on Refunding Payments, which was not the subject of the first reading of the Supreme Council." That's point seven, so you know. So, Nazbank made an offer: delete an article called, 11th, "The consumer's right in the case of purchase of goods, real estate or payment of credit services." I'm against taking this amendment into account. Please put it in.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u122	The 62nd amendment is confirmed.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u123	Please vote for confirmation of the committee's decision. [[11:33:04]] For 233
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u124	Supported. 64th Amendment, Arjevitin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u125	Dear people's deputies, I just find it hard to listen when they speculate on obvious things. In our bill to avoid speculation from banking institutions, and I'm stressing to me that the bank, the customer, are equal subjects. We have done a clear procedure in this law to regulate price policy. We've given customers the right to choose either a fixed price for the entire duration of the contract, or a floating price. This does not indicate that the bank will be directing its proposals tomorrow. The floating price is the agreed standards according to the index change graph. These indices are calculated according to a formula, these indices are publicized by banking institutions. And my amendment is about when the bank comes. The customer comes into the bank, the bank has to show him the entire calculation of that price, that's the total price. the total price of the loan. And so, Your Honor, don't speculate. Now customers have the right to see everything as the price of credit is formed.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u126	64th vote. Don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u127	He's filming.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u128	Take down the vote. 66th, Lapina. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u129	Thank you. Lapina, party "For Ukraine!".. Dear colleagues, I am not entirely obliged to agree with my colleague. In my opinion, if e is taken into account, actually there are still a few such passengers still in the text. In fact, some additional battles are legalized, which banks impose in parallel with the credit rate. Today it is practiced as a practice, such as the payment of a loan. My friends, that bank is working because it's getting a loan. And it's all of his banking actions that have to be invested in this loan. No additional services should be provided by the bank. And when there's a census of the registrar, the notary, the insurer, the assessor, it's all right, but it's the cost of actually making a contract, not getting a loan. And getting a loan is already a certain operating activity with respect to the bank. If that's what's left.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u130	66th vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u131	Xenia Mikhailno, you'd like to leave it as it is. Today, tanks can provide any service, any additional service, and pass it on to the consumer. This law prescribes clear things, you understand that. [[11:35:56]] For-7.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u132	Z-7. No correction supported. Serbin, '70s. Arjewitin, 71st.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u133	Your Honor, it's 71. The point is that when a customer comes into a banking facility, he gets the full price for his credit: and for the service, and the insurance, and the valuation, and the notation services, that's all, the customer sees the price forming. And then this price, if the customer agrees, is going to attach this agreed price to the credit agreement and it's going to be fixed for the entire duration of the credit agreement. My amendment was only to determine the price at the time of the conclusion of the contract. Why? For example, a customer will attach a price calculation to his credit card, such as by car and insurance. He was insured this year for one price, and the following year the insurance campaign will pay a third price. This is not a factor that depends on the banking institution. So if I were to suggest that at the time of conclusion of the contract. But I will not insist on speeding up the matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u134	Yes, thank you. 74th, Lapina.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u135	Thank you. There's still a series of the same amendments, and I'm not going to insist on them anymore, and I realize I don't. But I just want to get into a discussion. Dear colleagues! I'm also willing to be transparent and understand the price. But in this case, that's how it works, and that's what Mr. Argewittin would have if he had actually confirmed what I said. So it turns out that in fact, we're just legalizing additional services. And if there is a provision in the new law that is considered null and void by conditions that are not provided by law, we take and provide additional services by law so that they are no longer considered to be worthless. I mean, I think that's where the trick is. And that's why I'm proposing my 74th amendment to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u136	That's how the 74th vote works. [[11:38:20]] For the five of us. Not supported. Carmazine, 84th.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u137	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Adam Ivanovich, I still insist that you gather the consilium that the doctors say, and still have a serious meeting. So far, we've ruled out only one anti-constitutional situation where housing was taken. And then we haven't done anything yet. That's why I'm asking you to give the team, and we're serious about what to do with this bill. I think it should be directed at the third reading, at least because of that one amendment. Now, I suggest in part, this is the exact amendment, in part ten in paragraph one, to exclude the words "and for consumer housing credit." Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u138	Yes, the 84th vote. [[11:39:41]] For-12. Correction not supported. Dear colleagues, we have completed our consideration of the draft law. No, no, no, no, no, no, What's that? Xenia Leapina's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u139	Thank you. 91 corrections not included. I'd like to make a sound. I understand they won't support it. But I think it's very important. Look, this is about transferring the loan to another institution, another person. I say that such a right to change the creditor’s liability under a consumer credit agreement that is done without the consumer’s consent is worthless. Otherwise, if that provision is not available, it will be possible, regardless of the fact that there is a decriminal prohibition, to break the prohibition, and to charge it with being worthless. In other cases, the committee took my amendments into account, and that is correct, partly taken into account in the editorial opinion, that it would still give rise to a right that is worthless. And in this case, I've turned something down. It seems to me that it fits the logic of what you're proposing.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u140	Yes, Vitaly Yuriovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u141	Textually, all these values are written according to all entries. And I think the committee thinks the text is normal. Therefore, the committee does not support this amendment. And after voting on this amendment, I'd like to add one sentence to the Final Positions, please give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u142	Let us now vote on the amendment. The 91st amendment shall be voted on. Then there are questions in Stanislav Arjevetina. [[11:41:43]] For -14 Correction not supported. Stanislaw Arjewitin, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u143	Once again, it is possible for the people to be evicted only by decision of the court. Please don't say any other words. It's just a court decision. The other one. In End Positions, we're going to write that this law is going to only work on new loans and it's not going to spread, which is already being issued. That's two. And the third. Anyone who wants to know exactly how convenient it is for a customer to determine and choose a bank for lending, please read again the tex of the law. We gave the customer the right to choose that bank and that price policy that set it up. This is sewn up and throughout the entire credit agreement is unchanged. Please read the text. As far as I'm concerned, I suggested that we extend the cost-benefit benefit and the interest rate reduction not only to the bad customers who made the restructuring, but also to the good customers. If the client is working properly, perhaps he too should use the standard to reduce the annual reduction by 0.5 percent.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u144	Let's do it this way, as amended, we have to go because this is a performance. The amendments came to an end when we discussed them. Please, Vitaly Hometic.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u145	Dear, distinguished colleagues, Vladimir Mikhailovich, it is indeed necessary to add this sentence that this law applies to those contracts that will be registered after the law has become effective. That is, everything that today all agreements between banks and consumers that exist must be governed by the standards that existed before the adoption of this law. So in the final positions, please fill in. This is the position of the committee, once again, agreed with the National Bank, the Cabinet of Ministers and the Supreme Council's Legal Office. The final position, paragraph 3: "The act of this law does not extend to contracts that are made before the law becomes effective."
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u146	Is that correct? Please, Vladimir Yavorowski. What is the correction?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u147	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, reverend! There's just an offer. Since the law is highly controversial and is not fully understood in many places, there is a proposal. Let's just swap in a minute before the factions vote. I think it'll be smart.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u148	If it counts, this is the right thing to do.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u149	No, no. This is an additional sentence, which may have to be confirmed.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u150	So the committee's recommending it? There's no objection. We just count it, that's all. Dear colleagues! Factions per minute, please. Please, until 92. Please, Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u151	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! Look, read the box in the end. I'll take it, and now I'll quote you on what's been written to you by scientific and expert, a more faithful legal office. Section III, paragraph 1, under which this law takes effect from the day following the day of publication. Articles 58 of the Constitution of Ukraine need to be reconciled with article 5 of the Ukrainian Civil Code, according to which law and other legal acts do not have a retroactive effect in time. Given the nature of the money, this section of the project needs to be complemented by the formulation of this content: "The act of this law does not extend to credit contracts entered into by it to take effect." Do you understand? If we don't write this down, today a person who has some relationship with a credit institution will be told, and you know, and right after this law, your status has changed. Because of this and another observation that applies to 92. We do.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u152	Vitaly Yuriovich, please explain. One minute, we don't have one. Vitali Juryovich, please explain that your offer you made is included. Once again, please announce this proposal in its closing positions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u153	Once again, for the transcript, if you have to put on confirmation. "Final position" to add paragraph 3: "the act of this law does not extend to contracts which are entered into before the law becomes effective." Period. [[The voice from the hall. (]] [[Unheard]] )
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u154	Well, that's how we agreed, we agreed on that position. Let us, honourable colleagues, to preserve the purity of the ranks, please pay attention to this proposal, which has just been proposed by Vitali Homutinnik for the expansion of this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u155	Carmazine's correction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u156	Well, that's Karmazin's amendment, yes, and the committee. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please vote. [[11:47:07]] For 228 Correction accepted. Please, just one minute. From Nazbank, right? Microphone, please. _________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ I'm sorry. If we accept this amendment, our actions by adopting this law will be incorruptible. We considered that only those contracts that would be entered into after the entry into force of the law would apply to the application of fixed and floating interest rates. It refers to interest rates, let me stress, interest rates.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u157	Yeah, we can add interest rates, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u158	We can add interest rates.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u159	Just a minute. () [[B in m in s a l in]] If there's any other wording, we will. I'm asking you to calm down. If we do, we will put to the vote what we have counted.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u160	There are concerns about fixed or floating contracts. So maybe it was more correct to say that this only applies to the interest rate part of the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u161	Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? We voted on the amendment proposed by the committee by Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin, which is contained in the recommendations of the General Legal Authority, namely, the act of this law does not extend to the credit agreements entered into by it. Period. I now put to the vote the adoption of the law as a whole. Please vote, registration number 7351. [[11:49:27]] For 226 The law is passed. Dear colleagues, I understand that everyone is relaxing, but let's work this out. Two factions: the Faction BUT – Fatherland, the faction "Our Ukraine – The People's Self-Defense" called for a recess to be announced for consultations and statements. Arsenius Yatsenuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u162	The people of Ukraine, yesterday’s dominant majority, passed a law under which all over Ukraine was deprived of their right to work, forfeited their right to a pension, and forfeited their right to a future. I want to ask President Yanukovic of Ukraine to veto this unconstitutional law -- this could at least fix the situation. The other one. In that case, if the President does not commit this law, the opposition has decided to submit to the Constitutional Court a motion declaring this law unconstitutional. We will win this court if the court is not under the pressure of the President's Administration. And the third. In opposition today, the only mechanism left to control how the budget is being implemented, and the control that the vast majority do not steal from the state budget, is the Chamber of Auditors of Ukraine. Today, opposition factions have filed a joint application for the post of head of the House of Auditors of Ukraine, Peter Alexiyovich Poroshenko. We demand the handover of the House of Auditors as a tool for controlling this vast majority.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u163	Yes, Mikola Tomenko will continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u164	Dear colleagues! I want to confirm that the logic of opposition to the Pension Reform Act is common. And we appreciate yesterday's decision as wrong in terms of strategy, anti-national in terms of content and cynical in terms of the nature of the discussion. The so - called public discussion took place for several months, resulting in no amendments to veterans, Chernobyls, and the educational professions of ordinary citizens. More cynically, it was yesterday when the committee, working day and night, took into account very important amendments that were all unconfirmed. So we think that in terms of legitimacy, this bill doesn't have social legitimacy because it's supported by a few percent of the citizens. But most importantly, from a legal point of view, we view it as illegal. And these are the arguments for the President's veto when he signs the arguments for the Constitutional Court. I want to tell you that, according to official registration yesterday, out of the 248 national deputies who allegedly voted in favour of pension reform, this is the 188th People's Party – 20th, Reforms – 18, Non-faction 11, NUNS - 11, there were 143 national MPs registered and actually present. Thus, less than 150 national deputies voted in favour of the pension reform. Of course, I am glad that the entire Bureau did not vote. Vladimir Litwin, head of the Supreme Council, did not vote, and First Deputy Adam Martinyuk and Mikola Tomenko voted "against". I think these are also arguments to make this infamous decision illegal and illegal. And we will do everything we can to ensure that this pension reform, which was voted on at night, is not signed or active in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u165	Dear national MPs, we're taking information to the public. With regard to the proposal made in the form of a requirement, or an ultimatum, for the appointment of the head of the Court of Auditors, I recall that according to the Rules, in accordance with the Constitution, the Head of the Supreme Council is appointed under the law on the Accountant Chamber. So I would suggest we have a dialogue, find a common position, because I demand, I don't accept. And the interesting thing is, let's talk. And when we figure out that we're going to have 226 ballots, we're going to make the right decision. But only in the process of such a common, peaceful dialogue. I think we need to stop these mutual accusations that someone is stealing something. Maybe people have a lot of experience in this regard and nostalgia, which is not possible, we just have to wait -- and everything will be fine with us. I'm tired of these screams and groanings and curses. And they're all bad. That's how we're all responsible for what's wrong. Honourable National MPs, a draft of the Ukrainian Act on Public Order and Public Security in connection with the preparation and conduct of football matches is under review. [[Registration number 7137]] The rapporteur is Vasil Gritzak, head of the committee's subcommittee on law enforcement.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u166	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! A committee on law enforcement was prepared for a second reading of the Ukrainian Law on Security and Public Order in the course of mass sports and physical health measures. [[Act 7137]] The law clearly defines the following situations: the definition of terms, basic principles, the safety of sports facilities, the specificity of public order and public and public security in relation to the preparation of football matches, public order and public safety in connection with football matches, the distribution of spheres of responsibility, the order of interaction between public order and public safety, the rights and obligations of the public, and restrictions on access to sports facilities. It means banning the movement of a number of items, weapons of alcohol, and so forth. I'll tell you, honourable national MPs, it was a very difficult bill, it was hard on the committee. We went through the first, the second reading, and now we're out on the second reading again. This law has been passed twice by the Cabinet of Ministers, and we've taken almost all of our leading lawyers' remarks into account. I want to say that 77 amendments have been made to the people’s deputies, all of which are taken into account, or part of 71, only six amendments have been rejected. It's a pretty complicated job, and I think we're going to end it successfully today by a positive vote. Thank you for your attention. Please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u167	Dear colleagues, requests for amendments. Danielenko, 9th Amendment. Are you insisting on her? Oh, no? No, it's not. Snack? No, it's not. Yeah, now, now, now. The committee worked very well, practically everything was taken into account. We're going to the repairs now. 46th, right? Amendment 46. Mikola Tomenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u168	Dear colleagues, I would like to celebrate the very productive and constructive work of the committee and the committee on behalf of which Vasil Mikhailovich will report. And of my three amendments, two are included and one is included in part. My suggestions were that this difficult period of international competition, and not just Euro, but, let's say, this order of tasks, must be the shared responsibility of local executives and local self-government authorities, they should act as an agreed mechanism and in accordance with their authority and actual legislation. Before the second reading, the committee found this balance, and that's why I'm happy with the decision and I don't insist on voting on my 46th amendment. Instead, I would like to say that it is important for us today to have a special meeting or a round table so that we can walk through a series of issues without waiting for the championship. One of these issues is the implementation of the bill that I was the author of, and the Supreme Council supported me, and the President signed, on the sale, consumption of alcohol and low-alcoholic beverages. There must be clear only standards. Not every place should think of where to sell and what to sell, but the only standard in all of Ukraine. And that's an important question, because I can see that some cities go to the fulfillment of our law, some of them don't go. And the second topic, I think, along with our sports committee, we need to have a meeting, because I get, maybe not quite, with the law, I get a lot of signals, a lot of worries about how they're going to work with tickets, so that they don't let speculative and other things sell and distribute tickets today. So I think the committee has been very active, and I'm going to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u169	Thank you. Dear colleagues, all other amendments are included or the unaccounted for have declined. According to the committee, it has worked quickly and thoroughly, and the General Legal Office has made some observations that the committee finds unacceptable to itself. That's why I'm voting on a proposal for a second-reading committee and, in general, a bill of the law on security and public order during mass sports and physical health institutions, registration number 7137. Please vote. [[12:00:36]] For 276 The law is passed. I suggest your attention, Your Honor, the draft Law on the Judicial Assembly. The rapporteur is the head of the Committee on Finance and Banking, Tax and Customs Policy, Vitaly Homutinnik. Reporter! Dear colleagues, give me the bill now. Just a minute. The reporter will be in the session room right now, delay 7530, 8062. I'm asking the Hometics to come to the hall. Here we go.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u170	Dear colleagues! Please, Vitaly Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u171	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! Let me remind you that the adoption of the draft Law on the Judicial Assembly is based on the need for a legislative settlement on the administration of the judicial assembly, which is already provided for by a number of laws, such as the Civil Procedure Code of Ukraine, the Code of Administrative Justice of Ukraine, and the Code of Criminal Procedure of Ukraine. The second reading received 66 suggestions from Ukrainian national deputies, 43 of whom were counted, 23 were rejected. Therefore, we are ready to consider the draft Law on the Judicial Congregation.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u172	2nd Amendment. Is Odarchenko insisting on her? No, it's not. Chewchenko, 6th Amendment. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u173	Colleagues, I'd like to draw your attention to this amendment and to yours, Mr. Chairman of the Committee. See, in 2033, when Mikola Tomenko headed the Committee on Freedom of Speech, he and the journalists achieved a very simple thing: then they set up a minimum table for the judicial assembly in appeals against journalists and the media. What was the logic? If you demand a million dollars as a compensation for moral damage, make a first 100,000 pledges and then go to court. See what this bill is proposing right now? Now this plank is off. And we're going to end up with a guy who even requires a million million dollars in compensation, and he's going to have to pay it all back. And that's enough to demand 10 or 100 million dollars of compensation for moral damage. This logic is contrary to the general logic of the bill. We were thinking about how we could better fill the budget of the courts. So I asked you to be very careful, we can't leave this position, we need a bottom table in lawsuits against journalists and the media.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u174	Please, Vitaly Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u175	This proposal is rejected for the following reasons. We can't bet different rates for certain professions. There's got to be total bets here. There are exceptions to, let's say, socially unprotected types of people and others. And as for the professions of such approaches, they did not.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u176	Please, Mikola Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u177	Dear colleagues! I wanted to draw your attention here to the fact that we have been living today on the condition that such a standard has been in force since 2003. So that's equal to 8 years of this standard working. I'm proud to tell you that this standard has prevented us from closing dozens of newspapers. Because it was accepted for one simple reason. You remember the story, for example, with the first version of "WB." When they published that Shevchenka was being sold for a large sum. Kiev's Dynamo said they insulted them. They tore up the newspaper, the newspaper closed. Then, by the way, Shewchenka was sold even more. Andrea, I mean. So if that happens, today we're opening Pandora's Slice. So the local official today, for any criticism he's going to put on the circuit newspaper, for example, 100,000, and 100,000, the newspaper is closed, it doesn't exist. Friends, that's why this plank we're offering allows us to hold off on our appetites a little bit. Because for an official, what's important is an apology, an important, morally important compensation, not a closure of a newspaper, which is almost on a regional level today. So I'd like to ask Vitaly Yuriovich to leave behind an active standard that has been in operation for seven years. And if the committee disagrees, I insist that we re-vote and demonstrate whether we value freedom of speech or not.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u178	Vitaly Yuriovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u179	The position of the committee is shown in the table. We can move on to the repairs, and now we can just consult back in the working order. I'd like to say yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u180	Dear colleagues, let's make this amendment extremely sensitive. So the suggestion is: let's go through all the amendments and go back to this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u181	We'll be back in the end.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u182	As respectable colleagues, consider how to proceed. I propose an amendment to Shewchenk to support and remove this subject. But let us return to the final vote of this amendment. Yes, the 10th Amendment, Stanislaw Arzewittin. It's partially accounted for. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u183	Ladies and gentlemen, I just wanted to say technically that on the left hand side of the text we have 15th and 16th, the point, and on the right hand side it's technically 16th and then 15th. It's just to make things right. With regard to my amendment, the point is that when a citizen refers, has a decision by the Court of Arbitration and wants to receive an executive letter, he has not paid anything for it today. On our first reading, we decided that he should pay 960 in general courts or 1920 in household courts. My proposal was to take down not one minimum wage, people paid, but 0.1. So it's within 100 bucks. But given that the Homutinique offer was 0.2 percent, and that's about 200 dollars, I think it's a heavy load. That is why I think that my correction is counted.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u184	Yes, thank you. Let's move on then. Stanislaw Arjewitin, your 19th amendment, right? Well, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u185	Ladies and gentlemen, the 13th Amendment refers to the fact that citizens of Ukraine, when they have received a ruling from the arbitral tribunal, of course, have the right to press charges against this decision. And in order not to pay a high price for this accusation, given that 90 percent is usually consumer credit in arbitral courts, I proposed paying not one single minimum wage, i.e. 960 dollars, but to pay up to 100 dollars. But since the committee accepted the amendment of 0.5 percent, or 450 dollars for the complaint, I consider that my amendment is essentially taken into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u186	Thank you. You don't have a 19th. The 19th is rejected. Are you insisting on her? Stanislaw Arzevtin's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u187	As far as the 19th amendment is concerned, it's the court's rate, not of natural persons, but of legal persons. And I also proposed to cut from two minimum wages, i.e. not to pay 2,000, about 2,000 for a legal person to sue, I also proposed 0.1 or 0.2, but the committee made a decision and reduced the rate of the court to 1.5. So given that they're legal persons, I think that's the amount that's positive, within one and a half thousand to pay for. I do not insist on confirming my amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u188	Well, by the way, the 22nd amendment, it's similar, there, well, it's the same thing. Yes. Amendment of Yuri Carmazin 26th. Are you insisting on her? Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u189	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose in sub-paragraph 1, paragraph 4, of article 4, the size of the court rate for the re-issue of a copy of the court decision to change from 1 bracelet per sheet of copies by 60 copies per sheet. The thing is, it's going to cost us this money if we're going to adopt this law, but today for people, for those who are underfunded, it's going to be a very, very important difference. And that's why I'm asking that we don't play with numbers like that. And if we were counting on submission, we would remember that the judicial congregation is just an addition to the fact that people are already taxed to uphold judicial authority. We didn't want to put it all on people right away.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u190	The vote is amended by the 26th Yuri Karmazin. [[12:11:11]] For-9 No correction supported. Amendment of the 28th Yuri Carmazin. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u191	Yuri Carmazin. It's too bad they didn't support the amendment. Obviously, if my amendments are not supported, I will be determined negative about this law. Amendment 28a refers to sub-paragraph 3, paragraph 4, of article 4, paragraph 4, "The size of the court fee for printing the technical record of the court hearing." Change from 5 bracelets for each sheet of text in paper format A 4 to 2 bracelets for each sheet of text in paper format A 4. Think about it! Five bracelets for one printed sheet! What are you?Oh, my Is it written on gold or what?Oh, my God! Remember, think! Today you made a pension reform last night. Now you, you've done a bit of judicial reform. I warned you, I gave you my alternative project! He said it would be a year. Yesterday was the anniversary of your judicial reform! Today, after the anniversary, do you want to do another one, rob people again?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u192	It's the 28th Amendment of Yuri Carmazin. [[12:12:49]] For -8 No correction supported. Correction of Yuri Carmazin 32nd, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u193	Yuri Carmazin. I don't insist on the 32nd amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u194	Yeah, let's move on then. No, we have to get back to the 6th. Lukyanov, 42nd. Does Lukyanov insist on his amendments? Yeah, Cruise? No, it's not. So, Tolstenko, 51st? No, it's not. Carmazine, 54th. Do you insist, Yuri Anatolyovich? No, it's not. Yes, now we must, dear fellows, return to. Yes, please, I asked. Microphone, your 54th amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u195	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Volodymira Mihajlovich, I propose in the Master's Procedural Code in article 45, "The Court of Justice" after the words "the Supreme Court of Ukraine" to complete with the words "the application for the issuance of an implementing document for the enforcement of the arbitral tribunal's decision, the application for the annulment of the arbitral tribunal" and beyond the text. Why? Because it's also costing and I'd like to write it down as well. Thank you, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u196	Jury Carmazin's 54th amendment to the vote. [[12:14:44]] For the No correction supported The 64th amendment is Yuri Carmazin. Are you insisting on her? No, it's not. Yeah. Dear colleagues, then we go back to 6. Well, 64th, Yuri Carmazin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u197	Yuri Carmazin. I propose that part two of article 10 should be supplemented by a new paragraph of the following sentence: "In the Tax Code of Ukraine, part 9.1 of article 9, add to paragraph 9.1.19 the following: 'The Court's Assembly'. Section 9.2 of article 9 after the words “ruled by customs legislation, unless otherwise provided by this Code” add to the sentence of the following sentence: “The size of the judicial assembly, the order of its payment and the exemption from payment shall be established by law, unless otherwise provided by this Code”. It is vital that this size be established by law, and it is vital that this is recorded in the Ukrainian Tax Code. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u198	I'm betting on the vote of 64th Yuri Carmazin. [[12:16:19]] For the The amendment is unfortunately not supported. Dear colleagues, we agreed to consider Amendment 6. Amendment of 6th Andrey Shevchenk. He argued on this amendment, and Mikola Tomenko argued. I'm going to put the vote on taking into account the amendment that the committee rejected. Please be supportive. Puts to the vote, please note, amendment 6a for account. Please vote. [[12:17:06]] Z-85 Correction not counted. Please, Vitaly Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u199	In principle, we have gone through all the amendments and are willing to vote in favour of the law as a whole. The Supreme Council was not determined on this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u200	I'm betting on a motion for a committee to adopt in the second reading and as a whole as a bill of the draft Law on the Judicial Assembly. [[Registration number 7530]] Please vote. [[12:17:52]] For 238. The law is passed. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now moving on to the second draft of the Act amending article 19 of the Ukrainian Act on the One Customs Tariff. [[on the exemption from payment of goods for the construction and equipping of airports that are subjects of the championship]] Vitaly Hometicnik reports again. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u201	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that the draft law was designed to implement the State Objective Programme for the preparation and implementation of the final part of the Euro-2012 Championship in Ukraine and to reduce the cost of airport construction, especially in the cities where the championship will be held. Therefore, to the second reading, the only thing the committee has proposed is to combine with another law the same authors who make changes to the VAT Code and at the same time to the same positions listed in the bill, the corresponding codes are prescribed, we propose both to reduce the duty and the value added tax.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u202	Well, it's all accounted for, so let's vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u203	Yeah, it's all taken into account. Asking for support in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u204	I'm voting on the second reading proposal and, as a whole, the bill of the bill of registration No. 8062 amending article 19 of the Ukrainian Act on the One Customs Tariff. [[on the exemption from payment of goods for the construction and equipping of airports that are subjects of the championship]] [[Registration number 8062]] Please vote. [[12:19:50]] For the 250. The law is passed. A draft Law amending article 151 of the Ukrainian Land Code on simplifying the granting of land for the use of nagrass is being announced for consideration. The rapporteur is Head of the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations, Gregory Kaletnik. And let's do it as we speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u205	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The committee considered it. Before the second reading, there were only 11 amendments. One amendment to number 7 is rejected, since the proposal contains already valid rules of articles 123 and 149. Therefore, I would like to vote on the bill as a whole as a law.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u206	Correction one is off the table, Sphinx. Does our colleague insist on it? No, it's not. I am voting on the proposal of a second reading committee and, as a whole, a bill amending article 151 of the Ukraine Land Code to simplify the procedure for the granting of land for the needs of the use of nadrama. [[Registration number 8209]] Please vote. [[12:21:14]] For 239. The law is passed. I am announcing the draft Fisheries Act, Industrial Fisheries Act and the Protection of Water Resources Act. [[Registration number 8554]] The reporter is Gregory Mikolaiovich Kaletnik, head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u207	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! In preparation for the bill, 170 proposals were made. These are the offers of Siedelnik, Carmazin, Perestenko, Seminoga, Špenova, Korja. They're all accounted for, only 23 revisions were rejected. The amendments to the Seminogue are rejected because they are, in some cases, taken into account by means of the introduction of the standards laid down in the draft in accordance with the current legislation of Ukraine, in particular the laws on environmental protection, "For the Animal World", "For the Liberation System", "For the National Fisheries Agency of Ukraine" under Presidential Decree No. 484 of 16 April. Most of the proposals made by Deputy Karmazin are included. The proposal for article 23 is rejected only in response to the offer made by the Watchtower Bible and Tract Society of New York, Inc. If anyone insists, please put it in. It was as if everything had been agreed upon.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u208	11th Amendment. Yuri Carmazin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u209	Yuri Carmazin. First of all, I thank the committee for their serious work on the amendments, and many of my amendments have been taken into account. Some minor adjustments may remain. That's why I don't insist on the 11th amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u210	Yeah, let's move on. Amendment 18, Carmazin, do you insist on it? Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u211	Yeah. Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, this is about an amendment that tells us about the processing of water resources, that it's a change in primary properties and so on, dalph. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like you to see what's happening to nature today. Nature's just being destroyed, and we're writing about the processing of water bioresources. There they thought of a pipe, now half a billion are buried there, and half a billion are going to go there, and half a billion are going to go there, and not all the clean water, that's all. So what I'm suggesting is, instead of processing water resources, replace the words "fish processing." And I'm asking the committee head to say right now that we have to do this, that's how we write it down, that's right. I understand that the offer comes from Carmazin and he's in the opposition faction, but nevertheless, it's in God's name. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u212	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. It's not exactly about who it's coming from. You've had a lot of changes. I've already said that most of your amendments are taken into account, and this amendment, it completely changes the point, it narrows down the exact way you get water bioresources and solely by fishing, so we're on the committee, looking, we've come to the conclusion by a majority of the votes that in this case the period is necessary to reject it. So if you insist on confirmation, you can put it to a vote, though.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u213	18th vote. [[12:25:26]] For two. Not supported. 21st, Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u214	Amendment 21 is proposed in paragraph twenty-seventh of article 1 of chapter and the term "industrial fishing" is changed to "fishing". But if the committee has given its explanation, I want to say, Adam Ivanovich, that look, unlike previous laws, here's a justification, I agree with this argument and I don't insist on voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u215	33rd Amendment, Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u216	In the 23rd amendment, I also agree with the rationale.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u217	It's not 23rd, it's y. Ah, 23rd, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u218	I was just talking about the 21st amendment, the 23rd, Adam Ivanovich, to save your time.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u219	And 33rd?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u220	But you want me to read five pages a second? I'm not Timoshenko who offers 4,000 a day to read. Do you understand?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u221	You're two heads taller!
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u222	That's why the 32nd amendment is right there.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u223	Third, third.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u224	In the 39th Amendment, I'm sorry, Adam Ivanovich, I'm proposing something that the Committee would ask me to support right now, and most of you ask for my support, because in article 2, after the words "The Water Code of Ukraine," and it's about legislation on fish farming, to be supplemented by the words "The Law of Ukraine on Fish, Other Water Living Resources and Food Products of Ukraine," and beyond. It doesn't hurt you, and it tells you absolutely what the legislation is about.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u225	39th vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] You're preparing for the 51st amendment. [[12:27:35]] For the Not supported. 51st Amendment of the Deserving Fish of Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u226	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Yuri Carmazin. To your knowledge, I'm not a well-deserved fisherman. When I'm successful, I throw away a stick, I never catch a net, nothing else. So, I suggest, I'm very sorry that you didn't listen to me in the previous article. That there are only three men present from the opposition, other Mercantile interests. Obviously, therefore, Adam Ivanovich, that you took away our rights and lunch too, you took a break from us. So the people apparently went to lunch. In article 6, after the words “State administrations”, I propose to complement with the words “the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, district, Kiev and Sevastopol City, district, rural, rural, urban, district council”. [[This is about government administration and regulation in the field of fish farming.]] Let me add this to it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u227	51st vote. [[12:29:02]] For the Yuri Anatolyovich, will you not continue to insist on your amendments? Oh, no? Carmazine's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u228	I, Yuri Carmazin, am now talking to my colleague Lukyanov about these changes that have just been said. And I still have some adjustments I should have said. But in general, I want to say that in this committee, you can learn how to draw conclusions, reason when they refuse, and that's a lot different from what we've seen today. That's why I think the law can be passed. I will not insist on all other amendments, Adam Ivanovich. And you're going to give me time for another bill that I just saved, one tenth gives me time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u229	Yuri Anatolyovich, thank you. I'll give you two minutes. I'm talking to the witnesses. 170th Amendment, Perestenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u230	Ah, the microphone. Thank you. Dear Adam Ivanovich, when printing a comparative table, the technical amendment of the Prestenko rejected, needs to be supported. I'd like to ask the hall to support the 170th amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u231	I'm voting on a motion to support the 170th amendment of colleague Perestenko. Please vote. [[12:30:53]] For 251 Supported. So, dear fellows, we've been through all the adjustments. It is possible to put to the vote a proposal for the adoption of the Fisheries Act, industrial fisheries and the protection of water resources. [[Registration number 84540]] Please vote. [[12:31:29]] For 254 The law is passed. Dear colleagues! I think we made a good gift for a professional fishing festival that will be celebrated next Sunday. Thank you, committee and Yuri Anatoliyovich for understanding that we need to adopt the law more quickly. We must now consider the question of the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the jurisdiction of the courts of commerce with the participation of the bodies of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine. [[Registration number 7143]] Myrrhichenko, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u232	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! The point is that this is an extremely important bill and it requires more reconciliation of positions between all stakeholders. So I'd like to move this bill to the next session. We'll agree on this time and I think we'll make a balanced decision then. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u233	Yeah, no objection? 7143 is moved to the seventh session, for the next session. We're looking at a draft of the Oil Commutation Act. [[second reading]] [[Registration number 7484]] Hometicist Vitaly Yuriovich. Yes, Vitaly Yuriovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u234	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues, allow me to allow the position of the Committee on Finance and Banking, tax and customs policy on the draft Oil Products Prevention Act, which we are considering today in our second reading. The bill came with proposals from legislators, members of national parliaments. In fact, these are basically the proposals of the author of the Poljančić project, the national deputy of Poljančić. Thus, for the second reading, the text is prepared and we are ready to consider it in the second reading and in general. Practically all the proposals are included here.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u235	Yes, the honourable colleagues who have made the amendments and they are not included insist. I can't see, though.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u236	I have a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u237	Now, Yuri Anatolyevich, now, Yuri Anatolyovich. I can't see. Who insists that we consider these adjustments? Also, no. Please, Carmazine's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u238	Adam Ivanovich, well, this law also goes beyond 116 Rules. And I would like the chairman of the committee to say right now, what was the point of making changes to articles that had not been changed in the first reading? And that is why my amendment, article 1, paragraph 1, should be deleted, i.e. I would like you, Sir Adam Ivanovich, to be interested and to see why we are entering standards that were not considered. This is a gross, brutal violation of article 116 of the Regulation Law, Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u239	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. I thank you for your vigilance, and I thank you for your vigilance, and I warn the head of the committee and whoever is in the rostrum, and the next, let's still be more conscientious about 116 articles here. There are no comments. So I, my honourable colleagues, put to the vote a proposal for the adoption of the Oil Commutation Act. [[Registration number 7484]] Please vote. [[12:36:07]] For 277 Thank you. The law is passed. Dear colleagues, we need to consider the second reading of Bill 7,293. This is a draft of the Tourism Act related to Euro-2012. [[on the obligation to establish categories of tourism infrastructure objects]] I invite you to Zac's word, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u240	Respectable Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues, is the purpose of drafting this bill to facilitate the categorization of hotels and other tourist infrastructures. In discussing the bill, the Committee concluded that article 18 of the law relating to standardization and certification and was deleted on first reading should be left unchanged by our colleagues. This article seeks to address such an important issue as security in tourism. Security in the provision of services is a priority for the provision of services, and security in the provision of services is the responsibility of the certification process. The Committee has also received many requests not to withdraw from the Tourism Act article 18. In conclusion, the adoption of the bill is due to the need to put in place effective mechanisms with the exercise of the right of consumers to reliable information about services and protection against unfair competition. Please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u241	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Here the amendment of the second Wonderland was taken into account by the committee to exclude article 18. There is a suggestion to place this amendment on confirmation and leave the 18th article. Leave it. Please vote for confirmation, no confirmation. A second article will be put to the vote for confirmation. But please don't confirm it. The second amendment shall be voted on. Mikhail Vasilovich. [[12:38:23]] Z-70. Thus, the second amendment Amazing about the deletion of 18 articles is not supported. Article 18 remains in the body of the law. Yes, dear fellows. The rest of the amendments, no one insists? They're mostly accounted for here. That's why I'm voting on a proposal for the adoption of an entire Act amending the Ukrainian Tourism Act on the obligation to establish a category of tourism infrastructure objects with the inclusion of article 18 of the Act. Please vote. 18th, yeah. Please vote. [[12:39:13]] For 273 Thank you, the law has been passed. Dear colleagues! In order to clean up the experiment, we need to make one more decision with you. Yesterday, when we considered the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Budget Code and some other legislation on harmonization with the provisions of the laws in force, the bill was promptly, as was the case under article 48 of the Rules, and a draft regulation by Yuri Karmazin was made. [[This is registration number 8545.]] Jury Carmazin said that there had been a violation of Reglamen in order to revoke the decision to vote on the law. Yuri Anatoliyovich, you have the wish to present whether we will vote on yesterday's Bill 8545 on your motion to annul the decision under the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u242	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I registered a letter before. a deputy's request to the Head of the Supreme Council to take steps to restore the constitutional rights of Ukrainian national deputies to carry out legislative activities in connection with the failure of the Head of the Supreme Council to comply with the requirements of the Rules when adopted in the second reading and in the whole of the draft Act amending the Code of Budgets of Ukraine and certain other legislative acts of Ukraine to comply with the provisions of the laws in force. [[This is 8545.]] Dear National MPs, I remind you, those who may not remember that under this law now that has been passed in contravention of the Rules. Under this law, MPs are deprived of the rights provided for in the Constitution. I've shown that, contrary to the Rules of Procedure Act, where it is written that we should be given out and be familiar with the materials not later than 10 days, it is the requirements of part one of article 117 of the Rules Act, and it violated the right of the legislative initiative of the national MPs, created conditions for part-time study and consideration of amendments to the national MPs. And despite manifest violations of the law, the Head put this bill to the vote for adoption on second reading and in general. Therefore, the decision of the Supreme Council on adoption in the second reading and in general, I believe, has been taken with gross violation of its acceptance procedure. At the plenary meeting, I asked the presiding officer to stop violating the rules of the Rules, but they did not. Ladies and gentlemen, if we are now. I have asked the Head of the Supreme Council, on the basis of the law of the 48th Rules, not to sign this law and therefore today I propose that you withdraw the vote in favour of this law as one that has been adopted with a grave violation of the requirements of the Constitution, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, for the first time. And secondly, as one that violates the constitutional rights of national MPs, and that means the people of Ukraine, which we represent with you in this session hall because you have no right to amend the second reading, cannot do so to the committees. The Budget Act is terrible things. Parliamentarianism has never come to this. I'm asking you, I'm turning to the wheel now from the majority, because the opposition today is in court, you know what's going on there, and in order to be at peace in the state, the state has.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u243	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. Give me my papers. Dear colleagues, I get the point. That's why, with your permission, I'm putting to the vote a draft decree repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 7 July on second reading adoption and, as a whole, the bill of the draft Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for 2011." I'd like to make up my mind. [[12:44:16]] For-12. Sadly, though Yuri Anatoliyovich is right in many ways. And I, using what we've touched on this subject, honourable colleagues, especially committee leaders, I urge you, please, to intervene less in the Rules and in what belongs to the Supreme Council. If we want to be so good for the Cabinet of Ministers and give it all to him, let's make changes to the Constitution about what Parliament doesn't need, let the Cabinet of Ministers decide. Because committees, obviously, ministries and departments are better suited, they're easier at working with committees than with the Supreme Council, and the committees are very much able to do so. It was the last time we allowed anything similar to the Rules. Let's move on to the re-examination section with the proposals of the President of Ukraine. The Ukrainian Amnesty Act is being obeyed in 2011 with the President's proposals. [[Registration number 7400]] There's an offer, my dear fellows, to listen to it under a reduced procedure and ask for two minutes of the reporter, and we'll be able to determine. No objections? I'm putting this motion to a vote. [[12:45:50]] For 229 Supported. Please, the representative of President Miroshnichenko Yuri Romanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u244	Dear voters, dear colleagues! Yuri Miroshnichenko, representative of the President of Ukraine at the Supreme Council of Ukraine. You, dear colleagues, know the subject of this bill because amnesty for 2011 was approved by our joint decision with you. And this law came for the President's signature, but there are a number of legal circumstances that have made it impossible for the President to sign this law without taking into account some of the comments that I hope the Supreme Council will make today. These are both procedural moments and those related to material rights that are at times contradictory, and at times they are such that they violate the rights of our citizens. So the President has formulated very specifically what articles of this law we need to improve with you, and then amnesty in 2011 will be implemented as another step towards humanizing the life of Ukrainian society and in the area of the penitentiary system. Thank you for your attention. So that we don't waste our time, I suggest we go to the President's proposals and vote. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u245	Thank you. Dear colleagues, from the committee – Malishev Vladimir Stepanovic. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u246	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! Three weeks ago, I reported the law, so there is no need to repeat it. I would like to say that amnesty will be applied primarily to pregnant women, minors and the elderly. Let's move on. I want to warn everyone about ours. Not to warn, but to tell them to calm down: Amnesty will not be applied to particularly dangerous criminals. Our committee has considered all the President's proposals and has agreed with them and requests the Supreme Council to adopt the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u247	Ladies and gentlemen, the committee proposes to consider the President's proposals. I'm making the President's first proposal. Please be supportive. [[12:49:03]] For 263 Presidential amendment supported. Thus, honourable colleagues, the President's second amendment is to vote. Please vote. [[12:49:30.]] For 259. Supported. The President's third amendment. Please vote. [[12:49:49]] For 258. Supported. And the President's 4th amendment, please vote. [[12:50:06]] For 262 Supported. So we have the reasons, the honourable colleagues, all the President's amendments are supported. I'm voting on the proposal for the adoption of the Amnesty Act in 2011, taking into account the President's proposals. [[Registration number 7400]] Please vote. [[12:50:44]] For 274 Copy that. The question is: The Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts on State Procurement with Proposals by the President of Ukraine since 31 December 2010. [[Registration number 7532]] Miroshenko is a reporter. There's an offer: a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[12:51:25]] For 228 Supported. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u248	Dear voters, dear colleagues! Yuri Miroshnichenko is a representative of the President of Ukraine on the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, this is a similar bill. You know how much effort, intellectual, emotional, we've spent adopting a law on government procurement, and it's a law that the Ukrainian state needs. That's why the President studied him very carefully and those norms that violated the Constitution and led to internal disagreements, he isolated us, he drew our attention. I hope that we will now consider them and, if we support the President's proposals, we will pass this law. I also ask you not to waste time on long speeches, but to move on to the president's amendments. Thank you. More specifically, suggestions.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u249	Yes, it's from the committee, Olexy Vitaliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u250	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! Ukraine’s Act of Amendment to Certain Legislative Assets of Ukraine on State Procurement Number 7532 was adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on May 17. On June 14, the President of Ukraine returned the project with his comments to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The President's representative at the Supreme Council of Ukraine made quite a comment on the content of these observations, as well as on the positions on the participation of state-owned enterprises or which have a bearing on the State in terms of insurance and other positions. After considering the proposals by the President of Ukraine for the bill, the committee at its meeting on 5 July this year decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that the draft should be adopted as a whole, taking into account the proposals made by the President of Ukraine. An amendment table is added. In total, there are 16 presidential proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u251	Yes, Your Honor, the report is completed. So the President's 1st amendment is about voting. Please be supportive. [[12:54:09]] For the 250. Supported. The 2nd amendment shall be voted on, please vote. [[12:54:25]] For 254 Supported. The third amendment shall be voted on. Please vote. [[12:54:42]] For 247 Supported. The 4th amendment shall be voted on. [[12:54:59]] For 255 255, supported. 5th Amendment. Please vote. [[12:55:16]] For 249 Supported. The 6th amendment shall be voted on. [[12:55:34]] For 256 Supported. The 7th amendment shall be voted on. Please vote. [[12:55:51]] For 256 Supported. The 8th amendment shall be voted on. Please vote. [[12:56:08]] For 258. Supported. The 9th amendment shall be put to the vote. Vote. [[12:56:26]] For 257 Supported. The 10th amendment shall be voted on. [[12:56:42]] For 258. The 11th amendment shall be voted on. [[12:56:58]] For 259. Supported. The 12th amendment shall be voted on. Please vote. [[12:57:15.]] For 258. Supported. The 13th amendment shall be voted on. [[12:57:33]] For 259. The 14th amendment shall be voted on. Please vote. [[12:57:50]] For 256 Supported. The 15th amendment shall be voted on. Please vote. [[12:58:07]] For 259. Supported. The 16th amendment shall be voted on. [[12:58:24]] For 262 Yes, the amendment is supported. That's how all the president's amendments are taken into account. I am voting on the proposal to adopt the Ukrainian Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts on public procurement, taking into account the President's proposals. [[Registration number 7532]] Please vote. [[12:58:58]] For 263 The law is passed. Thank you. Let's move on to the last chapter of our chapter -- those are the bills in the first reading. A draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine on the settlement of the debt for electricity is under consideration. [[Registration number 8717]] There's a proposal for a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[12:59:34]] For 224 Offer supported. The rapporteur is a member of the Committee on Fuel and Energy Complex Głushchenko Igor Mikolaajovic, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u252	Thank you. Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! The draft law under consideration proposes the introduction of a debt-solving mechanism between companies in the fuel and energy complex, which is about 500 million dollars, by cancelling the debt chain: the casinos of enterprises, including the casinos of enterprises that were in the same state as on 1 January 2011, further energy-efficient companies, DP Energorinoc, producers of electricity, government agencies from the reserve of Ukraine. Debts in question were created for electricity consumption by casino companies due to their underfunding. An analysis of the possibility of repayment of the outstanding debt did not give any reason to expect that it would be reimbursed with cash, which was the basis for the drafting of the bill. As a State control mechanism, it is envisaged that the amount of debt write-offs will be subject to approval by the Interministerial Commission to pay off the debt owed to enterprises of the fuel and energy complex in order to prevent a deterioration in the financial situation of electricity producers during the anticipated write-off of their debt to the Ukrainian State Reserve Agency for past periods of fuel, which is restructured by 2023 in accordance with government decisions. The PEC committee, after discussion at its meeting, decided to recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt the bill in the first reading and as a whole as a law, and asked for support. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u253	Yes, thank you. The report is complete. Have a seat. It was also a report from the committee. Aren't we going to discuss this? No, it's not. Then I'm proposing, if no one objects, the adoption of the Law on Amendments to Some of Ukraine's Laws on Settlement of Electricity Debt. [[Registration number 8717]]
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u254	In general. In general.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u255	No, no, in general, I deny it. Adam Ivanovich, in general, I object. [[13:02:26]] For 228
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u256	For 228. The law is passed.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u257	Adam Ivanovich, give me your word, it's illegal.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u258	Yuri, I'm going after the next lady. The question is, the draft law on introduction.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u259	You can't do that, well, you're abusing it.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u260	Yuri Anatolyevich. The draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2011 is being complied with. [[Registration number 8718]]
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u261	Adam Ivanovich, you abuse yours.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u262	Please support the proposal for a reduced procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u263	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u264	Yuri, you're absolutely right, but now the train's gone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u265	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u266	We can't cancel the decision of the Supreme Council. Thank you. [[13:03:10]] For 223 Yes. Report to the People's Deputy Glushchenko. Prepare Baranov.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u267	Adam Ivanovich!
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u268	Turn on the Turntable microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u269	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. The bill is designed to ensure that energy-generating companies pay off their debt to the state-guaranteed budget and pay for the use of sub-credits for the implementation of the electricity market development project, which was foreseen in 2010. The purpose of the bill is to settle the issue of the repayment by energy-generating companies of the specified sub-credit debt to the government of 162 million dollars, as well as the recalculation of these funds by coal enterprises under the budget programme for the restructuring of coal and peat-producing industries to pay off the debt for electricity consumption. The implementation of the draft law will allow partial settlement of the issue of repayment by energy-generating companies of debt to the government for sub-credits, as well as to coal undertakings of debt for electricity consumption. The committee's decision is to accept it as a law as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u270	Valery Baranov, head of the Budget Committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u271	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! The Committee on Budgetary Questions today considered Bill No. 8718 at its meeting. The bill proposes an increase of 162 million dollars in the budget allocations of a special State budget fund under the coal and oil restructuring programme of the Ministry of Energy. The source of additional expenditure is the cost of the salaries of energy-generating companies for the provision of state guarantees and for the use of sub-credits for the implementation of the electricity market development project. It should be noted that the payment of State guarantees to the income of the State Budget Special Fund is contrary to article 29, part two, of the Budget Code, paragraph 39. According to which such a fee is included in the income of the general fund of the state budget. In addition, the increase in revenue for the proposed sources is unfounded and unrealistic, since, according to the Treasury's operational data, 6 months of the current year, the plans for such sources were not implemented and were 65 percent. The bill was drafted without taking into account the changes to the State Budget Act for this year, introduced by the Law of June 14. Thus, the adoption of Bill N 8718 will lead to a failure to implement the planned indicators, to balance the income and expenditure of the general and special state budget funds. The Chief Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council, in its conclusion, points out that it is necessary to draw the Government's conclusion on this bill and to make its observations. The Ministry of Finance does not support this bill and makes a similar observation to it. To sum up, let's say that the adoption of the bill as proposed will lead to a budget balance. In conclusion, today the Committee on Budgetary Questions has decided to recommend to the Supreme Council that the bill be rejected. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u272	Ladies and gentlemen, do you understand that we're going to make a decision? () [[B in m in s a l in]] No, well, I mean, go on making a decision? Please sign in. Names of the national MPs, please. Vladimir Caplienko and Stanislaw Arzewityn.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u273	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! When we met this bill, we hesitated, which way we would go. We certainly support the conclusion of the head of the profile committee that article 116 of the Constitution is being violated, which provides for a mandatory conclusion by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine regarding the impact on the state budget this year. This, by the way, contradicts article 27 of the Codex Budget. We also point out that there is no financial and economic justification for this bill, and that there are no calculations of those volumes in the project, no expenditure on budgeting, which is called the "Restructuring of Coal and Torfoding Industry in Applied Volumes", which contradicts articles 91 of part three of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. But given that this bill is needed by the state, and given that these remarks can be corrected for second reading, we will vote in favour of adopting it as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u274	Stanislaw Arzewittin is referring the right to speak to Andrew Parbia, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u275	Mr. Chairman, given that there is no "Virgin" today, I ask your permission to make a brief statement. Declaration on the creation of an interfractional union to support independence and democracy in Belarus We, the Ukrainian National Deputies, in accordance with article 60 of the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, announce the creation of an interfractional parliamentary association to support independence and democracy in Belarus. The formation of this union is due to our concern at the dramatic deterioration of democracy and the maintenance of social freedoms in neighboring and friendly Belarus. In particular, it is the brutal persecution of political opposition, the imprisonment of political opponents, and the mass arrests of public activists. () [[B in m in s a l in]] The application was signed: "Our Ukraine" – Parubia, Skutjak, Karpuk, Stojko, Kulczynski.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u276	Please turn off the microphone. Dear colleagues, well, we don't have time for applications, I beg you. Thank you. It's the factions. Kirilo Kulikov, a line, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u277	We, Vladimir Mikhailovich, and yesterday you stood up for the rule of law by the Committee of Budgets, and that's true. Today we are adopting the law that has been passed to the deputies today, and today at the time of the meeting of the Supreme Council this law has been considered. The negative solution is that we can't make a decision that contradicts both the Budget Code and the logic of the policies that aim at saving the budget. And now what we do, we increase our debt once more and we break all our obligations. We cannot adopt this law either in the first or on the basis of the law. It contradicts both legislation and the logic of economic policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u278	Dear colleagues, this bill is in the Supreme Council for 15 days, so you're not yesterday. The committee has made its recommendations, taking into account what has been discussed, we will make decisions. Dear colleagues, the committee is proposing to reject the bill. The board commented on the bill. At the same time, in accordance with the Supreme Council of Ukraine regulations, I am voting on the proposal to adopt the bill as the basis of draft law, registration number 8718. Please vote. [[13:11:24]] For 236 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, well, we've already taken this as a base, and it's only about numbers, if I don't read it in the first, the second reading, so you can't stop it. So I'm voting on the approval of the draft Law registration number 8718. Please vote. [[13:12:02]] For 235 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I suggest you consider the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on State Procurement. [[on oil and petroleum products]] [[Registration number 8727]] Short cut, huh? I'm voting on a motion to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. [[13:12:37]] For 229 Decision taken. The rapporteur is Ukraine's national deputy, Irina Gorin. The focal point is the head of the committee of Alexy Plotnikov.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u279	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! The essence of this law is as follows. You all know the situation we have in the gas market. And we are well aware of the difficult situation that the Government has faced, and we have had to take a number of measures to coordinate and lower prices in such a way as to ensure that both the seedling and, of course, the cost of gas and transport lies in the cost of any product in order to lower those prices. The Government had dropped excise duties on petrol, and the Government had negotiated with oil traders and representatives who were trading in the petrol market in order to keep and lower prices. It's not market mechanisms, it's complicated. Therefore, our proposal is that, under the Public Procurement Act, NAC Naftogaz should withdraw oil and petroleum products in order to make the State an effective and strong player in this market. We all understand the fluctuations in oil sales: the quotations change every day. And by using the Public Procurement Act, 75 days in full procedure, if the purchase of one buyer is 40 days, the State cannot buy oil and be a competitive player to private companies that have been found to be simply holding a cartel agreement at the moment, and the Antimonopoly Committee has identified it, punished it, but the situation has not changed much. That's why I agree. There, literally, the two proposals contained in this law will allow NAC Naftogaz to buy at a cost this year, in accordance with the agreement between the President of Azerbaijan and our Ukraine, up to five.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u280	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u281	Up to five million tons of oil to process, to recharge, to fill the state capacity, the Lisican factory will be this size, and jobs will be regulated by the State, not by hand, but by market forces, with cheap petrol, to regulate the market for oil and petroleum products. Our proposal is to enact the law on first reading and generally as a law in order to resolve this issue as quickly as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u282	Alexy Plotnikov is the head of the Economic Policy Committee subcommittee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u283	The honourable head of the National Parliament, the Committee on Economic Policy at its meeting on 5 July 2011, reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law on National Procurement Act "On State Procurement" submitted by the People's Deputies. [[on oil and petroleum products]] [[Registration number 8727]] The purpose of the bill is to amend the Act on State Procurement. [[on oil and petroleum products]] There are problems that arise in public procurement of crude oil and petroleum products, and they prevent the involvement of systemic investors in the development of Ukraine's industry. In view of what has been said, the Committee on Economic Policy has decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of the bill as a basis and as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u284	Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss matters?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u285	If anyone insists, sign up. Well, it won't, then we'll see, I'll hear, we'll try. Names of the national MPs, please. Katerina Vaschuk, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u286	Dear colleagues, I wanted to support the drafter. After all, it's such a hot time and a harvest, and this bill is going to give a good signal that prices don't go up in the oil market. People complain about prices if they grow. The government has now stabilized the situation more or less, and this law will only help to keep this situation going. That is why the faction supports and we call on the Supreme Council to support as well. It's the law for people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u287	Ladies and gentlemen, the committee is proposing to adopt the bill as a basis as a whole. No warning? I'm voting on this proposal to amend the Ukrainian State Procurement Act. [[Bill No. 8727]] [[on oil and petroleum products]] Please vote. [[13:18:11]] For 265 The law is passed. Dear colleagues, it is now proposed that you consider the draft Act amending the Code of Taxation of Ukraine. [[on the temporary reduction of excise duty rates]] On this point, I'm going to ask Vitaly Homettinic to provide information, because the need for this law is no longer in place, draft laws.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u288	Dear colleagues, it's about leaving reduced rates of excise duty on the petroleum products we've been taking temporarily and operating for three months until August 1. In this law, it's about the postponement of January 1st of the following year. But the same proposal we took into account in draft Law 8217 and agreed with the government that the reduced supply of oil would only work until September 1st. So this question is settled, and the request for this project to be removed accordingly.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u289	Dear colleagues, the proposal has been brought to your attention, and it refers to the removal of the bill's registration number 8731. I'm voting on this proposal. Please vote. [[13:19:51]] For 261 Decision taken. I am announcing for consideration the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on joint activities. [[Registration number 8721]] I'm betting on a motion from the MPs to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[13:20:24]] For 228 Decision taken. The reporter is Kseniya Lapina. The narrator is Yuri Voropeyev.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u290	Thank you, Your Honor. This law is actually very concise and, above all, it's aimed at unlocking the work of the Law that we've all adopted here, "The State Private Partnership," which is now effectively blocked by some of the provisions of the Law on the Management of Objects of State Property." What is being corrected? Several positions are being adjusted. The first corrects the position on the need to approve the default joint activity agreement, which is actually impossible today and stops the possibility of involving systemic ones, I stress, not adventurous ones, but systemic investors especially in the complex and important area for Ukraine, such as oil and gas production, which we understand today, how important for Ukraine. Because a typical agreement is not possible on all issues of joint activity and on all matters of public private partnership. That's why we're proposing to delete it. To ensure that no one thinks that this could lead to any abuse, I remind myself of the decision to work together, and the conclusion of a treaty is made not by the owner but by the governing body, that is, by the government body. And the Cabinet of Ministers has every opportunity to control this government body on the basis of the validity and public interest in the conclusion of this treaty. And it's much better to do this without the approval of a standard contract that will just limit the possibilities. The second point that we stress, and where we ask for immediate consideration of scientific expertise, refers to 18 sub-paragraphs "m" of the law, which is probably due to a mistake, is that the conduct of auctions involving investors by state enterprises. Dear colleagues, something is being sold at auctions. You can't get a partner on the auction. Of course, the partner participates in the competition. So we're proposing to support the editorial that was here, the only observation of scientific expertise on this subject, the holding of competitions with involvement.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u291	Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u292	And I'm literally done. As authors, we have yet to amend 141 articles of the Ukrainian Code of Masters, but after having consulted with the government, in particular with representatives of the Ministry of Economic Development, we as authors are taking this amendment down. And we ask you to do that, because then there's no more comments left, and we've taken into account the scientific expertise, the only observation, the adoption of this law in the first reading and in general the revision of the Code of Master. That is, only the changes to the Ukrainian Act on State Property Management. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u293	Thank you. Yuri Voropeiev, deputy head of the Economic Policy Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u294	Dear colleagues, this bill has been considered by our committee on 5 July this year. And the Committee's decision is unanimous. Recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt the bill. However, given the findings of the expert management, they are carefully considered on the Committee, we consider them to be objective, correct and, taking into account the comments of the expert management, to adopt it as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u295	Do you have everyone? Thank you, sit down. Just a minute. I would like to ask the Deputy Minister of Bandour. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u296	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! With regard to the proposals made by the National Deputy of Kseniya Lápina to the Ukrainian Act on the Management of Objects of State Property, part two, paragraph 2, of article 13. We suggest that this paragraph should be worded as follows: "During joint action agreements, the size of a share of state-owned enterprises, institutions and organizations, as well as companies in statutory capital, whose share of the State exceeds 50 per cent, should be at least 50 per cent of the total assets of the participants in the joint venture." Thank you for your attention. Last but not least, we agree with the proposals.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u297	Dear colleagues, no objection to this amendment? The author doesn't object to the committee? No, it's not. Dear colleagues, with this addition in mind, can it be put to the vote, as recommended by the committee, adopted on the basis of the bill as a whole? I don't see any objections. I am voting on this proposal, namely: acceptance as a basis and as a whole, including the clarifications and additions that the Deputy Minister has just made and agreed with this addition, the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on joint action. [[Registration number 8721]] Please vote. [[13:25:52]] For 251 The law is passed. Thank you. Dear National Deputies! I am announcing a draft Act on the characteristics of leases or concessions of buildings of the fuel and energy complex that are owned by the State. [[Registration number 8705]] I'm betting on a motion that just came out of the room to discuss the issue of a reduced procedure. [[13:26:27]] For 234 Decision taken. The rapporteur is National Deputy Igor Głushchenko, and Victor Turmanov will speak from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u298	Thank you. Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! For your consideration, a redraft of the Ukrainian Rent or Concession Act is proposed. [[Registration number 8705]] Imported by the Ukrainian National Deputies, members of the Committee on Fuel and Energy Complex and Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security by Mikola Martinenko, Igor Gluschenk and Paul Korz. The purpose of this bill is to increase the competitiveness of coal as a commodity in the internal and external markets, to improve the financial and economic situation of fuel-energy enterprises. It will help reduce the cost of the state budget for coal industry, investment and technical restocking. The project aims to raise social standards, organise wages for miners, avoid debt and pay off existing debt without involving funds from the state budget. The bill, which is proposed for adoption in the repetitive first reading, also contains the following changes. On the committee at the time of discussion on some of the positions had been in the text of the draft law, the lease date was proposed to be written from 2 to 25 years. I'm putting this proposal out of my voice under the transcript. And the second. The changes made are the effective date, which is the law that enters into force not 30 days from the date of its publication but 60 days later. It's a wish, a committee decision. Please accept this law as a basis and as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u299	Thank you. Victor Ivanovich Turmanov, from the committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u300	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues, I would like to inform you that the past five years have shown once again that, in reviewing the budget as a whole throughout the country, it means, with regard to the financing of the coal sector, there has been a constant lack of funding for the coal industry in recent years. Therefore, the President's proposed coal reform programme, for the first time in this room today, is a bill that is very important to the coal industry. We are here both foreclosure of investors, rights and responsibilities, and for labour groups. I want to say that this bill is very much needed, because we already have these processes, there are businesses that are leased, and there are enterprises that are concessional. Therefore, in order to legitimize this process, we have worked out this bill. The Ministry of Energy, the coal industry supports the bill and the Government also supports it. Therefore, in order to correct both the financial and economic state of the coal sector, I would ask all deputies today to support this law and to vote, both in first reading and in general, both in law. It's very important and necessary for the coal industry. The committee's decision today was made by my colleague. Please support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u301	Dear colleagues who insist on speaking up, please sign up. Well, maybe she insists, well, I don't know. Please. Taras Cranville.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u302	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, national MPs, I will not take up much of the time today, as soon as the session is over, I just want to remind you that our parliamentary group belongs to those who never vote in favour of the bill until they are thoroughly analyzed and concluded that they are useful. For the first time, we refused to vote in favour of this bill when you recall that it came from nowhere. Today we have studied it in detail, and we can say that Ukraine really needs it. It takes away a whole series of colossal problems that lie on the state today, on the constant infusion into the coal sector, it allows it to translate into new normal forms of governance and create that system of administration, a management that will really be effective. So our MP group is calling on everyone to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u303	Yes, Alexander Pecklesenko, one minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u304	Respectable voters! Dear colleagues! We must clearly understand that coal for Ukraine is simply not just a useful fossil. This is what enables hundreds of thousands of people to work and budget dozens of cities. Therefore, today's bill is the first bill in the system that will truly allow reforms to start. So this bill, I repeat, is the first. We are confident that similar philosophy will not only address coal-related issues. But metallurgy, aviation. We therefore ask for support for this bill, which is a locomotive for the economy.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u305	Dear National Deputies! I'm voting on the proposal, if there's no objection, with the clarification and correction that the reporter made. On the adoption as a basis and as a whole of the draft Law, on the characteristics of leases or concessions of buildings of the fuel and energy complex that are owned by the State. [[Registration number 8705]] [[13:33:23]] For 251 The law is passed. Dear National Deputies! A draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. [[on improving the legal regulation of the implementation of housing rights of residents]] [[Registration number 8678]] I'm voting on a motion to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[13:34:00]] For 238. Decision taken. The rapporteur is the Deputy Head of the Igor Lisov Committee. Where's the reporter? Please, Garbage. Mayo, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u306	The draft of the Ukrainian Law was developed by the Ukrainian National Deputies, members of the Professional Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, with the participation of representatives of the Ministry, Minfin, the Fund of Holding, the Kyiv Government, and a number of social organizations created by the residents of the hostels. The need for adoption of the bill is due to the difficulty of implementing the right of residents to privatize their dwellings in accordance with the Ukrainian Housing Act. The bill is aimed at substantially improving legal regulation in this area by making the necessary changes to the Housing Code of the Ukrainian and Russian Soviet Socialist Republic, the Ukrainian Housing Rights Act, and the Ukrainian Housing Fund Privatization Act. The bill is proposed in particular. First. To clarify that the privatization of housing in hostels applies to all accommodations. [[residential rooms, residential blocks, residential sections]] The other one. Increase the duration of the transfer of dormitories to utility property from 3 to 6 years. Third. Continue the moratorium on the eviction of residents from hostels and the alienation of hostels, regardless of the form of ownership, from 3 to 6 years of age. Change the principle of privatization of housing in hostels that have been transferred to statutory funds of organizations created in the process of privatization or corporateization of former state and municipal enterprises, namely: to establish that if a State owns more than 50 per cent of the statutory capital of such organizations, garrisons are removed from statutory capital and transferred to municipal property on a non-compensation basis; (b) To establish that if a State owns less than 55 percent or does not have a share in the statutory capital of such organizations, the hostels are removed from statutory capital and transferred to the property of the territorial communities on a compensatory basis. In doing so, compensation to the legal owners of such hostels may not exceed the size calculated with regard to the residual cost of the hostels.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u307	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u308	according to the order approved by the government. The adoption of the bill will create conditions for the realization of housing rights for some 400,000 citizens who do not have other housing and who are forced to live in hostels and will significantly reduce social tensions in society. Please support the adoption of this bill in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u309	Dear colleagues, who insists on the performance? Please sign in. Please sign up. Names of the national deputies. Sloppy, faction of the Party of the Regions, Kulikov, then Vladimir Yavorowski. Slippery, please. He's refusing. Kulikov Kirilo.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u310	Thank you very much, dear colleagues. I think that the adoption of this bill can really have an impact on many issues. The State has now privatized many objects, such as in my hometown of Kiev. Many hostels, where people have lived for decades, have families, and have children. A new owner comes and throws these people out into the yard. So there is a question of resolving this problem. I have only one question for the authors of this bill. Is this a matter for those innkeepers, those objects that have already been privatized, who have passed the procedure? This isn't just about new ones? If this applies to all objects, it is the right decision, the national decision, and let it be made as quickly as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u311	Vladimir Yavorowski. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u312	Dear colleagues, our constituents! It's a very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much. I personally work in Kirovgrad on the street of Heroov Stalingrad, 13, which was once owned by a radio plant. For example, this hostel was not subject to privatization, but in the first wave of privatization, the hostels were not privatized but were later simply falsified. And today is really the darkness of people who don't have anything else in their lives, just this one room in the dormitory, and they're, let's say, completely unforgivingly thrown out of there. Because, although this bill has been introduced, let's say yes, a political opponent, we absolutely support it, because it's fair, it's smart. The only thing I'm afraid is that if it's true, because the law doesn't have a reverse force of action, I'm just afraid that everything is essential that could have been stolen and thrown out of the dormitories, it's already done. Because of this, we might want to think some way about it. I understand how.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u313	Oh, no. Well, the Dry One raises his hand, he's got one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u314	Thank you. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I have a specific proposal. Honorable colleagues who spoke to me properly set the subject. That's how I explain it. This law is taking place in the middle of that, remember, a previous law that you and I have long accepted and passed here in the hall, allowing residents of these hostels to privatize their rooms. But what happened? This division of "legal" and "legal residents of the dormitory" led to the fact that prior to the privatization of rooms in the dormitory people began to be evicted without housing according to the decisions of the courts. This law solves this problem, in the statutory fund, and not in the statutory fund of the dormitory, it is passed on to the territorial community with the possibility of people living there privatizing and thus making decisions about the future of life. This is not only in Kirovograd, but also in Zaporozhye, especially where working villages are located. So I ask, Vladimir Mikhailovich, to lay down this law for voting in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u315	Vladimir Kaplienko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u316	Thank you very much, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I was very eager to speak on this bill. The MP's "Reforms for the Future" does not even fluctuate today about what this bill requires, little support from Mr. Suhogo's initiative to accept it as a whole. I, you know, recently came back from Zaporozhye and I want to tell you that what I saw there about the violation of the rights of those people who live in hostels goes beyond anything I've ever seen in my life. I think that this bill essentially solves two issues, the main ones themselves -- the continuation of the moratorium by 2014, which makes it impossible at all to abuse in this direction, and the second one -- that eventually through the transfer of shelters to the territorial communities, we are, in principle, allowing the realization of rights to those people who do not have their own home today. [[I would like to remind you that on September 1st of this year, the rights of the residents of the hostels come out.]] We will support both the first reading and the basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u317	Vladimir Leschchenko, right? Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u318	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, distinguished voters! The Communists support the issue of improving the legal regulation of housing rights of residents. This question has long been out of date. We're looking at a bunch of voters who don't have the rights that we're talking about. And those newly discovered owners are actually throwing the residents out of the dormitory, or they think it's their stepfather. But I also wanted to pay attention to the following. The point is that statutory funds, parts of closed or open stock companies have also been made available to prominent housing units. So this is a question that needs to be addressed. I propose this bill to be passed today as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u319	Ladies and gentlemen, have you all spoken? I want to remind you once again that the committee actually asked for a foundation so that it would be able to work on it so that we wouldn't get a veto. So let's hurry here slowly to have a result. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm voting on the proposal of the adoption committee based on draft law registration number 8678. Dear colleagues, I'm laying the groundwork, the committee asked for a basis so that the document could be redrafted so that it would not be vetoed. If we need a veto, let's get it. Here comes the vote, please, on the ground. [[13:44:12]] For 285 Decision taken. And the commission of the committee, the honourable colleagues, at the first session of the next session, we'll consider it, this is September 6th, we'll set it up for the protocol. Ladies and gentlemen, we must now adopt two decrees of solemnity, as it were. Draft decree marking the 60th anniversary of the Ukrainian Peace Council. If you don't mind, Vladimir Aleksandrovich, we'd put it to a vote. Just a minute. With the task of only the legal office, to carry out its technical editing, because there are some Russians there to fit the content. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm voting on a draft decree, marking the 60th anniversary of the Ukrainian Peace Council. [[Registration number 8604]] Please vote. With an appropriate commission from the Legal Department. [[13:45:20.]] For 283 I'll take the order. Second decree, respectable colleagues. Draft Decree on the State level 555th anniversary of the establishment of the city of Borschev of Ternopil. [[Registration number 8608]] Please vote. [[13:45:50.]] For 278 I'll take the order. And the last question is the bill amending the Ukrainian Law on Listing Property Rights that Are Not Privatized (for the Sport Hotel). Euro so we don't get blamed for doing nothing. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please take a brief look at this question.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u320	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u321	[[13:46:26]] For 223 Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u322	Dear colleagues, it's a short, in principle, bill, but it's important. We're today. In the near future, we will have a stadium in Kiev, in the capital, a European model, but next to it we have a hotel called Sport, which has been in a state far from right since Soviet times. So there is a proposal to enact a law to exclude this object from the list of objects that do not belong to privatization. Thank you. And whoever gets it, it's the holding fund that's going to determine. The request in the first and in general to vote, taking into account that there are two lines.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u323	Dear colleagues, please, Andrew Shevchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u324	Colleagues, I just wanted to give you a moment's attention. I think there should be some framework for decency in order to comply with the Rules. See, today we voted in favour of Bill 7293, which was not on the schedule of meetings, and today we adopted a law in general that made comments to colleagues in Carmazin. Now we have two new questions that we have included in the agenda today. I don't want to talk about the issue now, in fact, maybe we should support it, but what made it difficult for the human procedure to go through?
ParlaMint-UA_2011-07-08-m0.u325	Dear colleagues, if there is a need to discuss it, let us discuss it. The procedure has been followed. I'm betting on a motion for a committee to adopt as a basis and as a whole of the draft law. [[Registration number 8777]] Please vote. [[13:48:31]] For 242 Decision taken. In accordance with the calendar schedule for the eighth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the Sixth Assembly, the honourable National Deputies are scheduled to conclude the plenary session of the eighth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 8 July. Please, have a seat. Dear colleagues, First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Economic Development and Trade Andri Petrovich Kljev and members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine attended the plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[Applause]] Dear National Deputies! So we actually finished the eighth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the sixth plenary call. The next week is committee work. To complete the work that needs to be completed. We had 43 days of plenary meetings. There are 973 issues that have been discussed and taken up. And if the brothers we've considered today, there's going to be a lot more -- almost a thousand. Seven parliamentary hearings were held. I have to say that despite criticism, including justice, and above all justice among the MPs, we have done a tremendous job in this session. They passed a series of system laws. We've decided on a total of 1049 drafts in this session. Including the adoption of 215 laws. With the last ones in mind, it's going to be almost 220. Approved at first reading 66. With today's billing even more. 768 drafts were converted, rejected, or withdrawn. Of these, 105 were actually called off by law enforcement entities. At the same time, dear colleagues, I draw your attention to this situation. If, in the previous period, the average duration of the bill in the Supreme Council was between 6 and 12 months, today the duration of the bill in the Supreme Council before the decision is made is one and a half months. Of the 18 bills identified by the President as urgent, 14 adopted as laws, 2 adopted as a basis and sent for preparation for second reading, 2 are being prepared for consideration in the first reading. Subjects of the legislative initiative are divided into 27 bills tabled by the President of Ukraine, 156 by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, 2 by the National Bank and 864 by the Ukrainian National Deputies. With thematic focus, this is primarily a question of sectoral development and economic policy and the legal issue, which is completely justified. Of the laws adopted at the end of this session, 164 laws have been signed and enacted, 16 of them from the ratification of international treaties, 123 from the amendment of existing legislation, and almost 30 laws have been enacted in a new or updated form. Another 30 laws of the number of adopted may be enacted after they have been signed by the President of Ukraine or as a result of their re-examination by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Some of them were considered today. Ladies and gentlemen, we have also adopted 505 decisions of an organizational and procedural nature. Dear colleagues, the committees are currently working on 829 drafts, 125 of which are being prepared for second reading. So I'm asking the committee heads next week to take a closer look at what's in each committee's legislative portfolio and determine how the committee will look at them. Dear National Deputies! During this session, we had everything going on in the session room: both discussions and efforts to hug each other in hugs. But at the same time, my dear colleagues, I hope and believe that we have come to understand what we need to decide in an effort to set up a dialogue. I understand both the opposition, and the majority, because most people take responsibility for difficult, unpopular decisions, which clearly will not add any authority at this stage. And I understand the opposition that has the privilege of speaking and criticizing. I'm convinced that this allows us to carefully analyze what we're taking and what's going to be on the way out, how this is going to be accepted by society. I'm sure we're going to need to establish and multiply this dialogue. I am grateful that the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine is not simple, but we are conducting a dialogue. I expect that from the next session there will also be understanding from the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine of the place, appointment and role of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I'm sure there won't be anything we've had in the last time that some ministers didn't consider it necessary to come, to report the relevant bills. We agreed with the management of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine that, if there is no interest in working with the Supreme Council, we should also be in no hurry. We'll do the same thing. I would ask that we extend this design to all parts of our cooperation. I am convinced that the Supreme Council of Ukraine has done everything to support the initiatives proposed by the President of Ukraine. I am convinced that everyone today has a chance to realize their vision of the state. I'm convinced that we should all work together, together with our colleagues, to give the country a chance to start living more or less normally and predictably, but it takes decisions and practical action. I thank you for understanding. And thank you, dear colleagues, for putting up with me in this session. Perhaps I was at times emotional and did not react as I should to the Chief of the Supreme Council. I think you'll understand with understanding the complexity of our discussions. Dear National Deputies, the eighth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the sixth call I declare closed. [[The National Hymn of Ukraine]] Ladies and gentlemen, may I remind you that the following week the national deputies are working on committees and factions, groups and commissions. In accordance with article 83 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the ninth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the sixth occasion will begin its work on Tuesday, September 6, 2011. Yes, thank you, dear colleagues.
