ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u1	The next item is the continuation of the debate on responsibility for 2021. I give the floor to Mr Tom van der Lee van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u2	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to join with the honourable Members in congratulating Mr Sneller, who has worked very hard over the last few years for the whole process of accountability and the quality of accountability and budgeting. He often did so in a tandem with my former colleague Bart Snels, who unfortunately I have to admit that I haven't been able to follow in his footsteps, too, I think, because my portfolio is a little wider than his. But as a tribute, I would like to return to the words he spoke a year ago. He took a trip to a further past. Partly because the Prime Minister is a historian, Bart Snels recalled a period of Tuscan history. We are talking about the Renaissance................................................................................................................................................................... Using these numbers was gratefully seized by Cosimo de' Medici and especially his accountant Giovanni Benci. By editing the numbers in a certain way, an accounting was created, a truly refined double-sided overview of creditors and debtors. This not only created a first view of assets and debts, but also depicted value creation. Thus De' Medici built a powerful empire based on good accounting. Whoever speaks of De' Medici, as Bart Snels did, can't really get past Machiavelli. Machiavelli fought the autocratic power of De' Medici. He was a top official, an ambassador of the Republic of Florence, who was able to replace De' Medici in a fairly short period of time. He tried to create broad prosperity for the Florentine people on a democratic basis. Unfortunately, that didn't take long. With help from outside, De' Medici managed to regain power in Florence. Machiavelli was arrested and tortured and had to go into exile. And in exile he wrote the well-known work The Prince. The frost is a sharp analysis of the method "the end justifies the means" of the autocrats, which not only occurred in the De' Medici family, but actually throughout Italy and beyond. They were rival city states with autocrats and kingdoms with autocrats who didn't back down to tackle the population hard and seal their power by force. I'm just gonna tell you this because a lot of people don't know... that's a little critical of the Catholic Church. Through the combination of censorship and framing, the word "machiavellist" was created, but that was an action of the church. Like Machiavelli approved what autocrats did. In his other very important work I Discorsi you can read the real Machiavelli. Then he appears to be driven mainly by the desire to put an end to that rivalry between those city states, those endless wars. He wanted to build a democracy, united in an Italy of one nation, to ensure that any Italian could share in broad prosperity. It is significant to our history that the inheritance that is attached to him is a very different from his deep desire. It is also remarkable that it took 350 years for that one nation of Italy to come into being. To this day, all Italians have not yet been able to share in broad prosperity. The same applies to the Netherlands. We used to be in our nation-building, but when we look at the Monitor Brede Prosperity, we unfortunately find that far from everyone shares in that broad prosperity. I recall this because this debate is not just about good accounting. Autocrats can also benefit from good accounting. The point is that good accounting is a means of giving everyone access to broad prosperity. That's gonna get me back on that monitor. In it we see important indicators of where things are not going well. I mentioned in an interruption the green indicators: nature, climate, biodiversity. We're in real bad shape. 221,000 children grow up in poverty. That's way too much. Why not set the goal of bringing it down to zero within this period of government? We also see that the group of low-educated people, people with a non-Western migration background, has become even further in the tribulation. The power inequality is really too great. In the debate on the declaration of government, the Prime Minister was not really ready to recognise that as a substantial problem. I wonder if he has changed his mind by now and if he can indicate what he thinks should happen. Or should we wait again for that moment when Laura of Spirit, with other authors of that report, will again put the finger on the sore spot in June? What is this cabinet's view on how we improve this broad prosperity and how do we ensure that everyone has access to it? And what about the further development of the broad welfare system throughout the budgetary process? The Council of State recommends that sustainability amounts should be maintained more than is currently the case. How does the cabinet feel about that? And do you share with me that it is important not only to look at sustainability qualitatively, in terms of the development of the deficit in public debt in the long term, but also that it is also important to better identify and quantify the extensive natural and climate debt that the Netherlands has built up? In response to this green debt, the new cabinet opted for two funds, one for nitrogen and one for climate, from which it wants to make important investments. However, a selection of these funds is already being made at the first review of the spring decision-making process. Quite apart from an assessment of the substance of this issue, which will follow next week in the debate on the Spring paper, I have to ask whether this does not directly undermine the credibility of a clear, targeted and defined fund approach. After all, the Court's budget law is reduced by fund formation, but apparently the cabinet does not feel that there is a limit to opportunistic intervention from these funds. I have another question that touches on the further integration of the broad approach to prosperity. A newly published opinion of the CPB and PBL makes 21 recommendations on further integrating the broad approach to prosperity into the existing guidance for societal cost-benefit analyses. Is the cabinet gonna work on this soon? That seems very sensible to me. This debate on accountability is too often about the importance of good accounting, which, of course, is not an end in itself, as I have just said. It's a means to broad prosperity. Unfortunately, looking back on 2021, there is also the necessary criticism of the quality of accounting. The Court of Auditors has rightly been mentioned a great deal, and also praised, for its harsh and sharp judgements. Let me go into this a little more detail. We see that the tolerance limit has been exceeded again. Others have remembered this. The commitments are even close to 5%. We see that EUR 6.5 billion in expenditure by the States General has been spent in an uninformed or not informed manner. The number of supplementary budgets is increasing. 63 and 59 times, too soon in some cases, the derogation provided for in Article 2 27 of the Compatibility Act was invoked. In a number of ministries, such as VWS, Defence and, for example, Finance itself, we see too much, and quite serious, flaws. I wanted to ask a few more questions about that. Corona played a clear role, of course, but does not cover all the shortcomings. What structural problems do the cabinet itself see, and how and at what rate are they finally resolved? Specifically about VWS, the question is how, while care covers about a third of our public expenditure, the capacity and expertise in responsible accounting in this department still does not seem to be in order. What else is going to happen here and at what rate? In the case of the Defence Department, it is very worrying that a lot is still going wrong in large procurement routes and that the department does not really recognise this sufficiently. And there may be new setbacks in a heavily overstretched defence market. Can this department handle an extra budget? Who's gonna see to it that responsible money is spent here? What role does the Minister of Finance play, on the basis of Articles 4 (11) and 4 (16) of the Compatibility Act, to achieve that improvement? And how is it that it is not yet in order with Finance itself? Is this purely because of the failure of the past, the child care allowance and everything that went wrong in the fight against fraud, or was there any other business here? What are these, and how is it that this ministry saw in numbers this year the highest number of shortcomings in its financial accounts, if it is based on the Court's financial assessment? Earlier, we asked for actions by the Prime Minister and the Minister to contain the derogation. I have already indicated in my interruption that I would be very pleased if we worked towards four moments in the year in which we discussed the budgetary adjustments in full. We want to be well informed by the government and be able to make informed, coherent choices. It can be done on Prince's Day, but it can be done even more emphatically in the spring by bringing forward a number of things. It can be in the Navy's note, but then there's got to be a fourth moment. I think that should be somewhere after winter or perhaps at the beginning of spring, so that we do not make occasional choices every time with all these different supplementary budgets. We would then be doing it a little more structured and I would like to hear if the government is prepared to think about it and see how we could set it up in consultation with the Chamber. This is in addition to the sensible proposals made by Mr Heinen. I would like to ask a few more questions about the application of Article 3.1 and the importance of the proper formulation of objectives, effectiveness and efficiency. Are you feeling better? And how does the cabinet itself feel about it? As a sidekick, but aside from that, I find it really weird myself. There was a reference to the law that we have just dealt with in extreme urgency. I believe that the whole of the States-General has done so in seven working days, so that 220 million could go to Air France-KLM. In the light of the Compatibility Act, I wonder whether that meets the requirements. I don't think so, but it's just one example. I would like to hear from the cabinet or it feels that it is on the right track. I do not see enough and I am pleased that Mr Sneller continues and calls on each and every one of us to ensure that these criteria are applied and justified in every proposal made by the cabinet. I would also like to ask whether the cabinet is prepared to review its policy with retroactive effect against those criteria and to adapt or delete instruments if necessary. It has already been pointed out that the Court of Auditors' study of 2020 has shown a great deal of inefficient instruments, particularly in the field of taxation. We have just received Mr Van Rij's letter. He has a number of plans and that's nice, but it's not just about fiscal instruments. I know from my EZK time that there are a lot of subsidies where you can ask whether efficiency is in order. Is there going to be a broad plan of action from the Cabinet to examine existing instruments as well? I think it would be very good to do that with each other, because it is important to be careful about our spending. I have to finish, because I'm almost through time. In short, much remains to be done. I would like to say much more, but I think it is very important that the Court of Auditors indicates that there are structural causes and that the basis is not in order. You cannot just refer to the crisis. In its term, the cabinet will therefore have to provide a very good basis for the structural improvements it is going to make in the quality of our accounting, otherwise it will certainly not be possible to make broad prosperity accessible to all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u3	Thank you, Mr. Van der Lee. I give the floor to Mr Grinwis of the Christian Union. I understood, moreover, that the Committee on National Expenditure was holding a debate on 14 September on the budgetary process. There is also scope for further discussion on this subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u4	Thank you, Mr President. In Germany just after the First World War, Max Weber, one of the fathers of modern sociology, gave a lecture that became famous under the title Politik als Beruf, or Political as a calling. In this lecture Weber not only answers the question of what makes a person a good politician: passion, sense of responsibility, insight. Weber also makes an interesting political-philosophical distinction between two types of ethics. These two forms of ethics offer two standards by which we can judge a politician in his actions, namely Gesinnungsethik and Verantwortungsethik, attitude ethics and accountability ethics. The Gesinnungsethik is about the mind, the inner motives of a politician. Within the measure of mind ethics, a person is a good politician when it comes to motivations such as sincerity, mercy and charity. This is therefore a matter of moral integrity. I had to think about this when the President of the General Court, Arno Visser, gave his speech when presenting the accounts to the House of Representatives. Fisher was critical of the deficiencies found, but indicated that this was not so much due to the dedication and commitment of individual directors and civil servants. I would like to add my voice to those words, because cynicism does not fit in with this. We see directors and civil servants who are led by good motivations genuinely committed to the responsibility of the State Treasury, especially in the time of crisis that is behind us. But Weber teaches us that not only is the mindset important; we must also judge politicians and their policies by the measure of accountability ethics. After all, there is more than just good intentions, more than calling. It is therefore a question of action and results in politics. And that is something that needs to be accounted for. It is therefore a good thing that we are having this debate today. This is also in line with Mr Van der Lee's introduction to Machiavelli. Mr. Chairman. The institution which is ideally suited to test the government with the measure of accountability ethics is the General Court. As far as financial accountability is concerned, the government is a little bit down in the ice. The Court of Auditors' report makes no mistake about that. Now, of course, I can start to cry all kinds of things here indignantly, for example, that it is a disgrace that almost 5% of the commitments, EUR 15.5 billion, are not certain of legality, or that the Minister of EZK has not been able to prove that EUR 5.4 billion of expenditure has been properly spent, and I believe that the Corona aid in the form of the Fixed Charges Meeting, the TVL, is legitimate. I can be outraged at the financial management of VWS and the procurement errors at the Department of Defense. But, Mr. Chairman, I'm not gonna do that. The Court of Auditors has produced a clear report. The problems raised in the accountability study can be dealt with in this way by the cabinet, and I am counting on that. It is much more interesting to consider the underlying causes of what has gone wrong. This is because there is a pattern. In an alarming tone, the Court says: pay attention, it is now the third year in a row that the tolerance limits have been exceeded. The Court of Auditors says that some mistakes can and may be, but are structurally above the margin of error, unacceptable. What the hell is going on here? The Court of Auditors says that the ice is thin, sometimes too thin. What do you think this means? In my view, it means that there is often a lack of sufficient officials in the departments who know the seams of the stocking, not only in terms of content, but also in terms of the rules of the state accounting system and the Compatibility Act. And just that kind of knowledge is essential for good accountability over the state's finances. That is why I ask the Minister to agree with this analysis. Does she agree that greater use should be made of financial and otherwise administrative functions in departments, i.e. on the management side? My proposal would be: let us bet on a government that is solid and boring in this area. I would like to say this with a wink to that official who, with a breadbox underneath the fast ties every day, turns to the Ministry to record receipts, draw up budget states and write vertical explanations, which may not be very exciting to read, but are crucial for a sound accountability of all of us taxpayers' money. And that's why I say: more annual planning cycles, more enterprise resource planning and more simply old-fashioned good accounting. And if we can only achieve this upgrading of the Financial and Economic Affairs departments, the FEZs of this world, by cutting the Information Division considerably at the same time, you will of course find the Christian Union on your side. It is simply a matter of the right priorities: less spiders, more control of pins. Mr. Chairman. This would not only be good news for accountants or for the government as a whole. No, this is precisely in the interest of society, of citizens. It is particularly in the interests of citizens who have been wronged or who no longer understand one thing from the government and its opaque regulations. And with this, I came naturally to the hopeless complexity of the government and of many government regulations. Those arrangements have been devised by people who are often on the right side of the line, arrangements that are particularly good for citizens who are also on the right side of the line. So I am referring to citizens who have made it better, and I am using the word 'better' here in the sense of'more', i.e. more luck, more money, more bureaucratic capacity. Last year, I tabled a motion to reduce the multitude and complexity of tax regulations in the debate on accountability. In 2020, 116 schemes were included, resulting in a loss of revenue of EUR 111 billion. Eventually, after a long period of subating, the training deduction and the monument deduction were converted into subsidies. Of course, that's a little thin. There is still a shudder of regulations, a cherry tree that Secretary of State Van Rij fortunately wants to beat up. Does the Prime Minister and the Minister support him in this? Because by removing deductions and reducing tax rebates, we affect the interests of these and genes, and we also touch a sacred house on the left and right. One of the problems in this maze of regulations is not using surcharges. Each year hundreds of thousands of families do not charge fees, which they are entitled to. In the General Financial Reviews, the Chamber unanimously adopted a motion to update the investigation into non-use and to make additional efforts to reduce non-use. How is this non-use study progressing? To what extent have all kinds of supplements not been used in recent years? How does the cabinet respond to a motion that calls for an additional effort to approach payment recipients more actively in order to reduce non-use? And a little higher: what does the Prime Minister of the hopelessly complex government think, especially for citizens in vulnerable neighbourhoods where there are almost no neighbours left who can be them to one hand and one foot? What does he want to do for them and how? I found the story of Mr. Van Dijk about Mr. De Haas of, I think, 82 signs, but also of that mother in Moerwijk who has just too little money every month and therefore comes into hopeless complexity with debt workers etc.; if you add up all these salaries, she can live months of it. Mr. Chairman. Accountability day also means the publication of the Monitor Brede Welvaart. I have, of course, read it with great interest, not only on the assumption that a one-sided focus on GDP growth is inadequate as a measure of the success of our economy, but also on the understanding that the answer to the question of why man is on earth is not for production and consumption. In the Christian Union we have traditionally enjoyed enough more than the classic economic axiom "more is better." The Christian Union is therefore a strong supporter of broad prosperity and implementation of broad welfare indicators in the fiscal cycle. That is why we co-signed the Hammelburg motion at the time. In the letter on broad prosperity in the budgetary system, I read that broad prosperity has a central role to play in the Millions' Note, which is a good thing, but why not go ahead and give broad prosperity a central place in the departmental budgets? That is what the Chamber asked for. Mr President, shall I conclude first, because this is the same theme?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u5	You'll have to finish first.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u6	The need for this seems obvious. After all, the Monitor Brede Welvaart not only shows what Dutch prosperity looks like in a broad sense in the here and now, but also what the effects of our behavior are on there and later. An illustration: in the cabinet response, I read that the cabinet is concerned about deforestation and biodiversity loss, and that it therefore imposes strict sustainability requirements. I wonder what the sustainability requirements are. Does the government expect these requirements to be sufficient to prevent biodiversity loss? How is the government going to maintain this and at the same time ensure that groups that are in a difficult socio-economic situation are able to cope with this? Another illustration: the General Court also cracks a critical note about broad prosperity and the National Growth Fund. Now the Minister has chosen a very narrow objective: a structural increase in GDP. But isn't that too shabby? Should we not focus on growth in the broad sense of the word? Because, to get back to Max Weber, this objective seems to me to be a hugely important attitude. If broad prosperity is explicitly part of the objective of, for example, the Growth Fund, we can better hold the Cabinet accountable for the impact that the Growth Fund has on our prosperity in the broad sense, both on the goals and the plans, as well as on the final results.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u7	Mr Alkaya's last question, SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u8	I would like to talk about the people who do not make use of regulations that they are entitled to. If I were to describe Mr Grinwis, I would describe him as someone with mercy rather than merciless, merciless, rather than being rigorous and making people a victim. However, the effect of the cabinet, which he is also in, is really the opposite. We really have a merciless and rigorous government that people are just afraid of. Let me give you an example. We meet people who live in a social housing unit who are entitled to a rent reduction, because their house is in very bad shape. At the same time, they do not dare to apply because their right to rent may change. They want to avoid conflict with the IRS at all costs. So they say, "I only pay extra rent because I don't want to deal with the IRS because it's so merciless." The Christian Union is partly responsible for this. I miss that self-reflection. What responsibility does Mr Grinwis himself feel for that merciless government, for which he is responsible?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u9	First of all, thank you to Mr Alkaya for typifying me as he did. Then the answer to the question. I really do have pain in my belly when the government acts mercilessly or if outcomes are clearly unjust, although the mind was good. I didn't mention these examples for nothing, and I didn't join my colleague Van Dijk for nothing. In addition to the fact that the Christian Union and hopefully the representatives of the Christian Union are known as people who are merciful and have mercy on fellow human beings, Christian Union people are also people who have a great deal of respect for the fact that not everything is easy to make and can not be changed at fingertips. For example, it was our commitment to abolishing the surcharge system. Together with other coalition partners, we have managed to agree to abolish the childcare allowance and to implement reforms and simplifications in the rent allowance. I come now to your specific example. If a rent reduction is rejected or if one is afraid of it because the rent payment could then go down, then of course we are going to take a step towards the complete abolition of the rent payment, by basing it now on standard rent. There's still a lot to say about that. I am also sure that Mr Alkaya is not just going to vote for that bill. But that is certainly a solution to Mr Alkaya's problem, which means that the reduction in rent will no longer be reflected in a reduction in the rent payment. In this way, we try to make regulations less complex and simpler, piece by piece, with trial and error. This increases and sometimes reduces the differences in outcomes. In any case, the Christian Union is doing its best to make the government less complex and simpler, and ultimately more just and merciful. That is the last aspect, because even in this general, large scheme, officials of directors must be given the opportunity to apply custom-made measures in implementation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u10	Thank you, Mr Grinwis. Were you at the end of your speech?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u11	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u12	Then I give the floor to Mr Van Raan, Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u13	Mr. Chairman. "I have been standing here for a number of years now and this year I find it harder than previous years to find the right words." Those were the opening words of the President of the Court of Auditors, Arno Visser, when presenting the accounts to the House of Representatives in May of this year. These are also my opening words: I have been standing here for a number of years now and I find it more difficult this year than previous years. It also seems appropriate to illustrate this by the same book that Visser quoted: Dead souls, by Ukrainian writer Nikolai Gogol. That's the story of the man who wants to buy the registration papers of unwritten deceased serfs. Something that's actually worthless gets value. Arno Visser then showed us what was not described in the book, which was not in question, but what he suggested as more important; if you take more distance, you can see it. For though one looks at the buyer strangely in the book of Dead souls, buying up the ownership papers of deceased serfs is weird, no one questions the system of serfs themselves. That's the deal. There's a lot of important things in the accounts. However, the system itself, the system of extraction and exhaustion, is not under discussion, while meeting the climate and biodiversity targets is not a good thing. In fact, after 50 years of failing climate policy, in the whole Kingdom, saving is what can be saved. Mr. Chairman. For the third year in a row, the cabinet has spent billions without a clear legal basis, the Court states. This year we are talking about 15.5 billion. What is the cause of these so-called unlawful acts? For three years, the cabinet has been blaming the circumstances. In 2021, that was the corona crisis. But what if it's not the circumstances, but the system itself that helps in causing those circumstances? Shouldn't you be questioning that? Many of our social problems have the same origins: a bankrupt system geared to persistent economic growth thinking, the short-term vision and the sacred belief in technical innovations. This is now at the expense of everything, human, animal, nature, climate, environment, later and elsewhere. This system has therefore become the cradle of new crises. In line with the IPCC for the development and development of system perspective and system transitions, it is not for nothing the recommendation of the scientists who, at the request of the Chamber, released the test on climate policy in accordance with Article 3.1 of the Compatibility Act. But 2021 was mainly about getting back to business as usual: perpetuating the current destructive system, in which natural disasters and pandemic zoonoses have become an inevitability. It is a matter of when instead of or, and of a white swan, and not of a black swan, as the predecessor of this finance minister saw it. And back to "business as usual" only increases the risk of new injustices. How does the Prime Minister view this? I'd like a response. And how does the Prime Minister look at the Court's suggestion that irregularities are caused by the lack of proper crisis preparation? All of this is happening in a system that has had its best time, a system that is highly pregnant from a range of so-called unforeseen crises, all of which require so-called unforeseen billions of expenditure to be made in a timely fashion. Mr Heinen of the VVD rightly made the same analysis: more crises, more unforeseen expenditure. Mr Sneller of D66 seemed to be joining in; he was not the first. And what does the Minister of Finance, often referred to as system responsible, do now, unlike her predecessor, to prevent the discussion of the illegalities from becoming a tradition next year? Is she already in the process of preventing it? And how? And how does the risky behaviour of the cabinet in relation to the crises such as the climate crisis, the diversity crisis, the nitrogen crisis, the new zoonoses and also the surcharge scandal contribute to preventing unlawful acts? Does the Minister of Finance agree that if it maintains the system, in which crises are inevitable, instead of changing the system as an effective crisis approach, it will increase the chances of unlawful acts in the future? Mr. Chairman. One of the signals that the risk of unlawful acts was high last year is the amount of incidental supplementary budgets sent to the Chamber. Saillant is that the purchase of Air France-KLM shares three years ago was the beginning of the illegal fiscal policy trend. Then how does this new incidental supplementary budget fit into the purchase of the new shares of Air France-KLM last week? Mr. Chairman. The President of the Court of Auditors also said: on paper, we approve what is really not going well. In addition to a good financial policy, you also want to know if we got what we needed for our money. What were the targets in 2021? What resources have been deployed? And have the goals been achieved? Let me give you an example. Whether the climate policy set out is sufficient, you can differ on that. But in doing so, the cabinet does not even achieve the most important goals, such as the Urgenda goal. And in terms of climate, achieving goals has become a coincidence rather than a result of careful management. Mr. Chairman. The Monitor Brede Welvaart (NL) It is nice that it is now so embraced in the Chamber of Commerce that the cumulative CO emissions are increasing in trend, that it is getting worse with nature and biodiversity in the Netherlands and that the Netherlands is taking on natural capital and raw materials in other countries. What lessons does the Prime Minister draw from this? Mr. Chairman. The Compliance Act now provides that discharge relates only to the financial management of ministers and does not concern the policies pursued and the policy results achieved. Is the Minister of Finance prepared to amend the law in such a way as to extend the discharge to the efficiency and effectiveness of policies so that the Chamber can better assess whether policies have contributed to broad prosperity? At the moment, the national budget is geared towards instruments. It may not matter to citizens how much has been transferred to a specific organisation through the instrument "contribution to agencies" or "contracts." Above all, citizens want to know how much we spend on concrete goals, and can check that that has been enough to achieve the goals set. Mr. Chairman. From the V-100-meeting........................................................................................................................................................... This year it was about young scientists. They said very precisely: "In annual reports, showing much more clearly to what extent targets have been achieved would be a very good goal in itself. If citizens are able to see much better, much clearer and much simpler to what extent the promises have been fulfilled, this can improve confidence in politics." The full importance of the broad concept of prosperity was clearly stated. I wonder what the Minister of Finance thinks about this. Is she willing to investigate whether this would be feasible? I'm considering a motion on this point. Mr. Chairman. In addition to the Monitor Brede Prosperity, we have also embraced the Sustainable Development Goals, the SDGs. We warned about it before: the problem with the Sustainable Development Goals is that they assume economic growth that is not decoupled from CO and offer many opportunities for greenwashing. The SDGs are well-intentioned, but they turn out to be either a grabbelton for greenwashers or unfeasible. It seems to be one big paradox. Greenwashers can shop and thus conceal the urgency of system change. But if you want to get them all, it turns out the system is bankrupt after that. 100 scientists have already recommended the UN to stop. Is the Minister prepared to examine this issue and take steps this year? Finally, Mr President. I come back to the beginning of my speech. I think it is time for a further step in accountability, particularly on climate policy. As you know, the Urgenda target has not been reached. It is very likely that other targets will not be met either. Scientists recently announced that there is a 50% chance that we will reach the 1.5 degree warming in the next five years. 50% chance. In 2015, this opportunity was still 0%. In 2020, the odds jumped to 20%, and now the chances are 50% that we will go over the 1.5 degrees within five years. So it doesn't get any better. With these alarming figures, it is becoming increasingly important for us to understand the decisions that the cabinet has not taken, even though we could have. Of course, that's quite a puzzle, but we owe it to this generation and the next generations to explain it properly. Shall I finish, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u14	You'll have to finish first.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u15	Thank you. We were warned; that's what Jaap Tielbeke's penetrating book is called the prophetic environmental report of the Club of Rome. To let it go, for 50 years, requires good accountability, just as much as a debate on system change is not only desirable, but also required. The aforementioned Ukrainian writer Gogol never completed his book Dead souls, said Arno Visser. But we have no choice but to write the next chapter in the fragile prosperity of the Netherlands. It's about urgent system changes. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u16	I didn't quite understand something. I heard Mr Van Raan say: in 2015, the chance of that 1.5 degree warming was still 0%, and now suddenly it is 20%. Did I hear that right? But, of course, a lot of measures have already been taken between 2015 and now. Perhaps Mr Van Raan can explain why this opportunity is so much higher, and then related to the Dutch situation, not worldwide. We are talking about the Netherlands and what is happening here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u17	Thanks for the question. I imagine Mrs Van der Plas doesn't understand that. You can understand that very well if you take the broad prosperity concept and the Monitor Brede Prosperity. Then you see these indicators of "here and now" and "later and elsewhere." The most important indicator for climate policy will then appear in the indicators later, namely cumulative CO emissions. These cumulative CO2 emissions are still increasing. So every year there's more to it than actually going off. This means that the measures that are being taken do not achieve the objective of staying below that dangerous limit. That is also apparent from the failure to reach the Urgendavonnis. Where cumulative emissions in 2015 in scientists' calculations were not yet far enough to say that within five years we are going over the 1.5 degree temperature increase, we have released so much extra in the last seven years, so much CO has been added and the number of particles in the atmosphere has increased so that the probability of that 1.5 degree temperature increase within five years has now become 50%. I hope that's how I explained it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u18	Yeah, "cumulative" is getting more, stacking up.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u19	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u20	But the sectors that often matter when we talk about 'climate destroyers' are often referred to as agriculture, which is doing badly, have only emitted less, have reduced nitrogen emissions by 67% in 30 years and have been below the nitrogen ceiling for years. There is also less and less CO emitted. The horticulture sector has long been engaged in sustainability; it consumes a lot of energy, but not nearly as much as years ago. The fine dust emissions have already been reduced a great deal: 40% since 30 years ago. In the last 30 years, ammonia emissions from pig farming have been reduced by 80%. Speaking with Mr Van Raan, how does he see that agriculture is still the child in terms of measures? That is the most polluting sector, but that is also the sector with the highest reductions. And how does that relate to the global climate? Because we also know that for every chicken, cow and pig we get out of here, two come back elsewhere in the world. And then those emissions go up again. So I would also like to stick to the Dutch situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u21	The answer is as follows. The moment you're already losing too much, everything that comes with it is too much. So you can start to emit a little less, but if that comes up, it's still destructive. That is exactly what is happening with agriculture. The only way in which we can produce sustainable agriculture and help our farmers is by reducing the animal part of agriculture at least.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u22	Mrs van der Plas' last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u23	That's what the scholars agree on.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u24	We'll have coffee sometime. We've already done that once, and we're gonna do that again. I'm sorry, what did you say, Mr. Van Raan?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u25	...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u26	Mr. Van Raan, you're gonna have to say it in the microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u27	I see that as an invitation to drink coffee again.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u28	Look, that's positive.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u29	Okay, that's great. Agriculture in the Netherlands, of course, is not subject to increasing emissions. In this respect, there are fewer and fewer emissions. Mr Van Raan may sigh, but I am not the one who mentioned climate change and I am not the one who said that agriculture is the cause of climate change.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u30	But the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u31	In the Netherlands, of course, there is less and less emission. I understand very well how the Party for Animals looks at this from its idealistic motives: it wants more organic farming. But organic farming, of course, has the disadvantage that it requires more land use. If you keep animals organic, for example a pig, they live longer. So they need more food, organic food. We do not have enough of that in the Netherlands. So that has to come from all kinds of other countries. That means transport again and that means extra CO. So, once again, how does Mr Van Raan see the challenge for agriculture at the moment for the Dutch situation and what does this reduction in livestock or making it completely organic worldwide bring about the climate problem?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u32	Here too, Mrs Van der Plas can benefit from studying the Monitor Brede Welvaart. Look at the fact that we kill 600 million animals a year in the Netherlands and the amount of food we get from elsewhere. 600 million animals a year! We are capturing the situation in other parts of the world. I would like to say all this aside from the ethical aspect, because Mrs van der Plas is very easily getting over that these are thoughtful beings. The pig has a consciousness and an intelligence of four years. I don't know if there's enough coffee here...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u33	You're teaching each other a little bit over and over again. That's kind of interesting, but could you cut it a little short?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u34	So we drag a lot of food from all over the world here, chase 600 million animals over the blade for meat production and stay behind with a huge amount of manure and misery. That footprint's so big, there's nothing left. That's the real problem. 75% reduction in livestock, at least, would solve a lot.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u35	Thank you. I hear Mr Van Raan say that in his view we are far from achieving the goals we need to achieve in terms of CO reduction and so on. There's gonna be all kinds of stuff on the table. The whole of the Netherlands needs to become vegetarian. We must stop thinking that we are going to have economic growth. Those are very intense statements and very intense future images. But in the meantime, of course, the Netherlands is already paying incredibly much to all the climate plans that are already being implemented. The petrol has gone to more than €2.50 per litre. The power bill is exploding. The whole of the Netherlands is gonna be full of these horrible wind turbines. We are already doing so much that makes our lives less pleasant and less happy, which makes us poorer, which makes our country uglier and so on. If you believe that you need to reduce CO and so on, isn't it much more effective to give catalysts to people in India, for example, or to do things elsewhere in the world, in places where they emit much and much more CO? If you believe all that, isn't the Netherlands the place to introduce it? Isn't that a very inefficient use of resources?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u36	I am going to thank Mr Baudet in two ways. Firstly, I thank him for saying that it would be a good thing if the whole of the Netherlands became vegetarian. He didn't hear me say that. Apparently, he thinks that's a good idea himself. Thank you for that. The second point concerns how we can help abroad, the "everywhere" in the terms of the Broad Prosperity Monitor, in a sustainable way, so that it becomes self-sufficient in a good way. He calls a few instruments. I think maybe we should have a cup of coffee about that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u37	Can we still drink coffee?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u38	'Cause I think we're in favour of other systems. But that's exactly what's going on. We have a lifestyle where we make 3.6 globes. The world overshoot date, the date on which we created the renewable sources for the Netherlands, is already in May. Sorry about the lecture, Chairman. We can only do that by bringing everything from outside the Netherlands here and that creates enormous inequality. So for the second point, too, I would like to congratulate you: let us help other countries, elsewhere, in particular to become independent. But that doesn't change the fact that... There I think Mr Baudet is a bit of a pessimist, a bit of a gloomy man, a doom-thinker, you might say; I am getting help from the Chamber, for which I am grateful. It is not that the Netherlands would have to do nothing. The Netherlands will become much more pleasant and finer if we return the footprint. I have some ideas for that myself, but that might be a little far-reaching.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u39	But first we're gonna see... Mr. Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u40	I still feel that my words have not been properly understood at every point by Mr. Van Raan. I mean that we are already paying an incredible amount to the climate obsession. I understand that the Animal Party wants to go even further than the current cabinet, but in my view the present cabinet is already going very far and the current climate plans are already completely priceless. Absolutely priceless! In my view, this is reflected in the energy bill, the gas price, the fact that life becomes priceless and our landscape unliveable. If you see with that policy and with that data that according to your doom projections the world will end in a few years and I know what's going to happen, shouldn't you be scratching behind the ears and saying, what we're going to do is adaptation? If the climate would change a little bit, we never know exactly, we never really control it; it could get a bit warmer, it could get a little colder again, as it has fluctuated over the last hundreds of years, then we can also build a bit of dikes, do some more irrigation work here and there and do all kinds of adaptation instead of throwing away our entire prosperity with a completely uncertain projection of the future. That's my point.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u41	I'm sorry about that. I sincerely regret that, because now Mr Baudet is going into the realm of fairy tales. I find this really incomprehensible in Mr Baudet's reasoning, of someone who embraces, say, all the pleasures and knowledge of science. He couldn't have gotten a watch on his wrist if he had, as a culmination of science. It was said: the more science, the more suffering and the more responsibility. On the other hand, the more science, the more doubt. But doubting what is now certain about the world and what the projections are what happens when we exceed 1.5 degrees... I really have great difficulty debating this way with Mr Baudet, if he questions that, because that means he's somewhere on Mars and I'm on Venus. There's really no way to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u42	It is true that I question those projections, and I find not only a lot of scientists on my side, but also the experience of the past few decades. I happened to look back at the projections of the United Nations and other clubs, such as the Club of Rome, which you mentioned, in recent decades, in preparation for this debate. None of those projections came out; not at all. It's very unpredictable. We don't even know if it's gonna rain tomorrow or it's gonna be cloudy or sunny. We know much less than you make it appear. Then my question. Suppose you're right, suppose it's true it's getting a little warmer. A thousand years ago, it was warmer on earth than it is today, during the medieval heat period. Four thousand years ago, it was much warmer on Earth than it is now. There's been a lot of fluctuations over the centuries. The climate won't stabilize. It's not something that's always stable, always the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u43	And your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u44	And suppose it would be true that a little more CO not only creates a lot more plant and tree growth, because it is known, but also that it gets a little bit warmer, then we can spend that money that we're now throwing away at these obsessive targets for reduction much better in adaptation?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u45	Thank you. Mr. Van Raan.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u46	Build dikes, build irrigation works, make sure you learn to live with a little warmer weather. We all go to the sun on vacation, because man thrives much better when it's a little warmer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u47	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u48	It's not a big deal. I don't believe those projections, but even if they were true, it wouldn't matter if it happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u49	Mr Baudet started his question by saying that it would not be true, but the chance that it is true is so much greater than that it is not true that his question is really not just nonsense, really nonsense, but also dangerous nonsense, because there are whole tribes who might go after you and think: oh, it's not so bad, because Mr Baudet says it's not so bad. I can assure you, believe me not, believe especially the science that it is true. So the argument that it is not true makes this really a bullshit question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u50	Thank you. We are now going to listen to Mr Baudet's input. You have another question, Mr. Baudet? Yeah, one more question. I'm just gonna turn on your microphone so people can hear you. Mr Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u51	"The science" makes this the most unscientific remark you can make. There's no such thing as "science." Science is a method. The idea that so much percent... Science is not democracy either. When Albert Einstein presented his relativity theory, there were hundreds of scientists who said "this is not true," "this cannot be" and so on. He said, "Oh, man, if they were right, they'd have had enough for one person." It is not about quantity in science; it is about arguments. The IPCC is a politicized collective of some scientists. There are a lot of climatologists, geologists, archaeologists, you name it on... with very different visions...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u52	And your question...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u53	... on climate, on CO and so on.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u54	...to Mr. Van Raan?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u55	It's a final remark. To avoid this discussion with the remark "thinks science" is nonsense. My point was not at all to be right about this scientific discussion. My point was: even if it were true, it would still be much better to adapt than to try obsessively to reduce it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u56	Well, Mr Baudet is right, of course, because "science" does not exist, just like "politics," "the Dutchman" et cetera does not exist either. In that sense, of course, he is absolutely right. And he is right again: science is a matter of asking questions, of doubt, of fighting, of paradigm changes. Mr Sneller has already mentioned it. I think we both recognize that process. But in that process it is also about the golden rule of science: how much proof is there that you can do something with a certain probability? And that has been achieved in climate science. And if you do... yes, chairman, I see again... yes, you know, then it's gonna be a bit of a well-nite. That's gonna be really hard.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u57	I think it's been exchanged enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u58	I think the need for science in the Chamber has been re-established. Maybe we can find each other in that: more science in the Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u59	Thank you, Mr. Van Raan. I shall now give the floor to Mr Baudet, Forum for Democracy. I think you just exchanged some of your input.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u60	No, you're not!
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u61	No? We're gonna listen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u62	Mr. Chairman. Today, the cabinet has to answer for the previous year, about 2021. It was a year that started with a lockdown and ended with a lockdown, a year with elections and the formation of a new cartel cabinet with exactly the same people and exactly the same plans as the cabinet before it. The cabinet continues exactly the same trend as, in fact, all cartels: more immigration, open borders, generous asylum policy, permanent residence permits, etc.; more supranationalism, more power for the EU, for the World Health Organisation, for NATO and for all other international, globalist institutions; and, thirdly, more climate policy. It's a list I've listed hundreds of times now. I have always said: boys, if we continue to do so, as the established parties want, we will destroy our prosperity, our social cohesion and our democracy. It's so obvious; it's actually so easy to understand. The fact that more than 100,000 people come to the Netherlands every year makes a huge housing shortage that gets out of hand in the Netherlands. This creates congestion and pressure on social security, on health care, on safety. The whole of the country's social cohesion is bursting. And yet the Netherlands is becoming fuller and fuller, those borders remain open, new groups of immigrants are being found all over the world who can go there. 100,000 people every year. Absurd. As the European Central Bank is increasing billions each month, inflation is getting out of hand. That's good for the South. That is why it is happening: because we are stuck with that euro coin and the southern debt needs to be infused away. That's why it happens. But this is bad for us in the Netherlands because our savings and our pensions evaporate and our money, which our ancestors, the previous generations, have built up, is becoming less and less valuable. If the government had stood up for our national interests, this would never have happened. But people have long been thinking of a European interest; they have long been thinking of globalism. For this reason, too, the government uses Dutch interests as a trump card to please the European partners. They sacrifice the Netherlands to improve their international position. The same applies to climate plans. While the whole world wants gas, Rutte and Kaag have to show on international shows that they are the best boy in the class. The result is that our energy becomes completely priceless. We can barely refuel, companies are pulling away and the power bill goes through the roof. Our whole country is gonna be full of these hideous wind turbines. All terrible destructive policies, which have been going on for years in the Netherlands and continued in 2021. The Netherlands is slowly sinking. It's so obvious, in front of our eyes. It's happening. Everyone sees it around them. 30 to 40 years ago, a earner with an ordinary middle-class job could support three children and buy a house. He had a little car and could go on vacation twice a year. That was a very normal standard of living in the Netherlands 30 to 40 years ago. That's all in the past. The public services were so good 30 to 40 years ago that basically everyone, whatever background you had, could go up through the education system, the social system, if you had the skills to do that, whatever profession you had, to go to college without massive student debt, and so on. You name it all. The situation was that our elderly people could live their old age decently in nursing homes or retirement homes. The situation was much better across the board and we are sinking as a country. And that's because of those three megatrends, which the established politics have completely attached themselves to, and which she always wants to go on with, no matter what happens. Whether one party gets bigger in the elections or the other: immigration, Europeanisation and climate transition, it goes on. From VVD to CDA, from the Labour Party to GroenLinks, D66 and the Christian Union, all established parties support this as a starting point of policy, and so everything we discuss today as a justification for 2021 is, I'm sorry to say, snooping in the margin. It's about a percentage point here or there. It's like, guys, just do that; put some civil servants on it. But you guys need to zoom out. We need to zoom out and see why there is a problem in the Netherlands: where does it go wrong? That's because the fundamental choices are not right. The Forum for Democracy is the only party that raises this issue at that fundamental level and insists over and over again that the principles of policy are not right. They're not good, and they have to change. We want to do something fundamentally different, not a little different, but completely different. We want to put the Dutch back at the centre, stop mass immigration, European unification and climate plans. We want to say no to the international pressure to continue with the current policy, so we want to tear ourselves out of the grip of the globalists and become once again the free haven that we have been here in this Rhine Delta in the past. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u63	Thank you, Mr. Baudet. Then I give the floor to Mr Eppink, JA21.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u64	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm going back to Earth. Mr. Chairman. The bookkeeping for the past year doesn't look good. The President of the General Court, Arno Visser, warned: if basic matters are not in order, how are you going to do complicated business? Some of it is due to the corona crisis, but we cannot say with certainty whether it has been spent effectively. We therefore join the criticism of other groups and ask ourselves: will the Dutchman receive a good report next year on where all these billions of taxpayers' money went and whether they were spent efficiently and lawfully? JA21 notes that major errors have been made over the past year and not only in accounting. We look back on a turbulent year. Many of today's problems are due to policy choices made over the past year. That's how we see the migration crisis. The reception of asylum seekers is overcrowded. There is no house left for ordinary Dutch people anymore, let alone we have 13,000 houses for status holders lying on the shelf. JA21 has warned about this since our arrival, and this has not yet been resolved by this cabinet. JA21 has also repeatedly asked: can the cabinet make the real costs of migratory flows clear on the budget? I asked Minister Hoekstra last year, but he couldn't. He didn't know how to do that. I would like to ask this cabinet and the new Minister of Finance to make these costs clear on the budget. According to scientist Jan van de Beek, this is costing us billions. We don't know exactly how much, but I'm asking the Cabinet to let us know. We must dare to appoint and discuss this, because if we do not know how much policy costs, it is difficult to control the cabinet. That is why this discharge, as it is called, is also important. But we are also seeing the purchasing power crisis and rising inflation. Very troubling, Prime Minister! Also today bad news from the Central Planning Bureau. A million households are threatened by high energy prices. A million households, a large number of citizens, Prime Minister! People see the messages become very expensive, do not dare to refuel and lose their savings every day in value, partly because of the ECB's monetary policy, but certainly also because of the policies of the past Cabinets. And yes, the war in Ukraine has exacerbated the problems, but in 2021 and also when the new cabinet took office, even before the war, JA21 has already warned about the enormous burden, rising energy prices and declining purchasing power. There has been no listening and the problems are being pushed forward because the coalition itself is not coming out. Political time has been bought so that the cabinet can remain as it is now. Mr. Chairman. Does the Minister agree with JA21 that the purchasing power crisis and rising inflation have been partly caused by policy choices over the past year and that we cannot completely hide behind the war in Ukraine? If so, what other policy options will this cabinet make to save the purchasing power of ordinary Dutch people? Mr. Chairman. Then we also have a nitrogen crisis. In the German coalition agreement, the word "Stickstoff" occurs only once, whereas there the Greens prefer. The whole country's locked here. We no longer build, we no longer farmers, our economy squeaks and cracks, and what does the cabinet do? Put billions in a fund to force the farmers to stop farming. Despite the large housing shortage, housing is in danger of falling silent. And why? It's amazing and no one outside of these "square acres" understands it anymore. Maurice de Hond has surveyed for us that as many as 75% of the voters of the Netherlands would prefer us to solve the housing shortage than we are working on nitrogen and not building it. Of the CDAs it is 84% and of the VVDs it is 86%. Ladies and gentlemen, I wish you a pleasant conference tomorrow! A large majority of the coalition parties also oppose this policy. I am therefore happy to present this mirror of society to you. What the hell are we doing in The Hague? Stop wasting money, learn the lessons of 2021, solve the migration crisis, improve purchasing power and repair nitrogen policy as soon as possible with a repair law. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. There's a lot of time left, but I'll give it back to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u65	Well, well, well. It's appreciated. I give the floor to Mr Stoffer of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u66	Mr. Chairman. A thousand euros is a lot of money for most families in our country, money that such a family can use for the rising energy bill or to pay the cost of studying. Over a thousand euros of tax money per Dutchman, a total of 18.8 billion euros, is the amount that may have been spent illegally or for which unlawful commitments have been entered into. I think we have to find out here that this is a problem. Last year, during the debate on accountability, I raised the question as to whether these illegal government expenditures were due to corona and everything that came with it. This year I am not asking that question because it is clear for the SGP. Of course, Corona didn't cooperate, but we can't attribute everything to Corona. The corona crisis has had two other consequences. First of all, she has exposed structural problems, because during a big storm you can only see how solid the roof really is. Mr. Chairman. But the problems aren't a natural phenomenon, something you can't influence. Two examples show that improvements are possible. Firstly, this can be done by investing in financial management. Public Health, Welfare and Sport seems to have found their way upstairs. Information security is also getting more and more organized. In my opinion, a boost to financial management is urgently needed by the general government. As far as the SGP is concerned, this is an important part of the solution. My question to the Minister for Finance is what role she sees for herself in this. In particular, the question is also: how is the financial expertise in all ministries where it is needed strengthened at most, I think, but the case of "reinforced"? And can the Minister promise that after VWS an additional step will be taken in other ministries, of course insofar as that is necessary in those ministries? Mr. Chairman. Corona has also damaged the Court's budget right. Many colleagues have already said a few things about this. During the corona crisis, occasional budgets were frequently used and a turn was sometimes made in the area of budget law. I am very glad that today I also saw and heard VVD and D66 put my finger on it. My question is whether the Minister can respond to this, and in particular how the path of financial legality can be found again. Mr. Chairman. The crisis measures are not gone after Corona. The war in Ukraine and, for example, the compensation for high energy prices have not done the budget law any good either. But I am also thinking of the huge funds the cabinet wants to set up. The money is already certain, but the effectiveness is highly uncertain, as Mr Nijboer has emphasised. I totally agree with what he said. I also found it quite significant that money can be extracted from these funds in the spring note, without any real consequences. Then my questions are: what exactly is the effectiveness of these funds, and what is the Minister going to do in concrete terms to restore the House's budget right? And above all: is the Minister also more often going to sell no to ministers who ask for extra money without a legal basis, or without explicit approval from Parliament? Mr. Chairman. You said earlier, somewhere in the course of the debate, that we are going to look forward next week; now we are going to look back. When I look back at my last week, I can say that I accidentally ran into the book The romantic accountant. I'm sure the members in section K know that. It is the biography of Gerrit Zalm, the former Minister of Finance. I never had such a romantic image with him, I have to be honest. I'm halfway through the book, but I haven't found out either. But I've shown many times that I long for the salmon norm. And when I read this book halfway through, I think: I also long for the spirit of Salmon. And what's that? In my opinion, of course, it can still change when I finish the whole book, that's the following: he acted in the short term, but always kept the long-term outlook ahead. I think we should get back to that, too. But maybe next week, when I finish the whole book, I'll have much better insights, or I'll say: it wasn't quite it. But this is what I'm saying for now. Dan DOD. I think we should definitely think about that. As in 2021, the General Court found that real estate management at the Department of Defence is insufficient. I filed a motion for action last year. That action is there, and that's good. Around the summer there will be a new Strategic Real Estate Plan. It will, of course, involve concentrating, renewing and making more sustainable choices that need to be well-founded and justified. But my question is: is the Minister confident that this will also enable the problems to be resolved definitively? Because, of course, as a SGP, we are very positive about the fact that more money finally goes to the Defense Department. We also see that the Department of Defence Purchasing is going to be very busy in the coming years; that is good news. But there are a number of concerns, especially when we look at the financial side. Indeed, since 2016, the Court has seen procurement management as imperfect. My question is: how are these shortcomings addressed and what concrete actions are being taken at the moment? Because in any case, that extra money also brings with it additional responsibility. We must ensure that the money for the defence is not only spent effectively, but also lawfully. And I would like the Minister to take that up. Mr. Chairman. In an interruption at the CDA I have already caught the Monitor Brede Welvaart by the head. One point that came to me in any case firmly is that volunteering, because that is the indicator that has deteriorated the most since last year. We, like SGP, find this very worrying, as fortunately a number of colleagues, because it is precisely that voluntary work that is extremely important. It's the cement of society. My question is, in fact, whether the Minister has any explanation for this decline. And what can and will the Minister do to encourage volunteering? We can't lower that any further, that's my message. One of the things that triggered me in any case is the pressure of regulation. Can the Minister influence this and thus make volunteering more attractive? Many people will not know what the UBO register is, but the Minister obviously knows that. Can it indicate whether there are possibilities to at least make volunteering more attractive? Mr. Chairman. Another important point is the implementation of motions and commitments. In the autumn budget, the Court is always informed of the implementation of adopted motions. But it would be logical for the cabinet to inform the Chamber about this precisely on Accountability Day, the day on which the Chamber looks back on the previous year. The Working Party on Strengthening Functions Tweede Kamer advises in its report More than the sum of the parts to insert an additional reflection moment. Hence my question to the Prime Minister whether the Cabinet is prepared to include a report on the implementation of motions and commitments for the past year in the annual reports on Accountability Day. This will strengthen the position of the Chamber and ensure that it is properly implemented. Finally, Mr President. The Accountability debate is also the time to look back and learn lessons for the future. One of these lessons is to close the gap between paper and reality, as the General Court told us. I am thinking, for example, of the ambitious paper climate targets and the reality of overcrowded electricity grids. Yesterday we heard that the nets in Brabant and Limburg are overcrowded. This is bad for sustainability and bad for the economy. My specific question is: how is the cabinet going to solve this? I am also thinking of the settlement of damages in Groningen, where every euro that went to a Groninger was accompanied by no less than €0.74 in implementation costs. That problem also plays a wider role. A low middle-income family may live well on paper, but due to the high tax burden, the lack of surcharges and rising inflation, it must in reality make an effort to make ends meet. This morning, too, the newspapers were full of it. My questions are: why do these middle-incomes receive so little attention and how will the cabinet ensure that middle-incomes can get back to being financially viable? The SGP believes that much more attention should be paid to the increasingly narrowing wallet of middle-income families. Mr. Chairman. I realize that my final questions are not an easy one, but I think and I hope that the Prime Minister can reflect on them, and that he can also answer my question as to what he is going to do to reduce the gap between paper and reality. How wonderful it would be if later on in his biography he would say that he really solved this problem. I think he'd just be very proud of that, and so would our descendants. My question is: what is the Prime Minister's response to the Court's observations? It is not just about the gap between the paper policy in The Hague and the reality in the country, but also about realistic climate objectives, understandable tax choices for entrepreneurs and, above all, financially well-founded public expenditure. I'll leave it at that, Mr. Chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u67	Thank you, Mr. Stoffer. I give the floor to Mr Azarkan, DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u68	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am also making this contribution on behalf of Mrs Den Haan. I have conveniently added her eight minutes to mine, as it is a good practice in the Chamber. But I promise you, I will keep it to myself within eight minutes. Mr. Chairman. I heard a colleague say: knowledge leads to more responsibility. Now I once heard a cabaret say: knowledge does not lead us to free ourselves, but that we see the contours of the prison better. You can chew on that for a while! In 2019 we received a credit card from colleague Snels and colleague Sneller, then another 300 billion. The idea was that ministers and secretaries of state should indicate their effectiveness and effectiveness for any proposal they made. That's actually the core of the Compatibility Act. For the Chamber, this obligation is an important tool for controlling the government. What does a ruler actually promise and how is it argued that this promise is achieved with as little tax money as possible? The better this is written down in advance in plans, the easier it is for the Chamber to control the cabinet and the better ex post policy evaluation. Mr. Chairman. So much for the theory. That's the way it should be. The practice is different. What we are doing with each other today is essential and an important pillar of our parliamentary democracy. Of course, looking back is less interesting than looking forward. For we see that the delusion of the day also determines our agenda here in the Chamber. And yet we have to look back to get a good look ahead. We need to learn lessons. Looking back is complex, but fortunately we can fall back on the researchers and the accountants of the General Court. I'd like to thank them, too. I thank the staff of the General Court, who have worked hard to provide us with information. And I am also grateful that, as a parliament, we have an institution like the Court of Auditors, which supports us in this. "Wednesday, chopping day." So it was on the third Wednesday of May. Then we received the annual papers. When we look at the annual reports of the government and the reports of the General Court, we see a bad picture. Not only has the cabinet failed over the past year, but the trend is also extremely serious and worrying. Of the commitments entered into, 15.5 billion is not lawful. That's 5% of the government's total expenditure. And it's five times higher than the norm. This was already the case before the crisis in 2019. At that time, it was over 1%. By 2020 it was 2.5%. In 2021 it was 5%, so there was another doubling. So in all these years, those boundaries were crossed. And to give you an idea, I say: this amount is as high as all the expenditures of the municipalities of Amsterdam, Rotterdam, The Hague and Utrecht put together, and then another 1 billion. But expenditure also exceeds the tolerance limit of 1%. Of EUR 3.3 billion, legality cannot be established. And the biggest problems are again with VWS, Finance and Defense: the usual suspects. At VWS there is an improvement, but still a great injustice. In the case of VWS, it was 4.1 billion, 1.3 billion in the case of Defense and 1.5 billion in the case of Finance. 54% of the illegalities are linked to the corona crisis measures. The triangle VWS, Finance and Defense has been a financial Bermuda triangle for years in which tax money seems to disappear inimitable. And then we had the EUR 7.9 billion at EZK whose legality could not initially be established. It has been done by emergency procedures at the very last moment, after objections have been made. I find that strange. Does the Minister share the view that this makes the wrong impression? The legality of the obligations and expenditures is under increasing pressure. That, as I said, is serious and worrying. On no less than ten budget chapters the tolerance limit has been exceeded. That's more than ever. What are the ministers responsible going to do to turn the tide? The first reactions are disappointing. Although the Minister for Finance and the Minister for Foreign Affairs have given an official response, these are extremely vague. "Minister Kaag is going to do her best." She says: I'm going to avoid repeating mistakes and uncertainties. Minister Bruins Slot wants to pay more attention to implementation and feasibility, and she wants to "make policy and practice more coherent." Mr President, I used to have a colleague who said: that's like apple pie, we all like that, but who's gonna bake it and how exactly are we gonna do it? So it's not very concrete. I would like a more detailed response to the question of what the Minister is really going to do to improve this legitimacy and implementation in practice. Is the Minister coming up with an action plan to get back over 99% legality? Mr President, something else. Would it be an idea for the General Court to be able to impose real measures in the event of major irregularities? As a result, she would not only have to drop the ball afterwards at the Lower House. And why is the expenditure of the municipalities and provinces not actually subject to supervision by the General Court? Billions of euros are also involved, often financed from the Empire. How can the financial function of the Chamber be strengthened? I have said this a number of times. We have a Bureau of Legislation. We don't have an agency budget or a financial agency. Would it be an idea, like other countries, to set that up, so that groups can get support in that? Because, Mr President, where there is a lot of public money, there is a threat of abuse. It is only when the locks of public finances are opened wide that additional control is needed. The rules of these public finances remain the same in times of crisis: what is unlawful is unlawful. It is therefore sad and disappointing that the threshold of tolerance for legality has been exceeded both for expenditure and for commitments entered into. Does the Minister share that conclusion, even in time of crisis? The frequent use or abuse of Article 2.27 of the Compatibility Act is, in my opinion, too often an excuse, because the taxpayer, the creditor, the recipient of the benefit, in short, we all, we Dutch people have to answer to the last penny, otherwise heavy sanctions will follow. If the government were a citizen, it would now have to deal with fines, recoveries, seizures, proceedings, legal proceedings and exclusion. Then she would have been blacklisted and fraud teams would have been set up with heavy checks, perhaps searched houses, and ultimately they would have been forced into bankruptcy. But the government itself is apparently allowed to throw the hat at it when it comes to accountability. That's double standards. Does the Minister share the view that this is really not possible? Can the Minister of Finance and the Prime Minister undertake to do everything in their power not to exceed any tolerance limit by 2022? Because part of that promised new governance culture, which I have rarely observed, should we stop correcting what is wrong, taking responsibility and showing leadership? Finally. Last year, the President of the General Court called on the Chamber to take more matters into its own hands. The 24 reports that have been drawn up on this subject should help us to do so. In the end, the Chamber must take its own responsibility. The Chamber has to work. A first step in this direction has not yet been taken to discharge the financial report of the Empire and the annual reports of the departments in which the tolerance limits have been exceeded. I'm considering a motion to that effect.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u69	Thank you, Mr. Azarkan. Then I give the floor to Mr Dassen, Volt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u70	Finally, Mr President. Congratulations to all the people who passed today, including my son. I also realize that there are students who have failed. Lots of good luck. I hope the people who have to do a repeat are going to make it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u71	I think we all agree with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u72	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u73	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, of course, congratulations to Mr Azarkan and son and to everyone who has passed today. Mr. Chairman. Today we read that nearly 1.2 million households are at risk of getting into financial trouble, while there are companies that are making exorbitant profits as a result of the crisis we are in. Even decades of warnings on climate change are now coming true under the noses of all of us. Hitterecords follow each other at a terrifying pace. Every year we see that the weather extremes are becoming more common. Meanwhile, confidence in our institutions is falling further and further. The tide has to be reversed, but we, as politicians, must also have the courage to look in the mirror. For can the government expect trust from its citizens if it does not seem to trust its citizens itself? Because one mistake or one wrong last name on a government form and you have a problem, where the magnifying glass often lies on people who are already trying to keep their heads above water. People are expected to be able to submit and answer any receipt. Is it not bitter to note that the same government for the third year in a row does not have its own business in order? I quote: 'Now that we have to find for the third consecutive time that the tolerance limits have been exceeded, the question may arise as to what we are 'allowing' through our declaration of approval.' How does the Minister reflect on the inconvenience expressed by the President of the General Court? How does it look at what the General Court intends to approve? Mr. Chairman. With the crisis of recent years, my group could well understand that chaos and deficits can create problems of accountability. Unfortunately, however, the problems are structural in nature. We do not say that, but that is what the General Court says. I told you, the tolerance limits have been exceeded for three years. If this happens in the case of a European budget, as before, the Dutch Government will vote against discharge. How's the minister looking at this? Is it equal monks, equal hoods? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. If the government wants to restore confidence, it must, first of all, give real weight to the judgment of the institutions that oversee a well-functioning government. Does the Minister agree with Volt that we are not asking the Court of Auditors to report for nothing, and are therefore obliged to translate the main conclusions into structural changes? What causes does the Minister see? And what solutions has it already launched or is it planning to launch? I also ask this because we discussed this worrying trend last year, during the same debate. It was then Mr Snels who asked the cabinet per motion to examine the causes of this trendary deterioration. Here again, I would like to ask the Minister what has been done with the outcome of this motion. What lessons have been learned? And how do we prevent us from concluding the same thing next year and having to do the debate again? Mr. Chairman. The Court's report shows that we do not always know what happens to the billions that the government uses for implementation and policy. There is too little eye for it, as well as for the exact development of that policy. We simply cannot afford that. Because every euro we spend now has to contribute to a more social, sustainable and safer Netherlands and Europe, and to the future of generations after us. My question to the Minister is: how is the government going to control its own expenditure and implement the results obtained? Last year, the accounting debate also called for 116 tax measures, which together led to as much as 111 billion in tax losses. Several colleagues then addressed this proliferation of schemes with vague objectives, lack of support, unclear results and rare evaluations. Also then, extra attention was called for. I wonder: what has become of that at this moment? Mr. Chairman. It is positive to see that the Broad Prosperity Monitor is increasingly integrated into the budget discussions and into the budget cycle. At the same time, the report is full of points on which we, as the Netherlands, have to catch up. We have just talked about this: green indicators, skills inequality, trust and volunteering. But can it be without clear objectives and measurable indicators? Are our spending future-proof? Do they pass the generation test mentioned by Volt earlier? In other words, what are the expenses for our grandchildren and great-grandchildren? Can the Minister promise that this generation test will really monitor the longer term, including the 20, 30 and 40 years? And are there broad welfare indicators attached to this? Mr. Chairman. People do not see enough how their taxpayers' money flows back in the form of solutions to their daily problems. So they're right to ask: are my tax dollars being well spent? Volt has repeatedly come to the conclusion that the system crisis is manifesting itself on too many dossiers at the same time and that it is high time we gave the citizens themselves a vote that goes beyond the ballot box. Those who want to trust must also have the courage to trust. As far as my group is concerned, it is high time for people to think about these necessary changes of course. Mr. Chairman. Volt wants to shape this civilian power by setting up permanent civil councils, local, national and European. Major challenges that politicians have been unable to respond to for years, such as safe residential areas, the future of work or an energy-independent Union, can lead to breakthroughs in citizens' creativity. Citizens should have influence at the beginning of the legislative process, especially in order to offer counter-power to that great lobby force. In addition, Volt is also in favour of using and working with citizens' budgets on a larger scale. There are now many examples, both nationally and internationally, that show that people often know in consultation how to do it better and more effectively. Civil budgets also increase confidence and prove cost-effective: a win-win. Let us experiment with this form of direct influence on a larger scale than is already the case. I'd like a response. I would like to hear the Minister's views on these points. Could we start a pilot with a national civil council this year, for example? I look forward to a first reaction, because during the Spring paper we will come up with a concrete proposal to help shape the way to restoring confidence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u74	Thank you, Mr. Dassen. Then we're gonna listen to Mrs. Van der Plas, BBB.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u75	Thank you, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen in the Chamber and the citizens at home or in the public gallery. I notice that everyone here today starts with quotes from great writers or philosophers. While we're at it, I'd like to mention a quote, too, but that's my grandmother's. My grandmother used to say, "Walk with me at the rate of the weakest, then you'll be sure no one is left behind." That's one of the basic rules I got from home. We should also apply this grannyism here every day, with a healthy sense of farming. Having said that, according to the Court of Auditors, we can and should expect the following from our government: to get a better view of what is happening with public money and what is being achieved with it. It is not our money, it is citizens' money, which they pay to the State through all kinds of taxes. According to the Court of Auditors, things are not in order, to put it mildly. How does the cabinet view this conclusion? And what concrete measures are already being taken to improve the score this year? For decades, each cabinet was able to rely on sound financial management as an integral part of budgetary policy with sound farmers' understanding. Now that the accounts for the third year in a row are not in order, we too are concerned about the coming years. In the coalition agreement, just like EUR 60,000 million was put on the shelf for climate and nitrogen, when it is not clear how this is going to be spent, what exactly we are going to achieve and whether it is the smartest way. Mr President, EUR 60,000 million! While ggz institutions have to close because specialist psychiatric care is too expensive. Because those who can't come are too expensive. Motions by Mrs Westerveld van GroenLinks and myself to keep the psychotherapy centres open were blocked by the coalition this week. No cover, then, is the argument. In the meantime, however, there is at least EUR 60,000 million on the agenda for policy, of which we do not even know who gets it, what happens to it and what effect it has. Also, people can no longer pay their bills because of the rising prices for petrol, gas, food and so on. According to the Central Planning Bureau, this number can reach 1.2 million households.... not people, but households. These are roughly nearly 4 million people who can live in poverty, while EUR 60,000 million are on the shelf. I'd like to ask the Cabinet the following. Could the cabinet not have foreseen that prices would rise during the formation period? If not, how can that be? Mr. Chairman. Then the covid crisis. In the covid crisis, accountability rules have been violated. Mistakes have been made. According to the Financial and Economic Affairs Directorate of VWS, this is also due to the culture at VWS, which is not aimed at legality, i.e. not aimed at compliance with the applicable rules and decisions. Before the accusation comes that the Chamber is always so negative and suspicious: this is what the government says about itself. The test policy, costing EUR 926 million, has not been sufficiently substantiated in terms of invoicing. For 315 million in self-tests, no evidence of delivery to VWS has been provided. This is unacceptable. It is unacceptable for a government that works with citizens' money, especially when you consider that the same citizen is being cut or fined with one wrong check mark, if he pays a day late or if he turns in the accounts too late. Then there's the question of trust. According to the National Ombudsman, public confidence in the government continued to decrease in 2021. In order to regain that confidence, the government must first show itself to be reliable. Think of the earthquake damage in Groningen and the long queues at city halls when people wanted to apply for a grant. A picture of those rows has been used by the Ombudsman even as a symbol on the front page of the annual report, The citizen cannot wait. And why do people have to come and get their own money, I ask the cabinet. Why don't we take it to the people of Groningen? Why do we always assume that people who are not entitled to it may get money? Why not assume the vast majority, which is in good faith? Then a brief comment on the wallet of the municipalities. Can this cabinet ensure that the financing of municipalities is reduced and that the making of plans for billions of savings is stopped immediately from 2026? Can the cabinet ensure that municipalities, like everyone else in this room, can count on payments that are predictable and follow price developments? Mr. Chairman. While our country is picking up after a violent covid crisis that has caused deep wounds in all kinds of ways, many entrepreneurs are now facing a difficult period again. Tax has to be paid again, costs and wages are rising, and some companies reduce their production or close their doors a few days a week because of lack of staff. On the basis of data from the CBS, the cabinet indicates that despite the coronapandemic, 83.6% of Dutch people are still satisfied with life here. But the satisfaction has fallen, and has been at the lowest level for 25 years. A downward trend has not yet been observed, statistically speaking, but decline has been observed. The fact that we've been at the lowest point since we measured this has to be seen as a red flag, as a sign of danger. According to the cabinet, it is good news that despite the covid crisis, the satisfaction in the Netherlands is still relatively high. What this optimism is based on, we like to hear from the cabinet. At the moment, I see only that many people cannot pay their bills anymore and that we are getting an increasingly large group of working poor people. The broad prosperity, i.e. the state of the broad well-being of people in the Netherlands in many areas, not only in the wallet, is measured through the highly acclaimed models, and the cabinet seems to steer on averages. That sounds nice, but then it may be so, Mr President, that we are both on average 100 metres from the edge of the canyon, but that you, President, are 50 metres from the canyon, and I would like you to know that I am at the bottom of the canyon. When we look at it like that, we keep an eye on everyone, so also on the one at the bottom and on the one who might be on the edge, and also on the people who are safe. That's how I get back to the beginning of my contribution. Then I think again of my grandmother, who said: "Walk with the pace of the weakest; then you know for sure that no one is left behind." Mr. Chairman. The Court noted that there was a large difference between paper and reality in the cabinet and that the accounts had to be put in order. The citizens and their broad prosperity must be at the centre, not the paper reality. The House of Representatives also has a major role to play in this. Responding less to the delusion of the day, distinguishing more key issues from side issues and making more accountability to citizens, not only in election time but always. Thank you. I've got a little time left.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u76	Congratulations!
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u77	I'm not going to give it back to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u78	No, I didn't expect that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u79	My name isn't Eppink. No, I thought maybe it'd be nice to know where "minced day" comes from.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u80	Tell me.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u81	Is that nice to know?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u82	Sure. And you have 20 seconds left. So nice.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u83	I've got 20 seconds. Back in the day, the butcher always got his animals on Monday. He butchered them himself. On Tuesday the luxury items were taken out and on Wednesday the rest was turned. That was chopped and you had to eat it right away because people didn't have a fridge. That's why it's called "minced day." Here it is always drawn into a kind of negative context, but I actually liked this fact to end positively.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u84	It's good to know about this on Accountant Day.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u85	I do not know whether this will help the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u86	It's a fun fact, right? Thank you, Mrs Van der Plas. I shall now give the floor to Mr Ephraim, Group Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u87	Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands has traditionally had a reputation of solidity, economy and thrift, wary of wild business adventures, throwing money over the bar or administrative sloppyness. Well, the state's accounts wouldn't be too bad for a third-rate collection agency by now. Year after year, the General Court has turned a finger on the government. Successive ministers promised to get better: "Next time we'll do our best to get a good school report from the Court's accountants." And then it goes wrong again. The ministers remain seated; the same is true of pupils who have not understood the lesson. With the knowledge of today, I would like to ask what the Minister or perhaps the Prime Minister would have done differently. BVNL wants a smaller government and lower taxes. That goes hand in hand. The government costs money and does not generate money. The bigger the government, the bigger the waste. That's what we're seeing for the third year in a row. The ordinary hardworking Dutchman may pay the bill of that spilliness in the form of higher taxes. The growth of the almighty government, which wishes to interfere with every step of the citizen and which determines what is good for the people, continues unbridled. I hold my heart on climate and nitrogen funds, together EUR 60 billion. BVNL is also in favour of climate: a favourable location climate, a friendly tax environment and a fair business environment in which working pays and saving is not penalised. In short, a smaller government, lower charges. Mr. Chairman. The good hardworking citizen is plagued by inflation, housing shortage and towering energy bills and sees Schiphol turn into a day camping. He should not get it in his brain to fill out a form error once or to make an administrative mistake in SMEs, because the distrustful state apparatus will put him in the official meat grinder. But the state continues with flawed accounting, including unlawful obligations. That's about 5% of the total or about 15 billion over 2021. With unlawful income, the State does not have so many problems, but fortunately the Supreme Court has more or less prevented tax robbery in box 3. The fact that the accounts are not correct again cannot be surprising. The government does not have a complete overview of all its assets either. Its value is about 350 billion, as the Court of Auditors reported to us at the end of last year. All of us own ports, real estate, roads, bridges, barracks and so on. All these things add up to about EUR 350 billion, but how this is administered is not entirely clear. Mr. Chairman. If the State were a company, the CFO would have been nail-biting under the valium to await the opinion of the shareholders and the supervisory board. The Commissioners would then first check their liability insurance before giving a judgment. But maybe I'm too strict. Management taking the measure is always easier than self-driving. I would therefore like to repeat the message of the President of the General Court: a paper reality is emerging that is independent of real reality, and this problem is in danger of getting worse. "On paper, we approve what is not really acceptable," the Court of Auditors rightly said. The implementation by the government in relation to its citizens and the provision of public goods are more and more unsatisfactory. Society is changing faster and is becoming more complex. Both the Court of Auditors, the Council of State, the National Ombudsman and senior officials warn time and time again that policy and implementation are increasingly wringing. That is a problem for all of us, including politics. By always demanding exceptions, additions, modifications and adjustments with the best intentions, rules become increasingly complicated and sometimes impossible to implement and enforce. At a bank, the golden rule is that the back office, say the operations, should never lag behind the front office, the commerce, to avoid foreseeable disasters. That's what the government should do. I should like to hear from the cabinet that the feasibility and not necessarily the political will prevails on new proposals. Can the Cabinet undertake to do this? Finally. Too often I read that loyal officials write that it is feasible, provided there are no other priorities, the occupation is improved qualitatively and quantitatively within three months, the absenteeism is halves, the Prime Minister learns Chinese in one week and the Minister of Finance places himself in front of the semi-final mixed double on Wimbledon. The Frisians then say "I apologize to the Frisian colleagues for my statement it's just pouring. And that's something different than most people think. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u88	Thank you. Finally, we are going to listen to Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u89	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On March 15th we received a letter from the Minister of Finance. The European Union's budget was once again rejected. The budget provided for a margin of error of around 2.7%. For many years now, the Dutch Government has not approved the European Commission's budgetary policy. This year, the Dutch Government, together with the Court of Auditors, published an annual report in which there is a margin of error of more than 1% for expenditure and a margin of error of no less than 5% for commitments. Why should Parliament approve the Dutch budget, when the European budget, with a much smaller margin of error, does not receive a discharge from the Dutch Government? This is part of how we slowly sink into our rule of law. We've seen it in our tax office, who broke thirteen laws and where people were ground. We see it in the state budget, which has not been approved for three years in a row. I'd like to know how the government gets this right. It's not an abstract idea. Let me give you two examples. The first example is the Cathouse Scheme. It was announced within a day. I didn't think about it. There was no execution test. There was no debate in the Lower House. Can you do it? Are we giving it to the right people? That arrangement has run a long way. Do I understand now that people will not receive an integral assessment until 2026? And if so, is it acceptable for a government to fall over something and not even solve this period? Why did you agree to this Cathouse arrangement this way? Because the Chamber couldn't find any of it, but the money was already paid out. The second is energy compensation, Mr President. There are three coal plants in the Netherlands: one from Riverstone, one from RWE and one from Uniper. They will be compensated this year to be stopped. According to the latest reports in the NRC, it costs 1 to 1.5 billion. It's paid out nicely. There are also 1.1 million households that cannot pay their energy bills. In December, the government announced a €200 settlement, which was raised to €800 two days before the elections. But the bill still needs to be dealt with here. As a result, the municipalities shut this down because they don't know who they're allowed to pay the €800 to. Why did it take four months before there was a bill here? When do we get a definition of who gets this? Because if you base it on this year's income, people don't know if they're gonna get it. Then maybe they'll have to pay it back just like the supplement. They're terrified of that, I can assure you. If you do it on the basis of last year, you'll lose the people who did last year's job and maybe this year a little less, as a call force. I give you this: if 1.1 million households really get into trouble, and there were already a few hundred thousand in trouble, then compensating about 800,000 households is insufficient. Is the government prepared to change that? Finally, the removals. This is not a matter of financial accountability, but of moral accountability. Can I know how many children already have better relations with their parents as a result of the policies pursued? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u90	Thank you, Mr. Ommzigt. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. I would like to thank the members of the College of the General Court for their presence here: Mrs Barbara Joziasse and Mr Ewout Irrgang. I'm so glad you were here. The directors have indicated that they need 45 minutes to prepare, so I'm suspending the sitting until quarter to five.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u91	The next item is the continuation of the debate on accountability 2021: the first deadline for the cabinet. First, I give the floor to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u92	Mr. Chairman. I'm only standing here briefly, just to share the direction with you. The Secretary of State for Kingdom Relations and Digitisation will thus begin to answer the questions in the area of the Ministry of the Interior. What we are going to do, if you cannot live with it, is to say that it is not there in the second term, but it is represented by officials. Sigrid Kaag and I will be able to answer further questions and motions, but there are very few questions in her area. Then I will come back for a number of more general questions and the questions that have been asked about the Ministries of Foreign Affairs and VWS. And then as pièce de résistance the Minister of Finance will answer all questions about financial management, accountability, the Monitor Brede Welvaart, and the questions that have been asked about the other ministries, especially EZK, Defence, of course Finance and also SZW. If it's all right with you, Mr. Chairman, I'll make room for Mrs. Van Huffelen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u93	I look at the members and I see all of them in agreement nodding, so the floor is for the Secretary of State for Kingdom Relations and Digitisation. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u94	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you for all the questions asked. I wanted to make a brief introduction to the issues of digitisation and then address the questions that have been asked about this and, of course, the other questions in the area of the Ministry of the Interior and Kingdom Relations. First of all, on the issue of digitalisation and, in particular, on the digital government, about which questions have been asked. At the heart of the matter is that we, as a government, not only consider digitalisation to be increasingly important, but also very important that people can participate in it and that the government fills it in in a human way. In March of this year, I drew up and sent to you a letter setting out the main lines of policy. An important part of this is therefore that secure digital foundation and a reliable government. That is at the heart of the work we are going to do. There is work to be done for this, and we do so together with all departments, with their chief information officers. We are therefore going to shape its further development in the form of a work programme which will be sent to you before the summer. A number of you have asked questions about the coordinating role of the government in the digitisation of the government. In the first instance, we play this role along four lines. An appointment's been made. That is the Decision CIO-system of the National Service 2021. It lays down the tasks and powers of the CDIs and the CISOs of the departments. Together they ensure that not only work is done to improve the IT systems, how they work together, how they buy, manage and so on, etc. They have also sent out a very comprehensive programme on this subject. I will share the main points with your Chamber before the summer. The second part is to ensure that joint frameworks are also agreed. That is what we are working on in the Ministry of the Interior, so that it becomes clear what the IT systems of the government should comply with in our opinion. This concerns, for example, life cycle management or information security agreements. We have created a handbook for portfolio management and so on, and so on. The third line of coordination is that we can ensure that we can also deliver. So we make frameworks with each other. We'll talk about that in the CIO meeting. Work is done on state-training programmes and there are training courses. Those are all things that make sure that we not only make agreements with each other, but can also deliver on them. Finally, the coordinating role of Home Affairs is also there to ensure that we commission the development and management of all kinds of state-wide facilities, such as video conferencing and the state-wide workplace. I will say a little more about it in a moment and deal with it a little more specifically, but these are the four main lines of co-ordination by BZK. It is also important that we not only work within the government, but also try to do so together with the other governments as much as possible, with our fellow governments. After all, it is important that the lessons that we draw, the frameworks that we set and the ways in which we work are as consistent as possible and can guide the work that local authorities are doing. In the context of the accountability investigation carried out by the General Court of Auditors, however, an important imperfection has been noted in the field of this state-wide IT management. That's important. That's what I'm gonna do, and I'm gonna do it together with the other departments. This concerns the topics of authorisation management changes, IT components, backup and recovery: all topics where it is good and important to tackle them and ensure that we get better at them. We've already gotten better than we were, but there's a lot more to do. The same applies to the theme of insight into the IT costs of the Empire. That, too, is a subject that has been asked questions about. I would like to go a little further on that in relation to the questions. Above all, it is very important that we ensure that we have a good understanding of how we actually spend the money we spend on IT. This is not just about large projects, but also about management and maintenance, about how we try to understand, for example, the hiring of people who do that work. That is partly insightful at the moment, but not yet sufficient. In particular, I would like to continue to answer the questions that have been asked. This was initially done by Mr Sneller. In particular, he asked how we could continue to fulfil the supervisory role. I have already indicated how we do this with the current frameworks of the state-wide I strategy, that we ensure that we agree with each other on how we organise IT and IT management in the government. The Court of Auditors has said something else about this, in addition to the shortcoming I mentioned, namely that the Court of Auditors considers it important that more should be directed not only on providing frameworks, directives and agreements, but also on monitoring and compliance with them. I am happy to take these recommendations to heart. I would also like to discuss this with my colleagues, so that we can take it up. Because more than ever, the more important digitization becomes, the more important it becomes to make good agreements with each other about the systems we use and how we deal with data, with information management, with management and maintenance, with security and that sort of thing. Mr Sneller also asked about the digital budget and the possibility of understanding what we are doing in terms of costs and expenditure in the fields of information technology and digitisation. I also think that question is very relevant. We're doing a few things right now. I think it's good to mention them. We've been providing insight through the dashboards we have for a long time. This year, we're gonna do something for the first time. In November, all ministries will send their multiannual information plan to the Chamber, including a qualitative understanding of their priorities and a quantitative, financial understanding of the coverage. From BZK we will give an overarching consideration to this. This gives some insight into what the departments are planning to do, but above all about how we look at it overall. I think it's important to do that. Even when we talk about this outline letter on digitalisation on 22 June, the question is what we can do to give more insight into the expenditure we are doing in the area of digitalisation. I would very much like to hear more from your room about that. What precise information need do you have? I ask this because, of course, there are a lot of IT components in large projects, for example, whether it is about building a tunnel or a road or building buildings. It must, of course, be mainly about those parts that are said to be: we would also like to have an insight into them from the Chamber and we would like to send them. We need to see how we can implement this step-by-step. Then I'll move on to the theme algorithms. Both SP and D66 have asked questions about this. The Court of Auditors has produced a separate report on this subject. You asked questions about that, too. The question is, in particular, what are we going to do to ensure that we address these shortcomings? Your Chamber will also receive a letter on this matter before the summer recess. In fact, I think it is important to indicate how we want to shape the direction on that theme of these algorithms. In that letter we also discuss the motions that have been adopted on the algorithm register, the use of a human rights test and the Handleiting non-discrimination by design. That's what we do to look closely at the question: what do we think we should be demanding algorithms? We are also in line with the demands that are currently being raised in the discussions within Europe. That's what we do with each other to ensure that when we use algorithms, both within the government and in other places in the Netherlands, we do so in a way that fits that which we believe should be met by algorithms. Of course, that already applies to the way you deal with data. It's about human rights, privacy and all that kind of stuff. Then there was Mr Nijboer's question on cyber security, also in relation to the situation in Ukraine. Of course, we are very aware of the digital threats that exist in the Netherlands and against our government. We worked very hard on that, too. We have a lot of lines that are followed in there. Of course, we do a lot ourselves in the field of red teaming. We're trying to protect ourselves better from attacks. We have the National Detection Network. We are also committed to training employees. We have security operations centers. So we are working very hard on all fronts to ensure that we try as much as possible to protect ourselves and, above all, to keep an eye on what is happening. Here too, we want to take further steps. The cabinet has made a structural budget available in the coalition agreement. The Minister of Justice and Security will come up with a more detailed plan in the coming period to make sure that we develop our cybersecurity strategy stronger and stronger. Some of the questions have been asked on issues that concern the Ministry of the Interior and Kingdom Relations, but not so much the issue of digitisation. Mrs Van Dijk asked how to deal with the control of provinces and municipalities. How do we do that right now? Mr Azarkan asked whether the expenditure of municipalities and provinces should not be subject to the supervision of the General Court. The system works in such a way that, as a state, we establish frameworks to meet the budget and the annual accounts of local authorities. This has been further elaborated in the Decision on budget and accountability provinces and municipalities and in the Decision on auditing decentralised authorities. Provinces supervise municipalities and the Empire is the supervisor of the provinces. The final assessment of the budget and the financial statements of the municipalities is, of course, to the city council and to a province of Provincial States. However, the Minister of BZK reports annually with a report by the municipalities on the report year on the main findings resulting from the audits carried out by the auditors of the municipal, county and common schemes. Following Mr Azarkan's question, the General Court of Auditors naturally supervises the activities of the Empire, but not municipalities and provinces. That's because they have independent accountants who do the job. In line with this, Mrs Van Dijk also asked about the way we look from The Hague at local authorities as an important partner in cooperation. Of course, we see co-governments as very natural and important partners in achieving a large number of tasks, whether in the areas of housing, climate or nitrogen. Together with almost all fellow executives, we are in close contact with them and with the representative domes on a daily basis, but also with the individual municipalities and provinces. Developments in co-government expenditure are closely monitored, not only by the Ministry of the Interior, but also, of course, by the Ministry of Finance, as the managers of the funds, the Municipal Fund and the Province Fund. Of course, we are also discussing bottlenecks there and we are discussing the bottlenecks we are seeing with them. There, of course, the balance between administrative tasks to be carried out and the financial resources available plays an important role. The Minister of Finance and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs are always in consultation there. They are also about resolving any topical issues, such as the reception of Ukrainian refugees. In the coming period, we will also continue to consult with the authorities to ensure that we always try to complete that balance.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u95	An interruption by Mrs Inge van Dijk, CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u96	I am particularly concerned about the following. I know how it works. I know the county controls municipalities. The most important thing is to look at whether the annual accounts are correct and whether any crazy things have happened. I am particularly concerned with the question of who ultimately decides whether enough money has actually gone to these municipalities. How can we objectify that a little better, so that it is not the wells-niets discussion that it is now and then, but we can somehow measure it better? How can we establish that more effectively? If those municipalities have a point with what they say, then we just need to get over it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u97	In the cabinet it was agreed to introduce a feasibility test for local authorities to avoid a possible imbalance between tasks and resources. We want to work on this in the near future to ensure that it becomes clear, because it is indeed important that these tasks can not only be properly carried out by local authorities, but that they can also be financed. Then there is Mrs van der Plas' question. This was also about the financing of the municipalities and the desire to create a new, stable financing system. We are well aware that as of 2026 co-governments have no clarity about their finances. Therefore, there are conversations with them under the direction of an external supervisor. In this way, we will ensure that further work is carried out to clarify this funding system. A contour note is written about this. Before the summer, the Chamber will be informed. Then there is a question from Mr Dassen van Volt about giving citizens a voice in terms of influence on policy and its implementation. He asked if we could not work much more with local citizens' councils or other forms. We've been working on that from the Department of the Interior for a while. We think it is very important to actively involve people in issues such as climate policy. Citizen fora can play an important role in this, of course with the right framework conditions, so that they can actually come out with good results. By this I do not mean literally good results in terms of content, but results that we can work with together and to both our satisfaction. In practice, there are several examples, including in the Netherlands. Internationally, the Citizens' Forum in Ireland is particularly imaginative. In the field of climate, in France there was the Convention Citoyenne pour le Climat, a series of civil fora that had been used to get more information on how France could implement climate policy. The Minister of State will shortly present a legislative proposal to renew and support this participation and the way in which we intend to establish the rules of the game. Hopefully the Chamber will discuss this with her. Then there was the last question for me. That was a more general question from Mr Grinwis. He asked how we could make people feel a little better helped by the government in all kinds of policies. This subject is indeed being worked on on on several fronts. The issue of digitalisation has an important role to play, of course, in the implementation of policies. It's very clear that there are people in the Netherlands. It's even a rather large group, about 20%....................................................................................................................................................... For them, it is incredibly important that we have that one public office that we want to strive for when it comes to improving implementation. We have also announced in the WAU programme that we are helping them not only to be able to move forward with us on the basis of digital services, but also to ensure that people can access physical points of contact. They're already here right now. The Digital Government Information Points play an important role in this. There are some of these information points at libraries. There are already about 470, but we want to increase not only that number in the coming period, but also the service, so that people who find it difficult to interact with the government in a digital way, because they cannot, do not want or do not have the means to do so, can go there and get help with the many questions they have about working with the government. We are trying to further optimise these physical points of contact, besides, of course, improving digital services. Those were the questions I was asked, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u98	Thank you. An interruption by Mr Dassen, Volt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u99	Thanks to the Secretary of State. I'm very looking forward to the citizens' council bill. I had also asked a question about civilian budgets. Today we are talking about the accountability and efficiency of policies and to which the money is spent. In other countries we see that when citizens are involved and really get a large citizens' budget to make streets, squares and bike parking more sustainable, and you name it, this happens much more effectively and better, that people feel more involved and that money is spent much more efficiently. I was wondering whether there is already a path in which we are looking at how we can better use these citizens' budgets to better involve people at that level.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u100	I think it is good to include this in the discussion on what the role of these citizens' councils would be, because we learn from the examples from both the Netherlands and abroad that there are different framework conditions that help them to be good and effective. I think it would be a good idea to take that with us, as well as the issue of what you are doing with the financial side of it and what role and powers these citizens will have.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u101	It's two different things, though. If it sounds like "we're taking it with us," it might become a small part of citizen advice, which is specifically about a particular subject, about which you're going to organise a citizens' council. Citizen's budget means making available a large bag of money where citizens can then provide ideas about how to use it themselves. Could the Secretary of State perhaps promise me that she will talk to the Dutch Association of Municipalities to see where the needs are and how civil budgets can better be made part of local democracy?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u102	As far as I am concerned, we are taking that into account in the same course of action on this subject. It's fine to investigate this like this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u103	An interruption by Mr Tony van Dijck, PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u104	I'm not sure I'm at the right place with this question. We leave the energy surcharge to the municipalities and it strikes me that we are transferring a bag of money to the municipalities almost one billion, I believe, and that now it turns out that half of the people have not had that money yet. That money is not earmarked either and therefore actually freely available to the municipalities. My question to the Secretary of State is: can the municipalities spend that money that is not being paid, because those people cannot be reached somehow, freely on things they like or should they return it? Shouldn't that money be earmarked from the Empire towards the municipality, so that it can be returned if not used? Or is it the method of throwing it freely over the fence in the sense of "see what you do with it"?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u105	We, too, apply the one-stop-shop principle in the Cabinet. Today's window will be served by the Minister of Finance, who will answer this question in more detail, because it is part of a larger whole. That question will therefore be discussed this afternoon.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u106	And will be answered?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u107	And gets answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u108	I'm not specifically concerned with this case. It's more of an example. Does the Secretary of State agree with me that we need to mark such amounts much more towards municipalities? A lot is being transferred now, including for youth care, and we hope they do good things with it. But if they can't, they can build a statue of it. I'm having trouble with that methodology.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u109	I believe that this debate should mainly be conducted with the administrators of the Province and Municipal Fund, together with the provinces and municipalities. There are, of course, times when it is very nice to ask a municipality to take on a particular task and to pay a budget for it. I can remember from my previous portfolio that it is sometimes very nice for municipalities when more money is earmarked. So I think it would be good if you also asked the manager of the Municipal and Provincial Funds. I think your question is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u110	Thank you. Then I would like to thank the Secretary of State for her presence here and for answering the questions. Then I give the floor to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u111	Mr. Chairman. Allow me to take a very short run through Mr Van der Lee's input on Niccolò Machiavelli and Mr Grinwis' contribution I miss him for a moment, but I am going to do it anyway about the historian and sociologist Max Weber. I do, because it fits so nicely with today's topic. I'm just gonna take advantage of these two names and these two guys. By the way, it's nice that they're mentioned here. Machiavelli is the great diplomat and military strategist from Florence. As we all know, he was a senior official in the Florentine Republic. Van der Lee also referred to this. That's gonna go wrong in 1512, when the De' Medici's come back. In 1513, of course, that beautiful writing will come. The question is: what is the character of that writing, Il Principe? I have been a minority for some time now trying to interpret that piece differently than the majority does. Of course, you have people who say, "Well, actually, it's an application letter. He wanted to return to the De' Medici's, despite the torture of which he had become the victim. He wanted to return to the regime." That didn't work out, by the way. Others say: it is actually a trap, because he tells the De' Medici's that they have to live in the city. They didn't do that very cleverly, because they knew, of course, that they could be the victims of another revolution. They lived happily outside the city, at least that was happy for themselves. Or people say it's a satire. I belong to that group. I always thought it was a satire, by the way, from a convinced Republican. You know we're a republic, too, where one family always delivers the president. So in that sense, of course, we recognize ourselves in that Florentine Republic. Then I'll go to Max Weber, the historian and sociologist. We are now about 350 years later, in the 20th century. In his book on politics as a profession, he actually set out the three ideal types of the politician, the public administrator, namely the charismatic beside the authoritarian director. But he also mentions the importance of bureaucracy. If you want a strong republic, you need a strong bureaucracy and strong support. Then I come to today's topic. That is what this debate is about. I've been looking at the websites. I'll see where all the reporters are. They're supposed to be... There are now two! They were not at the Chamber's term, but they have, of course, now come to the floor by Mrs Kaag, Mrs Van Huffelen and I. But first it was completely empty. The attention to that is quite minimal. But journalists, thank you for coming. That is very much appreciated, I say through the chairman. But it is crucial that we have these kinds of things, such as the bureaucratic basis and bureaucracy in the good sense of the word. As we all know, it was also Max Weber who talked about the government finally having the swordpower. The sword power can only be accompanied by... However, Machiavelli also mentioned the enormous importance of keeping the country safe. That is the core task of the government. We now have a key role to play in ensuring that there is also a strong economy. So I think it is quite right that these two great names have been mentioned. These are entirely in line with this debate. Against that background, I give this brief introduction. I do, because I haven't been asked a lot of questions. In this way, the longer speech by the Minister of Finance is not going to go away. Questions have been asked about VWS, for example: how is it that accounting is not yet in order, while care covers a third of expenditure? Of course, you have all taken note of all the relevant documents, including the progress report "Room Letter Progress Financial Management of the Ministry of VWS." You have seen that the financial function has at least been strengthened in 2021. However, these problems have not been resolved in one year. This calls for a multi-annual approach. The good news is that the financial administration, the accounting of the Ministry, has now been strengthened. You can also see this in better informing Parliament and guaranteeing budget law. In the Court's view, where quite dramatic percentages were still visible earlier, 98% of the cases have now gone well. This can be seen in all the underlying reports. In addition, the Structural Guarantee Financial Management programme will further consider how to further strengthen the financial function. I think you should say that big steps have been taken in 2021, but we are not yet at VWS. There's more to be done. That, too, is clear. In this context, there was also a question about financial management at the Ministry. People have joined us. But what is being done with the rest of the department, with regard to the responsibility that you must also feel outside the management of the people of Financial and Economic Affairs? Of course, that is also reflected in the progress report. The management itself, that financial function, is reinforced with 20 men and women, or with 20 FTEs. This is not only the case with the management of FEZ, but also with the different policy directions. Within this programme, which, as I said, is about structural security, we are also looking at how the whole department is aware of the importance of all of this. I think you will also see this in the figures for 2021, because a really big step has been taken. That, of course, affects the culture of the entire organization, in all ministries. Against the same backdrop, there was the question: what about the masks of Sywert van Lienden? Were they in the 1.7 billion? No, that is not about purchasing personal protective equipment such as mouth caps, not even Van Lienden's. However, the Court noted that errors and uncertainties in corona-related expenditure amounted to some EUR 1.7 billion. Of these, 1.5 billion are self-tests delivered and laboratory tests analysed. In addition, there was insufficient control information to determine the products or services supplied in full. This was not, therefore, the purchase of personal protective equipment. Again, the further approach to the control function within VWS is working hard to improve this aspect. Then you could say: yes, but perhaps it concerns the 200 million? No, the remaining 200 million is concerned with the absence of a bank guarantee for the provision of an advance. Then the grant scheme corona lanes in the care. Is it being properly evaluated? I have to say quite frankly that it has not yet been decided on how VWS is going to evaluate that subsidy scheme, because it is still under way. The deadline is now 30 June 2022. As soon as more information is available, the Chamber will be informed. As you know, we are also working on a broader letter on labour shortages. The insights about this subsidy scheme are also included. Then there is the question: will proper procurement be considered when preparing for a new outbreak? Yeah, absolutely. We are also doing this by already launching calls for tenders to be sufficiently prepared for all possible scenarios. Mr. Chairman. Then there are a few other questions. One question was about the sustainable development goals, the so-called Sustainable Development Goals. As you know, we have embraced it. The problem is, however, that they can be better anchored in our entire policy. I still think so. I know that we have both made an effort to see if you can use this much more as a cross-cutting red thread. That's a little tricky. I think we should work on that. The problem... What I want to say here is that it is a coherent, universal agenda, but you have to be extremely careful that we not only consider it to be something that goes abroad and that we do not have our own system once you cross the border. No, it must of course be anchored in our own thinking and working. The SDGs are embraced worldwide as a shared plan to secure both human well-being and prosperity for the future. These are very important issues, not only for what used to be the third world, but also for the whole world, including the Netherlands. We have now asked the PBL to check where there is a trade-out between climate policy and the SDGs. An example of this is SDG 7, about water and everything related to it. The public report of the PBL states that the SDG agenda is mainly synergistic, even if you apply it nationally. So we are playing into that, even if there is a risk of exchange, for example, I would just mention one biofuels that compete with the food supply. That's what we're trying to prevent. There is another letter on it from, I think, the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation. At least that letter's from the State Department. Then there's the question of power inequality.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u112	You have another question about that? I call Mr Van Raan, Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u113	Thank you for explaining the SDGs. There is indeed an intertwinedness with all these topics. I was wondering if I could spare the Chamber a motion. There are really serious noises that there are problems with those SDGs. The main problem is, in fact, that it presupposes or considers economic growth to be necessary which is not decoupled from emissions. One SDG is an exception, because it says: you have to do your growth sustainable. But it doesn't seem to work. Now 100 scientists have advised the UN that it might be better to stop, because it is either too much greenwashing or all the raw materials are up by the time you reach the SDGs to a certain level. That doesn't seem to be the point. So a serious warning is actually being given. My question to the Prime Minister is whether he is prepared to investigate that warning further. That saves another motion, and maybe the investigation will pay off.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u114	I am not myself, but I will, of course, follow it very closely with everything I am allowed to chair. I'm also gonna ask you to include it in the letter. My question would be: please do not make a motion now, because then I have to go in a panic to call the State Department. How am I supposed to respond to this motion? That letter is coming and I am now going to ask for this aspect to be included, perhaps in a general sense, but that is more of a cri de coeur. Of course, the SDGs are not a perfect abstraction of reality either, but it is a way to conduct the conversation, to measure and to set goals worldwide. The risk is that the better is the enemy of the good. So let's not throw it away too fast! That would be my first cri de coeur, but we'll go into it further.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u115	I couldn't agree more. We shouldn't have a prime minister who's panicking. If he can take that, I'd love to. I think that's enough for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u116	There is also a question from Mr Azarkan van DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u117	It's an entertaining story about Max Weber and Machiavelli. You can clearly see that the Prime Minister has an affinity with history, but I would have liked him to have reflected up to the highest level, namely the trend. I mean, just look back at the fact that this Prime Minister is leading a cabinet team in which the irregularities have grown enormously over the past three years. That is what you have to relate to the fact that there are hugely ambitious plans, the fact that a number of problems are really deep, namely the ICT systems, the fact that there are late tenders every time, that rules are not being complied with, that we lack hundreds of financial specialists, and that we really have a huge problem with the provision of information in the Tax Administration since 2014. So I really want a reflection on that from the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u118	The Minister of Finance will, of course, fill in this further, but let me say a few things about it, because Mr Azarkan has, of course, taken des Pudels Kern here, including from this debate. What happens there is indeed not good. Moreover, I think it is important to note that these major irregularities occur in principle in the context of the occasional issues. For example, 53% of the unlawful expenditure and 54% of the unlawful liabilities are directly linked to corona. So that does show something. It is no reason to trivialize this and therefore we are very motivated. The Minister and I, as chairman of the Council of Ministers, are very motivated to ensure that not everyone starts thinking: the Minister responsible for the system solves it; I don't have to do anything anymore. No, we'll do that together. This is how we try to ensure that we no longer exceed that standard in the end. It is, as you know, above all about the obligations. This is also clear from the Court of Auditors' report. I have that with me, of course, and you have read all of it. I think it is a very good and very readable report. It also shows exactly where the problem is at this point. So we are going to do this now, but I think you have to see that in the last few years there has been a unique and special situation that has had a significant impact on this. Corona is not an excuse, but it is an explanation that requires us to proceed with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u119	The question then is to what extent the crisis situation can be brought about in support of a number of choices that could have been really different. The Court of Auditors is also critical of this, namely that it is not too often possible to invoke Article 2.27, as Mr Heinen of the VVD pointed out. I was given the impression that there was little urgency in responding from the ministries to that statement by the General Court. So I would like to ask the Prime Minister if he, if you want to get this under control and not let it get any further, is looking together with the Minister of Finance at something from an action plan or perhaps something from a crisis plan. Otherwise, this will continue. Again, I would also point out that there are enormous ambitious tasks. Of this, the General Court also says that they are almost impossible to achieve. The chance that next year, and especially in the years after that, if this cabinet is there, I hope not, but we are only going to have to assume that there is underexhaustment, that there is not being met, that the ICT systems...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u120	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u121	We're at an important point. What have we learned from the past and how do we ensure that we do it better in the future?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u122	The faint remark would be that the Court of Auditors pointed out to the cabinet a while ago the existence of the article and said: you never really use it. That is no reason why it is being used too much now. I simply agree with Mr Azarkan that it is being used far too much. There are also explanations for this. I'm not saying that to apologize about you here, but just to actually determine what's going on. It also has to do with the Compatibility Act 2016, which has been in force since 2018, and the strengthening of the Chamber's budget law. It also has everything to do with how to spend extra money now. Of course, it's gotten more complicated. It can only be done after referral to Parliament, for very good reasons. There are, for example, a number of aspects that could be mentioned. We also get more and more used to it that everything can be done quickly. That is the case in many ways. Of course, the Chamber, the Cabinet, all of us, all of society, often ask for speed. Of course, that played all in the heaviness of the corona crisis, because that virus didn't wait. That's no reason to go through with this. We really want to reduce this. I think it's a joint search. In this way, the Minister for Finance looks at all the actions that are being taken, but also at this: this can only be done if we work together. However, that actually applies to the whole of financial management. It only works if there's a shoulder lock between AZ and Finance. That goes for this too. But the further precise answer will be Sigrid Kaag in no time. Mr. Chairman. There was also a question about power inequality. As you know, we're working on the ibo. It'll be for the summer. In my view, we also said something about this in the letter on the Spring Note, namely that we are still working on it and that it is obvious that we may be able to come up with proposals on that basis. It will also be part of the wider purchasing power debate this summer. If you look through your eye hairs at the developments, you can see that the income in the Netherlands is quite decent. Differences are fairly limited, with the exception of a single outlier in large business. But when you look at the power inequality, you see that there seems to be a certain distortion of growth. So we are going to look at this very precisely, without political taboos, on the basis of the ibo, also in line with the discussion we had here at the start of the cabinet. Then there's the extra stamp. I apologize again, including to the Court of Auditors. That was, of course, an inappropriate comment in that previous Accountability debate. It had to do with me saying: sorry, but if you have to send it to the First Chamber with a stamp... that's the explanation, but it was inappropriate. We shouldn't have done that. It was too disrespectful. That is what I said to the President of the Court of Auditors this week. I think it is right that the General Court has considered these expenditure to be unlawful. The point is that both the Second and the First Chamber are properly informed, that the parliamentary process has its way through, so I should not have put it that way. Then Mr Alkaya asked a number of questions, which are the last I would like to answer actively here; I can see if there are any further questions about the unity in society, how we keep them and how we listen to signals about whether or not the government is accessible. I think that is a subject that is very central to the coalition agreement. The most important sentence for me is: "We are working on a government that is reliable, serviceable, close and just." We also want to touch on what has been said about it, in my opinion, and that people can always come into personal contact with the government, for example through a point of contact where people can contact questions, and that essential services are kept as much as possible. There is then again in our process the Work on Implementation program. Of course we are not going to bother people outside this room, but that is meant for the conversation in the cabinet, with the execution and with the House of Representatives to ensure that it also happens. I've been visiting UWV and DUO lately and I've been at a number of visits to the IRS. We are all very much on the road in the implementation, that is what we have agreed. In fact, you shouldn't say "in the execution," because that sounds wrong again, but just "in the public service" because they do. I'll get two things out of that. One is the idea that policy is being made in a tower in The Hague and, oh yes, then it has to go to the execution: can you perhaps do something about it? And when that test says, "Well, that's getting pretty complicated," we'll talk until it's not complicated anymore. I really think that's a lesson we need to learn from each other, that you need to connect those two worlds very quickly. The second is the huge, happy, quality and motivation among the people who work there. I was visiting DUO last Wednesday in Groningen. It's so special to have a look at what the people there are doing, the contact they have with people who have questions. I had an experience myself recently, at the Land Registry. As a simple citizen, I had to have something and that was also settled within a short time. Not because it was me, because I don't think it was clear at all who it was, but simply because it reacted very quickly. By the way, immediately with the bill, but that also goes with it. That $16 has been transferred. I just needed to get the divorce certificate. Even then you just notice how fast that can be done via a website et cetera. So I really think we should talk about it with some love. I think everyone does that, too. It is incredibly important that, in the end, in those large organisations, and also the smaller ones, who are engaged in public services, which take place intimacy with the citizen, with you, me and all the people in the country.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u123	Thank you. There are some interruptions. First, Mr Van der Lee, Mr GroenLinks, then Mr Alkaya and then Mrs Inge van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u124	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Let me start with the historical comparative words about Machiavelli. I also belong to that minority, by the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u125	Yeah, I noticed that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u126	He has also written a very beautiful comedy: La mandragonola, The all-ruin root. My point is that an entire library has been written about the interpretation of Machiavelli's work and that new publications are published every year. Now I hear the Minister quite routinely in this Accountability debate. The tenth for him, I think. First for me. I wonder, however, if you look at all the pieces that are there, what are the three most important new insights that you, as a primus interpares of the Council of Ministers, have drawn from all those pieces.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u127	Yes. That's a very good question. At least I have two. One I just mentioned. This is not so much from all these documents, but also from broader experience over the last few months, since the report of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry on the child care allowance affair. That is the importance that implementation and policy are interlinked, very closely linked, and that implementation is not implementation, but services to the people. Moreover, it will be exciting in the near future, with the entire implementation of the loan system and its successor. Because when you talk to DUO, they say, "Maybe it's all possible just now, but, oh, well, that Chamber debate. The Chamber has many wishes." That is a first test case: can we propose to design that cabinet with the Chamber in a way that does not add so many exceptions that it becomes impossible for the execution. That was a signal I got with that. Anyway, I think that's still on the right side of the line. Then the second. I will take that from the Court of Auditors' report on page 55. That's very specific about the damage settlement in Groningen. It's a real insight. They say that all the changes we have made to the way we deal with that damage and also in the reinforcement operation delayed the case rather than accelerated it. I also note in my own mind that this also applies to the child care allowance drama and its settlement, that in the endless debates we have in the cabinet and we have with the services and with the Chamber to see how things can be speeded up, the better becomes the enemy of good. 'Cause you all want to go faster, faster. All that must be done, but you will never get a perfect execution organisation set up on it. Because this is a drama that has arisen and you must react to it at the same time. One example in Groningen: IMG for the damage settlement and NCG for the reinforcement. Do you have to make that one organization again? No! Yeah, maybe you'd rather have one organization afterwards, but it's two now, they're working together and they're trying to split it up. What's the priority? If you do that again, you run the risk of closing the counters because people are first trying to reorganise everything. So that is at least a second important insight. And the third is perhaps a general appeal, to myself and everyone else. There are tens of thousands of people working in these public service organisations. I'll give you one example where you just see how integrity is being worked there. That example is about what in the UWV is called "abdominal conversations." In other organizations they are called different again. These are people who have someone on the phone or at the counter, and after such a conversation say: I have applied all the rules well now, but I have a very bad feeling about it, because this is really not right at all. Then they ask, "What the hell is going wrong here?" People will then look first: what else can I do there within the regulations? After that, two: what else can I do within the organisation within the regulations? And three: what can we do, for example, with the Tax Administration or with other organisations within the regulations? And if we can't do it ourselves, how are we going to change that regulation? This can be about anything: over collection incomes across annual boundaries; there are a lot of examples. So we have to let the people who are making these conversations be encouraged to tell us what else to do, after they have already done a lot different themselves because hopefully they will see how much space there is already to do it differently. But that in turn requires our respect for the people who make those conversations. We must trust that they can do so. They wouldn't be there if they couldn't. And they can do it, because they've all been trained for it, they've been doing it for a long time and they know exactly what to do in daily practice. That's three insights, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u128	Thank you for that. In fact, the temptation is great, but as chairman of the Committee of Inquiry, I do not feel free to go into that interesting inquiry presented by the Court of Auditors. So I don't go into the examples. I think it's a win that the Prime Minister can call three lessons. I also think it is a gain that he now recognises that there is a distortion of growth in the area of capital inequality. My request to him concerns his own insights, but also those of his colleagues in the Council of Ministers. How can we, even better than before, be explained in the Prinsjesdag pieces what insights have led to what changes in policy, so that we can also follow more clearly what lessons the cabinet draws from all these accountabilitys and processes and we can also follow the follow-up? My request to the Prime Minister is whether he wants to promote it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u129	I agree with the spirit of it. I even suspect that we are already doing this because, of course, the residue of all internal discussions is sent along in the new system. In the near future, we will also announce that we are going to extend it. I don't think that letter has been sent to the Chamber yet, but I think we have decided, or we're going to decide tomorrow. Sorry. At least it's about us sharing what we're going to do about internal discussion... I hear that's in the suburb. Oh, that still has to go through the Council of Ministers. Sorry, I have to take it off the agenda tomorrow now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u130	We didn't hear.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u131	I leaked something. But at least it's about us extending that further. So I think it's in there. I'll have it checked out and I'll get back to you in the second term. Let us not create a whole new bureaucracy for this, but let us see if the existing system and the sending of things can do that. What were the different alternatives? I believe that all of this has now been sent along with the Spring Paper. The Chamber should simply be able to see: "One has not sailed one straight path to this brilliant piece of work. No, there have been all kinds of alternatives and quests." Of course it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u132	The Prime Minister has briefly said something about how he would like confidence in institutions and public institutions to be restored. He wants everyone to see a face again and speak to an official. He really wants the human thing back. But the Prime Minister is actually the most famous face of that same government. I therefore wonder whether he really feels responsible for the fact that that trust is falling. And can we assume it's recovered next year? Does the Prime Minister also want to set an example in person, within his cabinet and within that government? Does he have plans for that? What's his vision on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u133	Yeah, I feel responsible for that. I am not guaranteeing that next year will be better, but I am guaranteeing that we will work very hard on this. When you talk about the general picture, it turns out that we still have a very happy country in which 83% of the population says: my life is good or okay. Take a look at the Monitor Brede Welvaart and the underlying investigations. The percentage of citizens who say that is falling, but it is not, of course, that we have collapsed massively, collectively now. So let's not exaggerate. But trust in us, here, in politicians, in government is low. Of course, that is what I care about, of course. I do need one thing from Mr Alkaya and others, and also from myself. We should not try to make legislation so perfect that we still have every last exception in the legislation, so that the people who provide public services at all points of contact and organisations can no longer implement it and can no longer deal with it because it has become too complicated. It's not like they don't understand, but then it's just contradictory and you name it. That's what we have to do with each other. But if we do, I think we can. The money's here. The people are here. The stakes are there, just like the motivation at UWV, Tax Department, DUO. I visited the CBR a while ago, at Alexander Pechtold, a very nice work visit. There are also very much smaller implementation organisations and I try to visit some of them. I know that my colleagues in the cabinet who are responsible for these organisations also spend a lot of time there. Marnix van Rij, the State Secretary working with the Tax Administration, said: "Mark, I've done so many visits now, and that's not only fun because you'll meet inspiring people who work terribly hard and do their best for beautiful things for the country, but I'm also learning a lot about what works and doesn't. It gives so much more insight. It also gives me ammunition in parliamentary debates, so that I, Marnix van Rij, together with the Chamber, or the Chamber against Marnix van Rij, do not beautify it all so that the Tax Office drowns in it again." Those are real examples.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u134	When legislation is so complicated that it cannot be implemented, we have a shared responsibility. Only, very often, such laws, regardless of legitimate points from society and from the opposition, are pushed through. I mentioned a number of measures: the job-related investment discount. Impossible! We warned about this, but it had to and would come. I have also given a concrete example that is now on the agenda, and that is charging. Apart from the implementation problems, I also predict a lot of consequences in society, which you are already hearing concerns about. Only, it's already settled in the coalition agreement. That is why I would also like to hear from the Prime Minister: if we want to restore that confidence, the government must also be open to arguments from society, and preferably in advance. Is the Prime Minister open to arguments, for example when it comes to charging? Can we still give up on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u135	Let's get this over with. I also heard Mr Alkaya mention the example of the very successful project abolishing dividend tax, one of my more successful initiatives, but not really. I think you should keep an eye on two axes. One axis is the political axis, namely whether you want it or not. The abolition of the dividend tax is not complicated in its implementation, because you turn off one button. That wasn't a implementation problem. That would have made it easier for the Tax Administration, but it did not prove politically acceptable. I'm not grumbling about that, it happened, but he did mention it in the same row. We must always look at whether it is really a question of implementation or a political wish. The SP is politically against charging, I know that. First of all, we need to know for sure whether we are not going to abuse the implementation argument, which Mr Alkaya would never do, but others might be tempted to do so in order to see a politically undesirable policy change happen. Then there is the question of charging and the change in the approach to student loans and the entire grant system how to put this debate together so that you do not make it unnecessarily complicated. That goes for all these things, of course. In my opinion, there are ways in which it can be done properly. Of course, you will look at this with all the experts, so that you can do it in the best way possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u136	Finally, Mr President. If you only have six interruptions, I will of course not mention subjects that are not in line with my political agenda. I am going to mention what I am opposed to, and the Prime Minister has a hard time blaming me for that. Checking's one of them. Does the Prime Minister say that he is going to look very closely at the feasibility and the concerns in society? I mention these two things in the same category, because that has to do with the basis of a policy measure. This has to do with implementation issues, but also with the impact in society that can be negative and that you can predict in advance. So you have to be open to signals from society. Does the Prime Minister say that we are going to investigate and that even if it is in the coalition agreement, it is not in marble, if it doesn't come out that it is not a good idea, and that we are not going to do it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u137	Because Mr Alkaya is so well aware of this, while that is one of the few points where there is some overlap between his party and the party in which I sometimes work in my spare time... Nevertheless, in the coalition agreement we have found a good compromise, driven from my party, in order to carry out a political wish in a way that could really be implemented and that can also work socially. But in general terms, for any measure, I am abducted from charging again, otherwise I will fall into a trap that will become politically far too dangerous to see how we do it with maximum public support, in a way that will also make it possible for implementation. But let's not fool each other: we have to make choices here in all the scarcity that there is. It's been about nitrogen for a while. That will also be discussed in the Cabinet tomorrow, as you know. That will also give a lot of publicity and lead to debates. This is typically an example of making choices in scarcity. You won't always have everyone with that right away. You gotta be real about that. But worse than making difficult decisions is not making decisions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u138	I like the fact that the Prime Minister says: "God, I think the subject in the coalition agreement is very important and we want people to always be able to get in touch with the government." I also think it is nice that he visits implementation organisations and indicates that he gets very good insights. But I would also like him to understand the situation of those 2 million people who cannot come along and are stuck with the implementing organisations. My specific question is whether he is also willing to spend a day visiting a local healthcare cooperative or a local library that really just works daily with people who say "help, I can't move forward."
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u139	Yeah, I'll do it right away. Let us look at AZ, because I understand that next Thursday's debate on the OVV report on corona may go out and will be replaced by another debate. It'll take a day off. That afternoon, I will visit a library and local healthcare cooperative - the examples you have just mentioned. I really like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u140	I would like to propose a number of examples.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u141	Very good. I hope AZ is listening in. That is the result of the work visit.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u142	We just don't know what that Thursday looks like yet, I'm just saying as a profit warning.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u143	No. If it were the case that the pencil-planned debate that I would have with Ernst Kuipers on the OVV report does not go through and I do not need to be here, then. Otherwise, another moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u144	Today, of course, we are holding the debate on accountability and we are being held accountable for last year's policy. I asked the Prime Minister a question about why the cabinet resigned: the childcare allowance, but also Groningen. The Prime Minister has also personally apologized. How does the cabinet look back on the achievements of the past year on both missionary themes?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u145	I sincerely believe that we are making the maximum effort to do this as quickly as possible, but it is incredibly complex. Let me get them separately. Groningen first. When I look at the state of the damage recovery situation, I think we can really get the pace right now. The working stock is now about six months. Arrangements have been adjusted. There is now even room to look at the non-financial damage. This was also the subject of my work visit last Wednesday to the Institute for Mining Damage. Then I'll look at the backup. We are doing everything we can to achieve it as soon as possible, but we now know that this can have a lead time until 2028. The last thing we have to do, according to my conviction and to the conviction of Hans Vijlbrief, but Hans Vijlbrief first, of course; he is working on this every day now is tossing the whole structure again. No, we need to see what you can speed up. One thing he's doing right now, and I'm totally behind it, is for the four villages above Loppersum that have been hit very hard, looking at the village approach, can you do it for an entire village? And just with that reinforcement make speed. It is being worked with man and power to do so as soon as possible. The same applies to the childcare allowance. I will not mention all the figures, but you know that 25,000 parents have been found to have been hurt. Of all the people who have reported there were 53.000 people who had a first test. 25,000 of them also appear to have been duped. That means over 5,000 more have to have that test. But for all those who have been identified, they are entitled to the Catshuis scheme and to the suspension of debt. There is now a tremendous amount of work being done to bring about a real end to this. That's gonna take a while. One, because the group is very large. 1,000 people work on this at the implementation organisation. It's a very complicated operation. But that's really gonna take time. As we see it now, it may even take up to 2024. The second is that, of course, we are also working on the children's scheme and the ex-partners' scheme. I think we have rightly said that we do not want to stack that now. That simply cannot be done. First of all, we must ensure that this goes as well as possible, and then we must include this regulation. That is really the approach the cabinet and the coalition are choosing. Once again, if we were to go along with the pressure that comes from all kinds of circles to speed up or to change the structure again, then I would also go back to the Court of Auditors' report, which we believe will slow down further. So I'm not proud of anything. I'd like it all to go faster. However, I do think that we are now actually doing everything we can in the area of childcare payments from the end of 2019, when we saw the full size at the beginning of 2020, in the course of 2020, and certainly with the report of the Parliamentary Interrogation Committee, and in the area of Groningen, with all the actions that Wiebes and Ollongren have put on it and with the current dedicated focus of Hans Vijlbrief.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u146	Mr. Chairman. It's a lot about the future of what you don't have to change now, isn't it? But I asked what the cabinet thinks of what was done for Groningen and for the childcare allowance last year. There are budgets, I said it, and the billions flew around you, so that's made available. Bet will have been there, too, and also motivation. But if you look at what the results are, just for people, both for the childcare allowance and for Groningen, then you can only conclude that the outcome has not been sufficient?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u147	But that would give the impression that with a different organisational approach we could have done more. I am convinced that, if we had all sat down together a year ago, we would have thought of something even more brilliant, but I think that what was ultimately conceived, including with IMG and NCG separately and the whole approach to the childcare allowance of "first now this, and now the arrangements for ex-partners and children', is wise. And then I think it's a mixed image. I am not happy at all that it is taking so long; I would like it all to go faster. But there are no magic wands now, and not even a year ago, to speed that up enormously. What we did succeed in doing is repairing the damage. In my opinion, and that is what the Groningen people are saying, this is actually going well, apart from the fact that there is a residual group for which much has to be done. But the reinforcement really is still a great concern and it is being worked on incredibly hard; hence also the village approach. And the childcare allowance: I'm very happy with the Catshuis scheme. I'm so glad we did. I know some of you here didn't think it was wise. I think it was very good to at least be the first people to give back their money - no satisfaction, just give back their money. And the further resolution of that is really going to take a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u148	I would like to mention two examples in Groningen which I think are really wrong choices. That is the law on damage and repair, which the Prime Minister now says should not be combined anymore; that is too much organizational stuff. The PvdA voted against it at the time, and precisely for this reason: because if you take that apart, it would not work. The second is that when gas extraction was reduced, it was decided to put everything on hold with the reinforcement and so on. There's been a lot of unrest. We then supported a motion of censure against Minister Wiebes. We do not do that lightly, but then we said: this really draws all the ground from Groningen; you actually have to come up with a village approach like it has not been announced now. But I suggested that two years ago. I think that is two things that I think the cabinet might have recognised in advance: perhaps we should have done this in one hand; we didn't actually do that right. Yeah, that you're not gonna do it anymore, I get it. So I think that such a responsibility is part of it, too, to see if it wouldn't have been better. Just like with that dividend tax, just in a sense, that it might have been wiser... But these are issues that affect people every day and that have not gone well.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u149	Absolutely, sure. Well, it didn't go well anyway, because it is of course terrible earthquakes, and also of course the fact that it took a long time before we got a grip on that situation. And with the childcare allowance it was that we didn't really know until July 2019 how big it was, at least, maybe we could have known, but it didn't know what it was, and it didn't really see the full size until 2020. So let's not try to convince each other about that. But still, about the focus in Groningen on damage recovery and strengthening, so we have chosen to say: in the choice between focus or synergy we choose to focus; one organisation fully focused on damage recovery, one organisation completely focused on strengthening. That is a choice that we have made, which I think is highly justifiable. I can't see now if Nijboer would have been right if we had merged it into one organization right away. Then you should discuss whether the synergy would have been at the expense of the focus. I don't know, but I'm glad he's saying, "Let's do this now." And I'm incredibly impressed... I wasn't at the NCG last week, but I was at the IMG. At other times I also talk to people from the NCG, and now they are working so hard, and now fortunately also to the non-financial damage, that I think: that piece is really starting to get going. And maybe that's because of that focus over synergy; maybe Nijboer is right and it would have been better in one organization. But the jury's out.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u150	Mr. Chairman. When I finished my contribution yesterday, it turned out that all my questions were actually asked to the Minister of Finance. Then I thought, "I can't do that." So I really did my best...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u151	No. I called you back then, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u152	Yeah, exactly. Well, I think it's Van der Staaij. But I thought, let me ask the Prime Minister one question. But I didn't get an answer to that right now. If he now says "that answer gives the Minister of Finance," which could also make sense, it is fine. It was the question of commitments and motions. As a result of the Van der Staaij committee, it was actually suggested that not only do this now in the budgets, but do so as well... Look, the Prime Minister knows what it's about, Mr. President. I'm quitting because the Minister of Finance is gonna give the answer. Well, that's fine with me, too. It was out of courtesy that I asked the Prime Minister the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u153	That, and all the answers that are about to be given, I fully support that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u154	Great, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u155	Mr Van Dijck, PVV, and then Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u156	I'm gonna go on about the execution anyway. The Minister is playing it down a bit, but it is of course too sad for words what is happening in Groningen and with the childcare allowance. The Court of Auditors says that in every euro compensation for Groningen there are 74 cents of expert costs. So all bags of valuers and experts are filled with tax money. They get almost as much as the duped. I heard that for the childcare allowance, an execution organisation of 1,000 men is being rigged. They want to grow to 1,500 men. In that case, 1,500 full-time officials will only be able to see whether it is right of those 40,000 parents to have had the euro, yes or no. Of course, that is not evidence of a flexible, generous organisation to satisfy all the victims of these affairs. Now I see the same thing with the TVL and the NOW. I'm holding my heart. First, the Prime Minister spends money on all those companies and their labour costs, so that these people can stay in service, and now we have to pay back EUR 3.5 billion in NOW afterwards. How do these companies intend to repay it? Those companies had to estimate their turnover losses. Of course, they can't estimate that on two digits behind the decimal point. They need to figure out how much revenue they're losing. For example, they think they have 30% turnover losses.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u157	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u158	Then you pass that on, you get that TVL and you have to go pay her back now. For that, you have to work with accounts and accountants. You'll be held completely upside down by that RVO organization because the government wants it back. I don't think it's so weird that companies say, "Don't give up on the compensation."
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u159	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u160	You give with one hand and then you hold those companies and citizens upside down to see if they haven't had too much.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u161	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u162	There are subjects, as Mr Nijboer had just cut, where the jury is out, to say it in good Dutch, who is right. But here I really do not agree with Mr Van Dijck. By the way, I did not make those packages, which were then made by Koolmees, Wiebes, Hoekstra and the three Secretary of State of the previous cabinet. All over Europe it is said that the Netherlands might... I am proud to talk about it, when I have really contributed zero to that thinking work. I have only been looking with admiration at the results of that thinking when they were finished, including with trade unions and employers. NOW, TVL and you name it, very targeted support. This is a huge amount of money, by the way. The Dutch economy is also recovering spectacularly. We have almost the lowest unemployment in our entire history. We have a problem earlier, namely unfulfilled vacancies. For that NOW, the plan was always to pay back what you don't need. Well, that's part of the arrangement. Sorry, it wasn't like: you get it anyway. On the other hand, however, turnover is also higher than expected. Then it makes sense for us to say: you didn't need that piece? Why would you leave that at that company? That's what companies understand. I know several people in my own environment who also had to use them. They said, "I get that." They've done better than they thought. I don't hear those people grumbling about that at all. It is also logical that you then show a bit of solidarity with the Netherlands as a collective? It makes sense for you to say: okay, I didn't need it; you'll get it back? I don't think that's so crazy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u163	That's the same as with the surcharges or with the energy compensation. You give people who can't get around at the end of the month €800. With that NOW, it's exactly the same. Companies forced to close by the government can opt for a NOW. But if they don't have 30% but 29% turnover losses, they have to pay back everything. But those NOW funds have been paid to the staff. In other words, and I am not saying it for nothing: there are 220,000 companies that are about to go bankrupt. The Chamber of Commerce itself said that last week. In other words, you first generously kept those companies in the air, and now you're killing them because they have to pay back. 220,000 companies are about to fall, in the Netherlands, before the end of this year. That is because of the implementation as it is happening now, and they have to repay everything. They received too much because they had 1% too much revenue in that corona period. Basically, the execution is not correct. If you give €1 compensation to Groningen and spend €0.74 on overhead and experts, you can't say: we're working on that execution. In other words...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u164	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u165	Again, I'm decaying. That NOW arrangement was perfectly clear. If, luckily, you had more sales than you thought, you also have to pay back. Small and medium-sized enterprises currently collectively have the highest profits in Dutch history. I'm so happy about that. It means they're coming out of the corona crisis very well. Of course, the catering industry is heavier than other sectors, but also the catering industry is now performing again at the level of pre-corona. Those are really huge achievements. If a statue ever has to be erected, it is for Koolmies, among others, but also for others who have worked on those packages. I think we have done this well for once with all of us, by the way, with very broad support here in the House of Representatives. Again, I claim zero of that, because I didn't contribute anything to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u166	I'm not saying those packages were wrong. I say, in the performance it goes wrong. In hindsight, at the check-up, if those people didn't get a little too much.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u167	But that was the deal at the start, wasn't it, Mr. Van Dijck?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u168	Yeah, but listen. There are now 220,000 companies on the verge of bankruptcy. I mention the deferred taxes that still have to be paid. We're about to have a battlefield. The Chamber of Commerce warns of that. By the end of the year, we will have a battlefield of falling companies, especially as inflation also causes purchasing power to fall. In other words, you stand by and you look at it. You don't see at all what's going to happen here in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u169	Again, about this NOW, I really disagree with Van Dijck. Then about the deferred taxes. There have been discussions with the Chamber on this at various times. As a cabinet and chamber, we have explored various policy options that can contribute to a solution. We have said that we are going to inform the Chamber as a cabinet about how we deal with this tax debt. I suspect that from Finance, Van Rij orq. EZK's coming. I'm guessing it's finance. That's all been discussed. Then, of course, you have the issue of bankruptcy. We currently have a historically low number of bankruptcies. There is certainly a risk that there will be some adjustment in the economy. It is very bad if that happens, but it is also not strange if the number of bankruptcies is increasing again at some point, because at the moment it is at a very low level. There is a risk that people may still be in companies that are less competitive and have less future and therefore do not go to jobs where they can be competitive. We have such low unemployment that we also need all these people. At present, therefore, there is a historically low number of bankruptcies and historically high profits for SMEs. I'm very happy about that. That fat layer's gonna be all over again. We're gonna talk about taxes. The NOW is in accordance with the terms of the agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u170	Mr. Van Dijck, the Minister of Finance is going to speak, but if you want to spend all the interruptions on the Prime Minister, that's fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u171	It's a matter of fact. This Prime Minister is talking about so much profit from SMEs. Research has also been carried out on this subject. You can check out yesterday's FD. It seems that the large companies, with more than ten people, who received the wage subsidy, have made more profits. But the smaller companies are all about to fall over. Actually, the Prime Minister is now saying: I'm glad they're falling over, because we can really use those people in the economy; we're running short of people there. You actually say: let 250,000 small businesses fall down; then those people can work for the big ones.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u172	Make that a nice video for the Internet. That's bullshit, of course. I'm not saying that at all. Put it on the website. I'm not even looking at it. This is such total bullshit and misrepresentation of what I just said. I'm not going into that any further.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u173	I have another question about the surcharge scandal, which the cabinet has fallen over. The Prime Minister just said that the Catshuis scheme is fairly timely.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u174	Excuse me?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u175	Cathouse arrangements. 90% of the people who requested him have had an assessment. Then comes the full assessment. The Catshouse arrangement is an advance. There are now waiting lists that go up to three years or more. So these people have to wait three years for them to be taken out of debt recovery before they're helped. We also have the kids that are out of the house. The 1,115 turned out to be there later 1,675. We do not know exactly how many were caused by this scandal. My question was: do you think these three years are acceptable, and what are you going to do about making that shorter? How many of those out-of-home kids have better contact with their parents? So I am not asking how many are already back, but how many are already better in contact with their parents through the efforts of the cabinet?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u176	I would now like to try to keep the organised traffic with the Chamber well. We've had a whole debate about it. The Chamber was to be informed again by Franc Weerwind, the minister responsible for this issue, in October. I said, "Look what we can say about that now." I can report that by now more than 110 parents of out-of-home children have joined the support team. That's 50 more than mid-May. Most of these guidance courses have now started. This has happened recently, because of course all of this has been going on since April. In my opinion, it is really important now that we take the time for the emotions that are going on, the acute questions, making the situation and the wishes surrounding the removal places exactly clear. This didn't happen overnight. The next progress will be made in October. I really want to leave it at that, because otherwise we're going to give interim information that is not complete. Then on the other matter. I think Mr Omtzigt was right to say that 53 000 people have come forward. In 90% of cases, the first test has been completed. It showed that 25,000 parents were actually hurt. They are therefore entitled to the Catshuis scheme and also to the pause button, so that those debts can be resolved. That means 5,600 people haven't had a first test. That remains to be made clear to them. They will be notified as soon as possible, but always within six months of registration. That's 5,600 out of the 53,000, say 10%. Mr Omtzigt is right about that. Then there is the question of an integrated assessment. This is now the case for more than 11,000 parents and other applicants who have completed the evaluation, some 4,000 of whom have been evaluated more quickly or have not been evaluated, as this can also be done. The reality is that it's really going to take a few more years to solve this for all the hurtdoers. We are now working with the Chamber to decide on the revision, the planned scaling-up and the spring decision-making on all the financial aspects of this. On this basis, the implementation organisation makes the planning. It will be made for the second half of 2022 and the Chamber will be informed accordingly. This is indeed about the people who in most cases have had €30,000, but are still waiting for the full assessment. So in some cases that could actually take a few more years, that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u177	So 11,000 assessments have been completed, of which 4,000 have been waived. So 7,000 have been done and 4,000 parents have said "€30,000 is okay, I don't want anything else to do with it." And there's a waiting list of many tens of thousands of parents. There are parents in there who sometimes have very serious damage. They've either lost their house or they're still in debt restructuring. They can't go anywhere. They are now told: you must wait three years; you must wait until after the period of this cabinet before we can judge you. Is there anything you can do about that? Does this Prime Minister, while his previous cabinet has fallen over, really want to say that he does not succeed in assessing the victims of this cabinet period? Is he saying that he is unable to get them out of debt restructuring and out of that constant fear of acceptance giros, bailiffs and blue envelopes and to give them any hope that before the end of this cabinet they may be rid of that misery?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u178	The cabinet will be in office until 2025. I hope so, but we'll see. I'd also like it to go faster. I am going to say this to Mr Omtzigt: if he and I, but at least I, who had all the discussions with Omtzigt, have learned one thing from this scandal about the childcare allowance and all the earlier commitments that have been made about how quickly we could get that done, but which we could not deliver, it is that we need realistic plans. At first, we couldn't live up to the promise that we knew how many people it was about, because it turned out to take much longer to figure out. At that time, we were unable to meet the objectives set. With all the misery, I think it is good that first Alexandra van Huffelen and now Aukje de Vries, the State Secretary who is working on this, have made a planning and have said: now I want a process that I can also deliver. Questions have come from many parts of society. Can we get the child scheme and the ex-partner scheme now? No, the implementation organisation can't handle that now, because then the rest will slow down. We'll do that as soon as there's room for it. It's gonna be a little late. The whole recalibrate is taking place now. Maybe things come out that can speed things up a little bit. I am not going to make any commitments about this now, because we may not be able to deliver on it. In the formation with this coalition we have really made the choice to donate really plain wine and say: it is terrible and it must be done as soon as possible, but there is no magic wand with which you can say 'it is finished next year or at that date for everyone'. About 1,000 people work very hard on it every day. If necessary, that organization will be expanded further. That's not the problem. And money isn't the problem either. It's very complex. They're people who are entitled to that $30,000. It's not like nothing happened. They know "I'm entitled to it and I'm in the process now." But, yes, I agree with Ommzigt that you want it faster. I'm really keeping up the lesson of the past few years and I'm not going to create impressions here that are untruthful.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u179	I understand the complexity of this operation. The original planning had foreseen that 20,000 people would be helped by now, but there are 7,000. That planning is now being re-evaluated. I see it all. I deliberately did not ask for a statement that we arranged it at the end of the year, because I know that this is an impossibility. I do not want to say that here, and neither does the Prime Minister. We learned that lesson. I asked for something else. That question was: what do you say to these people? Besides, anyone can sign up for the full test, whether or not you made it through the first round. Because that was a light test, there are people who say "I am indeed hurt and I want that integral assessment" and that is allowed. But these people have to wait three years, while the pause button is gone and the bailiffs are at their door. That's the perspective I'm asking. What perspective does the Prime Minister give these people, for whom his previous cabinet has resigned, who are now suffering from it, while Sigrid Kaag, Mark Rutte and Wopke Hoekstra are just ministers here again? What perspective does he give these parents in the next three years?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u180	I know that Mr Omtzigt feels that we should not have been a minister anymore, but we do not agree on that. I'm just gonna finish my answer anyway. After extensive discussion, the cabinet resigned because we said that we take responsibility for this. This choice wasn't black and white. In a number of rounds in the previous cabinet, we really discussed this in detail. In the end, we came to the following conclusion unanimously: "We resign. This is so serious and so big, we are resigning." Next, it is up to everyone personally to make the determination whether they are available again for the next period. For example, as far as I am concerned, I have made myself available as a list leader. I've presented myself to the voters. I am extremely proud that the VVD became so big, but Mr Omtzigt does not have to be happy about that. That's not what I'm asking. In the end, that is something we do not agree on. The second is that it's terrible what happened. These people were wrongly ridden on the sidewalk. At first we thought there were 300. Mr Omtzigt already had that much earlier, we know by now that it was much larger numbers. That is only to be praised for him, Mrs Leijten and Mr Azarkan. We've talked about it here before. But for the cabinet, we had those insights from June 19th. Maybe we could've had it sooner. All this has been demonstrated by the investigation. But we finally had those insights on June 19th. Then we took all these steps. Now we have the Cathouse scheme, the €30,000. That means that anyone who passes that first test gets that amount. People have a right to that. The debt approach is also stopped, the pause button. With these people who have been through all this misery, I do not want to promise that this is arranged on date x, whereas now the estimate is that this cannot be guaranteed. Mr Omtzigt asks me to do so. I'd love to give that my word. But if we know this isn't true, then I won't. Then I'm gonna get these people in trouble one more time, right? That's one thing. Secondly, I would like to say the following. It's not like everyone has to wait until 2024 or after. No, there's a terrible amount of work going on right now to sort things out. It is also a fact that people can still register until 1 January 2024. So that's just why it's gonna go on for a while longer. Of course, it's not like everyone's gonna have to wait a few more years. However, there will be complex dossiers where this will take longer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u181	I hope it doesn't cost me an interruption. The question wasn't whether I heard an earlier date. I understand this isn't gonna work. I know this organization is huge. The organization is even bigger than I thought. By the way, that group is bigger than I thought at the time. I didn't ask for an earlier date. I understand you don't want to make that promise. I said, what perspective do you give these parents? Is the perspective like this? You have now applied for that review. If you haven't passed the first test, you have three years to deal with all kinds of bailiffs and everyone who's at the door. You can't raise your kids. There's no way you can get out of it. Also the other group, which has suffered much greater damage, will have to wait three years for the complete test. That's also often with black files, by the way. Some of them don't have a life right now. That is why I am asking what perspective we are giving these people. That's the question I'm asking. That's not an easy question. I'm not pretending to have a ready-made answer here. You may also reply to that in the second term. I ask: what do you want to tell these people about what they can expect from the cabinet now that it is not working to their....
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u182	That's a fair question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u183	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u184	I know that the Prime Minister himself thinks this term is too long. This means that a perspective must be provided.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u185	I'm picking up that second-term suggestion. Why do I do that? I think I have the elements to answer Mr Omtzigt's question, but I also think it is appropriate for him to check with the responsible State Secretary. So I'll pick up that glove.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u186	Including the perspective for the out-of-home children.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u187	No, I'm sorry, I'm gonna keep that shut. We've had a whole debate about the out-of-home kids. I'm giving you the maximum information we have right now. There can therefore no longer be reported in the second term. I'm really sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u188	However, as a complement to what Mr Omtzigt said. When we look back at last year, we see that we didn't do what was promised to those parents. They are disappointed. We didn't realize it. I know the credo by now. It often seems to be the first sentence of Secretary of State Aukje de Vries and it seems as if that is shared: I do not have a magic wand. That's what parents shoot in the wrong throat every time. We know that. But the coalition agreement says there's going to be an acceleration. Those are the words written under this Prime Minister. How does the acceleration of implementation relate to the fact that we are not actually accelerating, but to parents saying that it is going to take much longer than we thought, because we were too optimistic?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u189	I also think, in part, that the coalition agreement is too optimistic about this acceleration, but it has not disappeared beyond the horizon. That whole review is aimed at seeing where you can speed up, but you're not going to report on that until it turns out you can. At the moment, I think it is fair to say to the parents who are concerned that as it now looks like it is being worked very hard and that it is not that everyone is working until 2024, but that it can be applied for until 2024. In that case, it may take longer. That's possible. Again, that will not be the case for everyone. There's a lot of work going on to see if you can speed it up any further, but I don't want to give the impression right now that that's going to have dramatic effects. Why don't I? 'Cause you're gonna get these parents in trouble one more time. They'll think, "Rutte says it's faster, and it won't go any faster." That disappointment has already been there a few times.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u190	Finally, on this subject. As a cabinet, and certainly as a leading player, you obviously have an expensive duty to make an 'unsuitable effort' after the parliamentary interrogation committee has acknowledged that there has been 'unsuitable injustice'. I don't think that's what happened, and I think it's got to be different. I would also like to point out to the Prime Minister that it is really impossible for lawyers to run away now saying: I simply cannot do my job because of the information provided by the Tax Office, so I am abandoning my client. The second point is that we cannot make it possible not to deal with objections and not to deal with defaults. The Prime Minister must agree with me that we should say: the last thing we should do is to put those people, who already had no legal protection, in that position again. Soon we will need an implementation and restoration organisation to restore everything that the UHT has done wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u191	Mr Azarkan says that he doubts whether everything is being done about it. I can't take that doubt away. There's a full-time, dedicated Secretary of State on it now. In addition, it only does customs, but in fact it mainly does this. Incredible numbers of people work very hard. It's terrible what happened to these people. The cabinet has resigned. It's our expensive duty to solve this, of all of us, as we are here. But that also includes that when you say at some point with each other that this is the structure of how we do it, which everyone, with the municipality and everything else, has looked at to do so as soon as possible... If there are such recalibrate points that allow you to speed it up, then you have to do it most of all, if that doesn't eventually lead to delays because you're changing everything. That's really one of the lessons since 2019. In my opinion, we have changed things in the execution a few times there I was there myself with the idea that it could be even faster, so that it was eventually delayed. That is exactly what the Court of Auditors' report says about Groningen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u192	I think a lot of people will be disappointed by this. We have just had a little debate with the Prime Minister about restoring confidence in the government. Of course, this doesn't help. I have another question on this and I hope this will not be another disappointment. After his resignation, the Prime Minister began to think very hard and would come up with radical ideas on how to restore that trust and how to restore relations between the people and the government, but also between the Chamber and the government. This involved, among other things, setting up a club where people can deal with complaints when they get stuck in the execution. There was also the idea that trainees starting with the government should get to work first in the implementation. What about those ideas?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u193	Those ideas haven't changed. Not all ideas have made it through the coalition agreement. You don't have to, because there are other good plans. In general, of course... Those were my ideas behind that cathedral as group chairman. I would like to say to Mr Alkaya on this point that this is neither for the cabinet nor for the Chamber. We can only do this together. The relationship between politics and the rest of the Netherlands is really a joint responsibility. I am not going to mention everything we are doing here, because I think that is a lot. In the end, however, it also has to do with how we conduct the debate together, with how we make legislation and with what we have just discussed, with the extremely difficult and delicate debate on the resolution of the childcare supplement crisis. We must not raise expectations that we do not think we can live up to.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u194	Thank you. I think you were at the end of your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u195	Yes, Mr. Chairman. That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u196	Then I would like to thank the Prime Minister for his reply. I'm gonna suspend the meeting for a few minutes so we can stretch our legs. I shall then give the floor to the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u197	I ask Members to take their place again. Mr. Azarkan, we're going to start again! I give the floor to the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u198	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you to Members for their reflections and comments and, of course, for their recommendations and suggestions. Before I start, I would like to briefly explain the cups or the cubes I have. I have a block in general with a short introduction. I'm just hoping to finish it. The second block is the budgetary process, including in particular the ISBs and the Compatibility Act, Article 2.27. The third block is everything about broad prosperity and everything about it. The fourth block is efficiency and the questions that have been asked about it. The fifth block is called "other," but I always find that so disrespectful, because they are really important questions. They just don't have one denominator. I hope that all the questions that do not fall under the other headings will be answered. Madam President. On Accountability Day, I sent your Chamber together with other accounting documents the Financial Annual Report Reich 2021. Today, of course, the primary subject of discussion is the question of the year 2021, and as Minister of Finance and Guardian of the Empire coffin, that subject is of course at my heart. The contents of that treasury belong to all of us. Good accountability for revenue, expenditure and its management is therefore crucial. In order to support my fellow ministers and myself in this and, where necessary, to draw attention to matters that need improvement or radical change, the Netherlands fortunately has the Audit Service of the Netherlands and the General Court of Auditors. Thanks to their hard work, we can use the audit reports and the accountability research, respectively. They are important parts of our accountability and building blocks for improvement. I am very grateful to them for this. The studies show that there are structural challenges with regard to financial management. There has already been a major exchange of views. The year 2021 was of course still marked by the corona crisis, in which we lived from lockdown to lockdown. It is a crisis that has also caused a great deal of suffering on a personal level. It was another year that asked a lot of society. The strength and resilience of the Netherlands have been demonstrated over the past year. It was also a year that demanded much from the government: a great deal of effort to minimise the economic and social damage caused by the crisis. Against this background, we are talking about the results achieved or the unachieved results of last year. I've got a few blocks. So I have already explained it, but before I start, Mrs van der Plas has not already been appointed four cases, of which I would like to make a commitment from the cabinet and the Ministry of Finance. I do not do that to rob you, but more because I thought it would give the debate clarity in the front. Then I will come to you with an explanation of all the issues and questions you have asked. Mrs van der Plas is not here, but I was very happy. Normally I google all those things myself that she said what the meaning of "minced day" is and was. I just hadn't gotten around to it. But when I heard her explanation, I said to the Prime Minister: I assumed all these years that meat-chopping actually meant "the government is being chopped up at the time and on the basis of accountability." That was my assumption as a citizen, I have to say quite frankly. I see Mr Azarkan laughing, but I may not have been the only one. At least it was my assumption. In my youth, therefore, it seems to have occurred that the General Court might come to conclusions which you would now say as Minister of Finance or as a cabinet: well, that could be much better. So I hope we won't be completely chopped up. But we are very aware of the necessary change, the direction and direction that really has to be put in place in order not to have the same kind of observations again next year, because three years in a row is still too much despite all the exceptional circumstances. We therefore know that we must move towards structural improvement. So, together with the Prime Minister, of course, and with all the members of the cabinet, I take the problems identified in developments of illegality extremely seriously. I will, from my system responsibility, set up a task force that will focus on the actual improvement of financial management in the Empire. The specific actions to be deployed will be specified in my deadline. Two. The discussion on the use of Article 2.27 of the Compatibility Act is under discussion. As far as I am concerned, it is very important that we return to an orderly budgetary process at the stage we know. The war in Ukraine has led to the frequent use of Article 2.27 again this year. You know the reasons. Nevertheless, we want to return to an orderly budgetary process, even in times of unprecedented uncertainty and crisis, because it is so important that the Court's budget law is fully respected. That is also a joint responsibility. In the assessment of the Compatibility Act, I will give the discussion on that article a prominent place. But I will also take with me the suggestions made, in particular by Mr Van der Lee, to see if and how we can fit them in. Three. On the whole theme of broad prosperity, I will focus on strengthening the integration of broad prosperity into the fiscal cycle, both in the Millions note and in the Departmental budgets. I have already shared a letter on this with your Chamber, I believe on 20, 21 or 22 May 2022. There will be a debate on this in September, but we are already working on it. The fourth point I would like to make at the front: I would also like to take with me the suggestion about lessons learned and detailed and better explanations. It was, I believe, another suggestion from Mr Van der Lee. The content, what has been learned, must therefore be taken with it as an appreciation. We also want to set up an internal system for this, because you can only learn a lesson if you notice it, if you describe it and if you include it in the report. Otherwise, it's an innerly processed lesson. That's nice, but it doesn't help anyone. So we'll take that into the documentation. You may think 'this all sounds very nice', but I would ask you to take note of the fact that this must be a change of course. I dare not guarantee that everything will be resolved if we stand here again next year. But I dare say from my system responsibility and from the professional ministerial responsibility that all my colleagues have, that we are going to focus on this. I can't promise 100% results. Far from it. But we need to set up the system in such a way that we do see a demonstrable change of direction, a real improvement and a strict explanation of the exceptions. The exceptions should once again be exceptions and not confirmation of the rule. Or just a confirmation of the rule. Madam President. Then I'm going to continue with the first cup, general. I would like to highlight the development of legality. The Court has rightly said that major irregularities should in principle be of an occasional nature. The General Court found that 53% of the unlawful expenditure and 54% of the unlawful liabilities were due to corona. But then of course you keep the remaining 46% and 47% respectively. The General Court therefore notes that EUR 8.4 billion, out of the total of EUR 15.5 billion of unlawful obligations, is unlawful because of the failure to inform Parliament in good time. Hence the task force, among other things. The remaining corona-related part of the project is the most substantial part, i.e. EUR 3 billion of the project relates to uncertainties in procurement and procurement. As you know, this uncertainty is mainly due to the insufficient justification for compelling urgency in buying-in. Out of the 3.3 billion in unlawful expenditure, 1.7 billion euros are corona-related, of which 1.5 billion euros, about 85% is due, in particular, to the lack of proper justification for the performance of the VWS ministry. I believe that the Prime Minister, the Minister for General Affairs, has already explained this. This picture shows that major irregularities result from occasional commitments and expenditure. It is important that, from this individual casuistic point of view, we avoid similar things in the future as much as possible and that financial management is reconfirmed and strengthened, I would say, so that occasionally it does not become de facto structural. That was, and I think rightly so, a concern that the General Court has appointed. Mr Van Dijck and Mr Heinen and Mrs Van Dijk have asked whether I will use additional actions from my role as system responsible. Yeah, that's my answer. Of course, I already marked that at the beginning. The total errors and uncertainties of commitments and expenditure have exceeded the general Court's standard. In the coming period, therefore, I will be working with departments to ensure that this year's legality can be shown to improve. We must do this from a supporting role, but also from a coordinating role. I'm not gonna sit in the trade ministers' chair. We take the role of Finance in the broadest sense. We're setting up a task force. We've already started recruiting, I say here. So it's not something we're saying right now. We are looking at improving financial management and legality within the Empire. The task force will in principle operate along four lines. Increasing attention to, focus on financial management within departments. That's behavior, too. It is not only awareness, knowledge and skill, but also behaviour: that one does not fall back on the option there is. For example, we're a little late, we don't know if parliament can make time, and, and, and... No, we're gonna do it in order. And if, in the end, it turns out that it can't be treated by the royal way, so to speak, then this may be the relapse. So it has to be reversed. It is therefore also about an interaction between first-line responsibility, which lies within the policy column, and the financial function within a department. Two. The monitoring of state-wide regulation and the elimination of bottlenecks. The important priority here too is to clarify the concept of obligations. So this is work in progress. Three. Accelerate understanding of any new unlawfulness by carrying out risk analyses. Risk analyses are extremely important. That doesn't just mean we want to avoid risks. The risk analysis makes a better weighting. We must, of course, do this across the board. Four. Knowledge sharing and training. Questions have already been asked about that. I shall come back to that in particular. We are committed to strengthening the knowledge of the financial function. This also means that the financial function of departments must be respected and valued. If the financial function says "this can't happen," it can't be that from policy point of view someone suddenly says "yes, no, but this is important." That's how it happens I can imagine from other roles I've had, not in the Netherlands, but more often in practice. I think many will recognize this. So more attention is paid to this too. With a small team, at least next year from Finance, we will draw attention to financial management, really take up the improvement measures and also push for a good approach. Once again, I cannot do this alone. Of course, I need my colleagues and the Prime Minister greatly to ensure that it is settled within each department, especially where the weaknesses were. So the interaction between financial function and policy is extremely important. I will periodically inform your Chamber of the progress of the task force. Allow me to send you a letter on the structure of the task force and a bit of a timetable. Give me the freedom to weigh the periodicity of the reporting, because sometimes you have little to report at the beginning. Then it may be that we have a debate with each other: that task force has achieved nothing. I want to be open in that and take you into what the obstacles are. Furthermore, I have already warned my colleagues within the Council of Ministers that, if necessary, we will proceed to take-and-shaming, within the confidentiality of our consultations, of course. We can start keeping a list. In addition, the positive drive of the champions who hopefully can stimulate others and also together learn about how it works. Some problems are really not unique to a department. Good financial management is good financial management. I think departments can learn from each other, too. Continuity of policy ultimately benefits from sound management, both financial and non-financial. Therefore, addressing shortcomings must be the right priority. It is also the case that departments are making the necessary efforts to resolve shortcomings from previous years. You have acknowledged that, and that is very nice, also for colleagues. The persistence of many problems takes time. In the short term, some measures... Previous measures have not yet delivered the return. The previous Minister and I, of course, are taking this very seriously. I now turn to specific questions on this subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u199	Would you mind waiting for me, please?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u200	Well, I still have a whole set.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u201	I shall then give the floor to Mr Ephraim of the Van Haga Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u202	I hear the Minister say that she likes to keep the periodicity in her own hands. I have another idea about that. I'd rather have a quarterly report. If there's nothing to report, we'll just do a zero. We do not need to hold a debate on this either. But I would prefer the Chamber to be able to control it without the Minister holding it entirely in its own hands. What does the Minister think about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u203	I do not think I said that, I say it to Mr Ephraim through the President. I said I'll get back to you. I can't say this about the first period. If I'm gonna say in three months... Indeed, you are right: if there is nothing to report, there is nothing to report. But first, I'd like to finish the task force recruitment and let the little team get to work, and then start reporting. In the first report I will also take you into account in the questions about the frequency afterwards. I cut it in half. I go on to the questions that fall under this general heading. Mr Van der Lee asked what structural problems the cabinet itself sees. And how are we going to prevent them? How are we gonna do it? The structural problems outside crisis spending are, of course, in the following, well-defined areas. I do not call it informing Parliament in good time. I call it not entirely compliance with procurement rules and contract conditions. I refer to the state aid tests that were missing or of insufficient quality. I call non-compliance with compulsive regulations, such as the Financial Management Scheme of the Empire. As I said before, the initial responsibility lies with each department. I also know that your colleagues will include these issues in the relevant committees. But I am really going to work with my colleagues, especially within Finance, to give them their hands and feet and from there also to be able to play an exciting role. Mr Van Dijck said that the General Court of Auditors concluded that the financial management of the Empire was inadequate for the third time. I think that is still polite: thank you to Mr Van Dijck for that. He says that almost 20 billion has been spent illegally. He says, "We promise to get better." And he asks: what and how is the plan? I think I just explained that. That's the width of the plan. But the other step that remains really important is the return to a normal and orderly decision-making process with far fewer moments of incidental budgetary decision-making. That is what we will continue to focus on. The fellow ministers are getting used to the idea that we are really out of the corona period. Unfortunately, the events in Ukraine and geopolitical conditions are a new exception. But it is in everyone's interest to make decision-making take place in full and at the right moments. Mr Van Raan asked whether the Minister for Finance was prepared to amend the Compatibility Act in such a way as to extend the discharge to efficiency and effectiveness. I understand. But I've been advised, and I'm afraid it's not gonna work. Charge can be applied to legality. These are subject to objective standards which comply with laws and regulations and which can be reviewed by auditors of the Audit Office and the General Court of Auditors. Apparently, there is no objective standard that can be assessed in terms of policy efficiency and effectiveness. I have been told that this is the sacred grail which the General Court, now no longer in the Chamber, is looking for. But we haven't been able to locate that holy grail yet. So at the moment this is not possible. This is not a matter of unwillingness, but there is no objective test. Mr Heinen asked: is the interpretation of the rules of the General Court always correct? With criticism, we must be very careful. How does the cooperation between the ADR and the General Court proceed? Are there any improvements? For example, there is a difference of insight between the Audit Service Rijk and the General Court due to differences in the judgment on the legality of procurement files. That is what Mr Heinen is thinking of in particular. Or perhaps not particularly, because I do not, of course, think on behalf of Mr Heinen. Defence has relied on this in exceptional provisions and procedures in the Procurement Act, and in particular in the Procurement Act in the field of defence and security. Defence itself is in discussion with the Audit Service and the General Court about the interpretation of the legislation. In most cases, the Rijk Audit Service and the Court of Auditors really come to the same conclusion. And if there's a difference of opinion, it's shared. Then one consults and removes the differences. In cases where there is a lasting difference of opinion, this often has to do with complex legal aspects that really need to be provided with a specific context. Furthermore, like you, we attach great importance, of course, to the independent action of the General Court and the Audit Service. Mr Grinwis asked whether the Minister agreed with the analysis that the departments lacked sufficient officials who had knowledge of the Compatibility Act and the state budget rules. This is a point of attention and concern. Fortunately, there has been a huge improvement since 2017. If you look at the statistics, there was a massive relapse before that period. More and more people are recruited. We also see this in the breadth of the government. From Finance we do a lot of recruitment campaigns for financial and financial trainees. Perhaps there are some MPs who have come here on that path as well. There is also the National Academy of Finance, which provides training and training. So there's plenty of attention to it. We are also taking this back with us in the task force, because if there are gaps in terms of human resources, of course, we have to solve that. Mr Van der Lee asks whether I can explain in my term what improvements I intend to make in the quality of accounting. We want, of course, to improve accounting quality and financial information. Two operations: improving the reporting system and harmonizing financial administrations within the government. There's an evaluation going on, as you know. Oh, it's done. It was sent to the Chamber yesterday and contains various proposals on how to move forward. Many financial administrations of ministries have also been merged in recent years. We are looking at what further harmonisation should look like, so this is also in the category of work in progress, I would say, but if Mr Van der Lee still has a specific recommendation, I would like to hear it in his second term. In the end, I want to take everything with me as soon as possible, so we can actually turn it off. Mr Sneller asked how the Minister would ensure that the lessons of Understanding Quality were not watered down and how additional steps could be taken. Mr Sneller knows better than anyone that the Quality Understanding operation introduced two new approaches: Strategic Evaluation Agenda (SEA) and explained the framework Policy choices. The departments are now working. They must ensure and maintain the new approach. However, it is important that departments themselves give priority to this and free up capacity for it. Here, too, the other Committees of Parliament are important to have the conversation with the Departments: what do you do with it, what do you do with it, what do you do with it, what do you look like, for example, in the field of education? Since this spring, I have also paid particular attention to the proposals for additional posts. Together with the Policy Choices explained review section, this underpinning ensures monitoring and evaluation, early in the policy and budget cycle.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u204	An interruption by Mr Van der Lee, Green Left.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u205	The Minister asked if I would come up with a suggestion in second term, but I already have a suggestion, so I thought I'd just ask that question right away. It's a good thing that task force gets here. The risk of a task force is that everyone thinks: it will solve everything. In my opinion, an important part of the Chamber is concerned about whether there is sufficient capacity of financial experts, accountants, accountants in all departments, no matter which category. We have, of course, had austerity operations for several reasons. Is that task force going to look at whether that capacity is state-of-the-art? If necessary, will any proposals be made to strengthen them?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u206	I fully agree with Mr Van der Lee's first point. That always reminds me of earlier years when you had gender focal points. Then everyone thought gender would work out, because there was a Focal Point. No. There is a state-wide task force, systematically from the point of view of finance, but trade ministries must also take their own responsibility to make progress. The suggestion to look again at whether there is sufficient financial and accounting expertise within departments and to come up with recommendations to resolve those departments themselves, with possible support from Finance, I will take with me and we will report on this. By the way, you can see in the statistics that there has been a huge advance since 2017 in filling the number of financial functions. I seem to remember that it's relatively in order now, but I'm saying that right now. If you look at the expenditure we stand for, the mandate given to this cabinet and the legitimate accounting requirements of Parliament on behalf of the taxpayer, it is good to re-examine and confirm and resolve it if necessary. However, the task force is not supposed to be a substitute for responsibilities that specialist departments themselves have. I want to make that very clear, because then I gave myself an impossible assignment and then I know that we won't make the end result next year. Then there are questions from Mr Alkaya and Mr Van der Lee. The Court of Auditors notes persistent shortcomings in the Tax Administration: when is the tax administration due and why is finance not yet in order? Finance, and in particular the Tax Administration, is working very hard to solve these shortcomings and concerns. According to the Court of Auditors, it is also a good thing to recognise this development has been demonstrated in resolving some of the existing shortcomings. But this too is a complex problem. It is really the ambition of the two Secretary of State and myself to be an example within Finance too, of course. We cannot call others to order politely and collectively, but we ourselves lag behind in the implementation of the requirements. So this is what we are talking about. Good steps have also been taken with regard to the availability of good management information at the Tax Administration. That is also acknowledged by the Court of Auditors. The ambition is that this will be resolved in 2022. Mr Van Raan asked what caused all these so-called unlawful acts. I have already mentioned it at the beginning: of the unlawfulness of the obligations, about 54% are corona-related and about 53% are corona-related of the unlawfulness of expenditure. I have already mentioned some of the reasons. They'll come back systematically. Mr Eppink asked whether the Dutch could get a good report next year, a report showing all the billions spent on tax money and whether they were spent effectively. Well, Mr. Eppink can rest assured. Whatever happens, every year you will receive an annual report and reports from the General Court. The annual report for 2021 simply shows how the funds have been spent. All annual reports for 2021, except those of the CBS, shall have an approving account statement. Annual reports, as well as policy evaluations, look more closely at the effectiveness of policies. That is also happening through all the other instruments I have just mentioned. Madam President. I now move on to the budgetary process, including the ISBs and the Compatibility Act, 2.27. I'll take some questions with me right away. It is good to look back at the budgetary process and the high number of incidental supplementary budgets. After this I will call them ISBs; excuse to possible viewers and listeners. I will also refer to the exception from Article 2.27 of the Compatibility Act. Many of you, Mr Heinen, Mr Alkaya, Mr Van der Lee, Mr Grinwis and Mr Sneller, and Mrs Van Dijk, have asked questions about this. We share the concerns. I hope we have clearly confirmed that. In practice it is of course also a dilemma, especially in unprecedented periods such as the corona period. The cabinet wants to be able to act quickly in response to social problems and to requests from your Chamber. At the same time, your room's budget law is either a big or the biggest asset. That must be secured, and we must work actively on it. Mr Heinen said this well: care versus speed. Ideally you want both hands to go hand in hand, but they just don't always go hand in hand. I'd like to make a preliminary distinction between two things. An ISB is a deviation from the regular budgetary process. This is necessary, for example, if the regular budgetary moment is too far away for expenditure or commitment. An appeal to Article 2.27 is a derogation from the normal parliamentary process. This is, of course, done if it is foreseen that the parliamentary treatment of a budget change cannot be completed before such expenditure or commitments have to be made. I myself have, for example, been faced with a request these days to do so, if necessary, with regard to the legal handling of box 3. Dilemma! It is not nice to stand here and then say: gosh, there I come again with my own suggestion to apply a deviation. Those two often go together, but they don't have to. In recent years, we have seen a sharp increase in the number of ISBs combined with an appeal to that exception. The cabinet wants to enable the Chamber to complete the budget law as effectively as possible. We really share those concerns. As I said earlier, the objective is an orderly and orderly budgetary process with integrated decision-making. There are three causes I would like to highlight. The Prime Minister has already mentioned them. Since 2018, the Compatibility Act 2016 has been in force. It strengthens budget law by specifying when public authorities are allowed to implement policies underlying higher spending. That's the famous article 2.27. Additional expenditure may not be incurred until a budget change has been submitted to Parliament. Due to this change in law, the number of ISBs will still be structurally higher than before this new law. Only, that's not enough, because that's not how you want to go into the future. Ultimately, we want to tackle what seems occasional, but because of the high number of de facto structural. Point two. We are also getting more and more used to the fact that everything can be done quickly, and that everything must be done quickly, because of social expectations, pressure or specific wishes, which also live with you or with the cabinet. The cabinet is therefore expected to act adequately and quickly. And you're right to ask that. But those fixed moments, which we might have been able to fill in more easily in the past, are actually at odds with the desire to act quickly versus the parliamentary days that can be spent on them. I've already explained the corona crisis in detail. During that period, of course, there has been a lot of recourse to the exception. What is possible, of course, is to discuss the question together: when is there sufficient urgency to justify derogations? And that is not only a technical question, but also a political question: how long are you prepared to wait; when is a Chamber prepared to meet in an instant? Once again, I would like to thank you for doing so for the debate on Air France-KLM's stock issue, in which we said in advance to Air France-KLM: we do not give any guarantees, the parliamentary process comes first; so if we miss the boat, then so be it. But I don't know how many times we can do this. There are a lot of debates. For example, there are a lot of interventions that cabinet members want to do, or at the request of the Chamber. It is therefore a weighing-up that I say through you, Madam President, but perhaps also to you, whether we can reach better agreements with each other, that a minister should make it clear that it is really necessary, but that parliamentary space is still being found. And that Parliament, if it is not, knows in the front: we did not succeed; we know that this exception is coming, but we are still going to debate it. That does not, of course, take away the concern that Mr Omtzigt has mentioned, which I shall come back to later on, with regard to the payment and the decisions that have been taken in connection with inflation. So this is kind of the dilemma. And I also understand that Mr Heinen says that the one-pager, to put it that way, is not enough. I'm recording it all the way. I'm gonna take a look at that myself. I would say: I would also put it down to the task force: is that really deep enough; is it clear enough? And that it's not a manual with ticks and then no seven in this case you have to place, and then it's good and you can go through. No, you can't use a manual like that. And we assume that people work in good faith. Parliament therefore also has a role to play. I'd like to get back to you on this. But I think it is good to look with the members of your other committees to see where the room can be found for the process for ministers to proceed in an orderly manner. What's next? An evaluation of the Compatibility Act is under way, and the effectiveness of Article 2.27 is once again under review. I have already made a commitment to this with Mr Van der Lee. And I also take Mr Heinen's input, because, regardless of what the evaluation says, we must be much more cautious as regards the application of Article 2.27 of the Compatibility Act. First of all, it must be said that the situation is in fact: always going through the parliamentary process; a category such as 'no, unless'. But we must also apply a degree of realism in this, because otherwise we will give the cabinet an impossible task, and then there may be no implementation or adaptation, nor the flexibility that is socially and politically desirable. It's still a bit of a search, I'll be honest with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u207	Mr. Chairman. The problem with this incidental supplementary budget is that we in the Lower House, as representatives of the people, cannot make an overall assessment. I'm just giving you something. You can say yes or no to that, but you can't say "no, we don't; but we're going to spend it on education," so to speak. That is why it is important that we do so at the right moments as much as possible. And when we find that we are no longer in a real crisis, such as the pandemic: the real crisis is over, the aid measures have been phased out, it is obvious that we can see that the number of incidental supplementary budgets will fall next year. Why, then, does the Minister of Finance not dare to say 'I would like to agree with you on a result; that is not going to happen in that way anymore'? It's been 63 and it's gonna be fewer this year. She says: I'm going that way, but I don't want to commit to the result.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u208	Mr Alkaya should read better between my words. I didn't say it was going to be zero, but I'm setting up a task force to deliver results. I said no, unless. But there has to be some flexibility. I am not going to get the whole straitjacket in advance, but of course I am taking Mr Van der Lee's suggestions with me. The regular budgetary debates and the political moments in the year have been restored. You can also see this in the Start note and in the Spring note. You will also see this in the implementation we give to the recommendation of the General Court. The ambition is very high, but if you ask me if it will never happen again: no. It's already been done. But, yes, of course, I would like to try to drastically reduce this with the cabinet. I would like to say that, not only in one year, but over a period of a few years, we have shown a total change of course. That's what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u209	If there is to be a task force, which will also look at the 2.27, I would also like to ask for an overview of all the interim adjustments to the budget and a reflection per measure whether this was really the way or perhaps it could have been done in a different way. I have already indicated in the debate that I need this. If we want to improve, that reflection just seems very good to me. So I am actually looking for a commitment to include this in the work of that task force and in the decision-making on how to deal with 2.27 in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u210	I wasn't done with this block either. Now here is the answer to Mrs Van Dijk's question: magic. Indeed, you asked for an overview of all the interim budgetary adjustments and the reflection per measure. I can only comment on the main points at the moment. There are of course the two regular moments, in which the first and second supplementary budget law is offered to your Chamber. But you know that like no other. This is not enough for urgent measures, but I have already taken a preview of possible adjustments. We can build a new system together. I would like to see where that overview can indeed be given. I simply have to come back to that, but an overview of all the interim adjustments in the budget will require some work. You ask for a reflection per measure. Some of the measures are all corona measures. This is already around 53% to 54% in the case of procurement and expenditure. There are also many support measures, such as NOW and TVL, but also additional costs for the purchase of vaccines, the increase in the testing capacity of the GGD. If you then make a general appreciation, we can all imagine, with the broad support of this Chamber, that these decisions were taken at the time. Is it perfect? Far from it. Does it fit in with the way we want to shape budgets? No. Do we want to get out of there again? Yes. But I will look with my colleagues and the other departments to see if we can make an overview with a little more detail, which is appropriate as an answer to the question. Mr Stoffer actually asked if I would sell a little more no. I can tell Mr Stoffer that I am practicing the many ways in which you can say no. The Prime Minister can confirm that. So that's work in progress. This will help, of course. I do not want to see us standing here next year with an x number of exceptions, which we say afterwards: is this appropriate? No. That's a no, too. Then I would like to continue with broad prosperity, but I see Mr Van der Lee standing there.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u211	Indeed, before you continue: Mr Van der Lee van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u212	I have one more clarifying question about the commitment you made in my direction. If I understand correctly, in the ongoing review of the Compatibility Act, you will consider whether it could be a solution to look more comprehensively at information and decision-making on budgetary adjustments at four times a year. Did I get that correctly?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u213	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u214	And in what time horizon is that about to happen? When will that evaluation be ready? Will we then hear the findings of the cabinet on that point?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u215	I think so, but I'll check it out in a minute. The evaluation will be completed by the end of this year. I can imagine that you are thinking: that is actually too late. I don't know if we can do it much sooner. I will also offer a technical briefing in advance and a few other things, so that we can at least take you with us very well and in time, so that we can start an improvement together. Then broad prosperity. A number of questions and comments have been asked. 2021 was an exceptional year. The corona pandemic still has major consequences for Dutch society. The monitor also provides that insight and shows how the pandemic has increased differences that were there due to the lens of inequality. A high level of widespread prosperity as a starting point for the crisis has provided us with the means to respond and to cope relatively well with the corona crisis. At least this applies to a large part of the population. As I said, the crisis itself was a magnifying glass of the differences that exist and of the systemic inequality that was naturally underneath. I mention the difference between children living in a small apartment, having to share a computer and one mobile phone and then having to take lessons and children who I believe Mr Alkaya called it in space with good parental support can take lessons or get rid of school retardation. That's a lot different. It is also right that attention should be paid to this constantly. The monitor, of course, also shows long-term trends. Those are very worrying in the area of climate change, nitrogen, education, we are really not as good as we thought anymore, according to the PISA scores and of course the large deficits for a lot of people in the Netherlands in the housing market. The ambitions and choices we have made in the coalition agreement are, of course, aimed at tackling these major societal challenges. One could say that cabinet policy, of any cabinet, should always be aimed at increasing and strengthening broad prosperity. In doing so, we must, of course, pay attention to the distribution, so that everyone has access to the important aspects of broad prosperity. I think that is what Mr Alkaya and Mr Stoffer said. Mr Van der Lee asked me a number of questions about the government's thoughts on this matter. I don't want to refer to a letter, but I'll do it anyway. I, of course, sent a letter on 20 May on broad prosperity and the steps I, as Minister of Finance, want to take to help achieve and monitor the process and thinking and planning to help achieve results of broad prosperity. That's where we want to start. We have asked the planning agencies to come up with a broad framework for thinking in the development of the core set of indicators. You can look very wide, but I think a core set is a good start. I also think it is right that we ask for planning agencies, because of their expertise, and that we do not make political choices in advance. They will also develop standards. These are taken into account in the budgetary cycle. At the end of this month, they will report on progress. The cabinet is also going to see how the factsheets of the CBS can fit broad prosperity into the departmental budget, because that is what it is all about in the end. If you don't spend money on it and you don't focus on goals and you don't make them measurable, then you'll talk a lot about broad prosperity, but you won't necessarily achieve it. Nor is it certain, I say in the direction of Mr Grinwis, that we have the necessary dates to put broad prosperity at the centre of every field, but it will be an important step. It still requires a little patience, because broad prosperity, even if you want to measure its impact, is of course always a long-term story. We want to be consistent and be able to report on it. Politically, the cabinet has committed itself to broad prosperity. I personally see it as a very important challenge. It will not surprise Mr Van der Lee, given all the debates we have had on the SDGs and the Climate Agreement, then in another capacity. Mr Van der Lee also asked whether we would be working on supplementing the general SME leadership with broad prosperity. The guide has now been adapted in response to the Sneller motion. The supplement to the guide was published by the CPB and the OJ on 2 June. This resulted in no less than 21 recommendations. The planning agencies are now working on further work on the recommendations. I am also going to have this conversation with the Prime Minister again with trade ministers in the Council of Ministers, so that we do not miss a single moment or opportunity to deal with this a bit systemicly and structurally. Then Mr Van der Lee asked whether I agree with him that it is important not only to look quantitatively at the sustainability of public debt, but also to look at green debt in the longer term. He also asked for the further integration of broad prosperity into, for example, social cost-benefit analyses. I agree with the thrust of the question. On the one hand, we attach importance to the relevance of the sustainability indicators of public debt and, on the other hand, we want the planned investments to be effectively done with benefits for broad prosperity. The core set that is being worked on will really have to fill that in. Then we need to look again at whether this indicates the long-term sustainability of public finances and whether this can be qualitatively and quantitatively. I think that a combination of both is always important, because not everything can be captured in quantitative data and the qualitative side is also very important. Mr Sneller asked what steps were being taken to link Article 3.1 of the Compatibility Act, the basis, to broad prosperity. Mrs Van Dijk asked about measurable policy objectives. The framework Policy Choices explained policy proposals are supported in letter letters in accordance with Article 3.1 of the Compatibility Act. That method was introduced last year. There is talk of efficiency and effectiveness of policy proposals. That is where it is explicitly supported. Mrs Van Dijk's motion supports that. This framework also offers, of course, every opportunity to take with it broad prosperity, namely by using the desired efficiency and evaluation paragraph to see how the intended and unintended effects are captured from the perspective of broad prosperity. I have also explained this in my recent letter of inquiry on broad prosperity in the budgetary system. I know that your committee scheduled a debate on this letter on 14 September. I will talk to trade ministers and expect them to fill this in, because broad prosperity can be seen through education, living, quality of life in the cities, and-and-and-and-a. Mrs Van Dijk and Mr Stoffer asked about volunteering and social participation. In the Monitor Brede Welvaart a deterioration is measured. I have to say, this is not something I deal with every day. The first speaker is the VWS Minister, but at least we see two important reasons for the decline in these two indicators. You are well aware of the temporary corona effects, the lockdown and other measures. It's just been hard to do volunteering. By the way, all the compliments to everyone who has found very creative and RIVM-like options to continue volunteering. In addition, net employment rates and hours worked have increased in recent years. This may also have had an impact on social contacts and the time available for volunteering. It's a bit of a choice between two desirables. We want a higher employment rate, because we need to fill the labour shortages. At the same time, volunteering is a role for people that provides a great deal of satisfaction for both those who are volunteering and those who can benefit from it. Some of the problems you highlight are not entirely within the sphere of government. This will also be acknowledged by Mr Stoffer. We give framework conditions and we give opportunities, but volunteering is so beautiful that it is genuinely voluntary. It's all up to the individual to choose what it wants to do. You have asked Parliament questions and research is being carried out into the underlying causes of experienced regulatory pressure in voluntary organisations. I can see Mrs Van Dijk getting up. There will be a look at possible ways of resolving the problems of the sector's own departments. In finance, of course, we are talking about opening accounts, the regulatory burden there, the Terrorist Finance Act. Mr Stoffer has also asked questions about this. These have already been answered in other frameworks. We take that very seriously. We want no one to be discouraged if they want to work in a legitimate way, including, for example, the accounting of a club or the opening of an account for a beautiful club. Mrs Van Dijk asks me about greater social participation for a stronger society. I think we all think that's important. I see that more from a perspective of inclusion. This is achieved, among other things, by greater social participation. That should strengthen society and the sense of sámen, no matter who we are. Taking part in a society is important for everyone, regardless of what knowledge or skill one has, what limitations one has in life, or what setbacks one has experienced. It also often contributes to the security of life of people, but ultimately, the core of social participation is respect and heard and seen as human, in all stages of your life. For some, a paid job is not possible. In that case, volunteering is certainly an equally important contribution to society. I think we can all endorse that, regardless of our political motivations. Then a question was asked about the do-it-yourself test. The motion was tabled on 24 March. The test can be applied to schemes that affect income and the Chamber wants to be informed about it in September 2023. How does the cabinet view the approach of that motion? The Cabinet conducts a global do-it-yourself scan of all tax measures. A full power scan will follow and will be reported in the Tax Plan and other legislation sent to the Chamber. I wonder if this is a lost answer to a question that has never been asked, but happens to be part of another debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u216	It was a question from Mrs Inge van Dijk. It was definitely a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u217	I thought it was a question from Mrs. Inge van Dijk. I saw her look slightly surprised. It can happen in the hard work that is being done.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u218	This motion has been submitted to the debate on the report 'Clamp between desk and policy'. It called for specific attention to be paid to the implementation tests, in particular when these income-related schemes are affected. We do indeed have the motion that we want to reflect on this next year. It comes back every time and every time we see how important it is. That is why my question is: can you tell me what you are doing with that motion, what you intend to do and how high it is on the pile?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u219	Secretary of State Van Rij is working hard on this motion. It is reported in the Tax Plan and in other legislation sent to the Chamber. I do not have any further details available, but I will also pass on the need for more information to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u220	I am also looking at Mr Van der Lee.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u221	I have one more question about broad prosperity. Thanks, by the way. I appreciate everything the Minister says about that. If I have understood it correctly, the integration of that core set that the planning agencies are working on in the budgetary system is likely to take about five years. I was wondering if there's any acceleration in that. Could we, possibly at a later date, be informed of what is needed to achieve acceleration?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u222	I very much recognise that question, because I think I asked it myself. I don't know whether it's possible or not for a while, but let's just say it has to be faster. Otherwise, we'll be five years away and who knows where we'll all be on this globe. Mr Nijboer asked whether well-being was sufficiently taken into account in the corona policy. In the long-term view of the cabinet, the social perspective and social consequences of corona have an explicit place besides that of care. I think we have to recognise that the first phase was very focused on providing immediate care and combating the pandemic. But the Corona policy is now based on two equal and secondary goals: social and economic continuity, vitality and accessibility of the care chain for all. The Cabinet also explores the creation of a Social Impact Team. You will receive a follow-up letter from the VWS Minister and I believe that the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment will follow up on the long-term strategy. In my view, Mr Nijboer asked whether Mr Alkaya had paid sufficient attention to the psychological consequences of the corona crisis in particular. I don't want to enter the survey. I do not want to enter into what the US Secretary of State is exchanging with you. I think we're all sensitive to all the signals from society. You see now among young people, but also among many others, psychological consequences, such as insecurity, fear and the non-confidence of two years in a formative phase of their lives. This certainly applies to young people and students. We're not gonna get past that. We really need a lot more with that. What's that? Like I said, I don't want to sit in the chair of the U.S. Secretary of State. But everyone knows very well even if it is from personal experience with children, families or friends that very many people have felt insufficiently supported. In younger people, this sometimes leads to dramatic steps. I think it is very important that, in preparation for a future possible health crisis, such as a pandemic or a revival of the coronavirus, we look at this much more closely at the front. That's a big lesson. That's one of many lessons, I'd say. But honestly, I'm also saying it as the mother of four young adults. I always ring the bell about that, because it's just really important. Mr Grinwis asks for broad prosperity to be put at the centre of the National Growth Fund. I see Mr Grinwis for the pillar. The aim of the Growth Fund is to increase long-term sustainable earning capacity. That has two elements. Increasing structural GDP in a sustainable way. We ensure a broader balance in two ways: the balance of estimated societal benefits and costs must be positive and the contribution to societal transitions must be weighted. In the bill now in the First Chamber, the aim of the fund has been clarified and strengthened, among other things, in terms of sustainability. It is further strengthened in the criteria and in the analysis framework. Mr Van Raan asked about the lessons learned from the accumulation of rising emissions and pressure on natural capital. Mr Van Raan, of course, raises an important system question. That is, of course, also from the perspective of his party, but I think most of us share our deep concern about global warming and the sharp choices that need to be made to limit global warming and meet Paris' goals. That is also a question of what we can do about recovery. For the Netherlands, this is also the restoration of nature. For example, additional measures for nature restoration were taken in 2021. These will be further intensified in the coming years. The government is committed to a transition that should lead to a future-proof, more sustainable agriculture and a coherent approach to nitrogen, climate, nature and water challenges. I also understand what Mr Van Raan said about abolishing or revising the SDGs. I am aware of the criticism and the belief that there is. At the same time, we need to look closely at how many countries are using the SDGs for the first time in order to get a form of development and economic growth. Not every country is as prosperous as the Netherlands, so I think the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation will steer on a proper weighting. Mr Van Raan asked for the Monitor Brede Welvaart to be included in annual reports. We are looking at how we can do that and whether we can get factsheets from the CBS's Broad Prosperity Monitor to match departmental budgets, as I said. We'll see if we can get the link made in the annual reports. I'll follow up on this. Mr Grinwis asked about the sustainability requirements in the framework of the Monitor Brede Prosperity. Are these sufficient for biodiversity? And what are the consequences for socio-economically vulnerable groups? I've been asked about this. I understand the importance of the question, but I believe that there is a party member of Mr Grinwis, in Agriculture, but also a Minister for Nature and Nitrogen, who can answer that question very well. My words do not do justice to the depth of his question. Mr Stoffer asked if the cabinet would be prepared to add to the annual reports a report on the implementation of the motions and commitments of the past year. Each budget already contains an annex containing the state of play on the motions and commitments. That was also the question he asked the Prime Minister, I believe. This can also be done in annual reports. I would also like to examine whether a link can be made between the commitment register of your Chamber and the information systems of the departments, so that there can be no difference of understanding and, more importantly, so that you are spared work in the search for it. Then I'll go on to efficiency. I can't talk any faster than I already do, Madam President. No, it's more that I feel obliged to talk even faster.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u223	I'm not supposed to radiate anything that's causing this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u224	No, you're not! I'm in between dinner break and any other break, but I'll try to go as soon as possible. Mr Van der Lee asked for a broad action plan to monitor existing instruments for efficiency. I think your starting point is that we need a better understanding of the effectiveness and effectiveness of policies. That is, of course, the famous Article 3.1 of the Compatibility Act. In the first instance, each minister should examine periodically whether and how effective and effective policies are being achieved. The Periodic Evaluation Review Scheme, the RPE, then sets requirements for the frequency and quality of the research. The planning for these investigations can be found in each draft budget in the strategic evaluation agenda. The RPE also obliges departments to review key policy issues every four to seven years. That seems to me to be a good time in terms of measurement. I do not believe that Mr Van der Lee wants it to be implemented even faster. Yeah, okay. Mr Van der Lee also asks whether we are on the right track with regard to Article 3.1 and whether the criteria are being properly applied. Of course, a new approach to policy choices has been explained and introduced. That was already in November 2021. I'll see to it that the evidence is upheld. We also support departments to develop a better basis in the application of the method, through training and a hand delivery. The assessment of the quality of this support is, of course, the final judgement of Parliament, in talks with the trade ministers. But we're going to evaluate how the new method works. We do that on the basis of monitoring that... Mr Nijboer asked whether analyses could be carried out before the budget was released. I understand what Mr Nijboer is saying. It sounded a little like he said we're dealing with a lot of money right now that's still looking for a project. He mentioned 2022, but we're talking 2021. As far as the funds are concerned, we will, of course, be discussing this next week in the spring note. Of course, it is always important that we have a problem, an analysis and a direction of resolution, and then the question is how much it will cost and how to obtain that money. Of course, that is always at the heart of the debate we are having: is it effective and legitimate? The cabinet considers efficient spending to be important, and this also complies with the Compatibility Act. But there are several ways to test this, not only in the Committee on Public Finance but also in the various standing committees. But I agree with Mr Nijboer that, of course, an analysis or a problem definition must always be the basis of the choices you are going to make. It's always about data and weighing. Mr Van der Lee pointed out that the cabinet had set up two green funds and that these funds would be reduced by spring note. He asked whether this would undermine the credibility of the fund approach. You are asking a very important question, Mr Van der Lee, but I would like to come back to that. I'm looking at the chairman, because I think that's appropriate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u225	We agree that there should be a good analysis and a good cause when you spend money. My question was a continuation of last year, because at that time, 4.8 billion was not spent, although it was budgeted. I am sure that this year's figure will be at least the same. Then you can say "there were no good plans" or "it could not" but, for example, sustainability measures were not taken before, while the government did intend to take them. The nitrogen measures have not been taken, and they were also intended to do so. We'll send here, of course. We have fierce debates about where the money is going, and if it is not spent in the end, the goals will not be achieved. How does the Minister view that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u226	In general, I would say: you are right. Moreover, it is not only a Dutch problem, because everywhere there is sometimes a bit larger budgeting than will prove necessary afterwards. That could be a reason. Last year there was a net under-utilisation of a number of departmental budgets and this has to do with the Tax Administration/Applications Fund, the Groningen Fund and the Defence Equipment Fund. But I think Mr Nijboer knows that by heart. Furthermore, it has to do with OCW and spending related to nitrogen and climate. The underexhaustment has an occasional character to a large extent, but we do have an ibo. We're doing research to see where the margins are and if there's really any sort of "that's ultimately the key question "that's realistic' budgeted. Have we not also ended up in a culture where there is a broader budget on the front for fear that there is no time for adjustments if you have to change it later or that there will be other problems? It also happens that finance ministers are not generous enough. Let's just see how it went. I share Mr Nijboer's view that too much under-exhaustment is not good if it cannot be clearly assigned to a very causal relationship.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u227	Of course, it can come from over-burying. That may always play a bit of a role, but I think the most important thing is that there are political wishes. "We're going to build so much sustainable next year." "We'll bring up so much next year." "We're going to invest so much in Defense next year." We do that when there are no people or there are no equipment. Then it's announced that we're going to get that 2% standard, but we're going to see a year later that there's an underexhaustment of maybe more than 5 or 10 billion. And that's getting worse in the last few years. Well, that's my concern. It needs to be looked at carefully, but that's mostly my concern.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u228	Agreed. Of course, it would always be nice for finance ministers if they sometimes had a so-called windfall. Anyway, we're not planning on that! That's not how it's supposed to go. I share the concern and that is why this study is so important. I would also like to discuss it openly with you. If this is to lead to changes, including in the processes, then we must take them with us.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u229	Mr Van der Lee's last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u230	I still have a question about the funds. I will not ask what the Minister is going to say next week, but I would like to go back to the Growth Fund. That too was not a very nice procedure. It came all of a sudden. Things have already been set in motion. In the end, in constructive negotiations, we had to force a separate institutional law. This institutional law has been introduced and then it is decided very quickly to pull out an important part of the Growth Fund. My question is, in fact, the following. The defense was all the time: you set something apart; you don't touch it, because you have a purpose for it. This objective will be secured for a multiannual period with a certain amount. But in practical terms, I see that Cabinets, the previous and this, do not hesitate to do all kinds of intervention in the meantime. And that undermines trust in fund formation. I would like to hear the Minister's reflection on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u231	I must say that the word "reflection" is quite a heavy word for me. That requires that I have thought about it for a very long time and have adjusted and weighed everything. So you get a reaction, no reflection. I understand the observation. I share the inconvenience in that regard. If your argument is: "we do a fund, then the purpose is protected, then there is always money for it and we are going to work on it" then it is not consistent if we are finally going to extract particles from it. At the same time, I also know that in the Growth Fund, during the formation period, a number of parties said: well, we believe that this can be done differently. Sometimes there is also a political moment in negotiations when people say that we are going to do this differently. Perhaps in the future Mr Van der Lee himself will make those choices in a formation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u232	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u233	Mr Sneller asked how the new Secretary of Defense would like to halve the illegalities in her new department. In addition, Mr Sneller asked about the organisation of the defence base. How does the cabinet ensure that the extra resources are used to set up the basis? Well, we will, of course, also keep the Minister of Defence to her task, I say to Mr Sneller. The additional resources of course require the same legal requirements as for existing defence expenditure. There will be a legislative consultation with my colleague from the Defence Department, in which she will really go into the details. A significant part of the additional resources is specifically earmarked for the restoration of the base in the defence sector, as included in the coalition agreement. Defense is really taking measures to catch up on late maintenance, as described in the Defence Note. But it is quite a job and I think that the Minister of Defence and the Secretary of State for Defence are fully aware of that. Mr Van der Lee asks how Defence can spend the extra budget, given the problems with procurement and procurement. He also asks who is going to see to it that it is spent responsibly. What is the role of the Minister of Finance in this? The Secretary of Defense is, of course, Federführerend, which stands for that. Initial responsibility for the financial management of departments shall lie with the person in charge of the administration concerned. We've had a lot of exchanges. However, from my system responsibility for budgetary and accountability processes and for the government's budget management, I will, of course, also monitor compliance with the frameworks and address the Minister of Defence and all other ministers to their financial management. Mr Stoffer asks whether I have confidence in the new strategic real estate plan and whether the real estate problems of the Defence Department will be finally resolved. We have, of course, freed up resources, partly to tackle the major problems in the defence sector. Mr Stoffer also expressed support for this massive increase in defence resources. An official reconnaissance by the Defense Department is almost complete. It looked at how the funds were used and the Minister of Defence will inform the Chamber about the results after the summer. It's a big task and we can't pretend that this one-two-three has just been done. Defence also needs the cooperation of municipalities, provinces and other ministries. You know the contours of the real estate plan through the note or a letter dated 13 May last, and the Secretary of State has a debate with you, I believe on 30 June.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u234	Thank you for this part of the answer. I am always looking forward to the future, so I have a lot of hope that we will get right on that part with the Secretary of Defense. In particular, my concern is that the General Court has considered the procurement management of Defence to be insufficient since 2016. I have said something about this in general terms, and colleagues have also said a few things about it. The Ministry does need to strengthen financial management. My specific question is as follows. As far as I am concerned, the Minister does not have to say that I am making sure that next year is really 100% in order. I would like to, but would she at least undertake to pay particular attention, including from the Treasury, to this ministry, which has been doing something in this area for so many years now? In fact, I think that is very essential, especially given the extra money that comes with it. That is not disqualification from the Secretary of Defense, but we have been seeing that concern for five or six years now. I think we agree that something really, really needs to be done about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u235	I believe that the Minister and the Secretary of State for Defence are well aware of the importance of the recommendation of the Court of Auditors and the ADR and of its follow-up. They have a plan of action that they are updating. This concerns in particular the resolution of weaknesses in procurement management. They are also in talks with the General Court and the ADR to examine very carefully what else is needed. Of course, finance is working together and watching. We're not gonna sit on the D.O.D.'s chair. We are well aware that if there are four or five ministries, including mine, which must be given special attention, this must be given priority. Mr Azarkan asked: what does the Minister think of the fact that EUR 7.9 billion could not initially be established at EZK? The General Court considered that it could not rely sufficiently on the audit of the Audit Service in the implementation of the TVL scheme and that it had not been sufficiently taken into account by the Audit Service. The General Court of Auditors and the Audit Service are discussing this and, as you know, the Ministry of EZK has been working hard to solve potential problems and shortcomings. Mr Stoffer asked about reducing the gap between paper and reality. He asked for a response to the Court's comment on realistic climate objectives, understandable, fiscal choices for entrepreneurs and financially sound policies. I believe that this question is summarised in a not entirely coherent sense, but I believe that Mr Stoffer recognizes his own question. They're very reflective questions. Of course, we want to commit ourselves daily to anyone in politics, whether it be coalition or opposition, for concrete improvements and changes in people's lives. It is right that Dutch people want a government that is reliable, that stands next to them and delivers it. We have, of course, made extensive mention in the introduction to the coalition agreement that we must also improve the work of the government itself. That is not only delivering what you promise, but also communicating, being available, being accessible and being accessible. But not everything's going well. We have to admit that to be honest. What is important is that we work on the improvement and that it becomes insightful and perceptible in people's lives. You have all mentioned many speaking examples. So it's an important grinding stone for the mind, I'd say. We know that we need to do much better, and we also hope that we can count on your support on the road to change. Then I had another category of 'other', Madam President. I'll see what's left. There are a number of questions about inflation and purchasing power. First of all, I'm gonna find out what's going on about the responsibility for 2021. The Van Haga Group, Mr Ephraim, asked for a commitment from the cabinet that feasibility is paramount and not the political will. I think that is a very important subject. We're all aware of that. It's nice to want something, but if it's not feasible or difficult to implement, we have to take it in front. This can sometimes lead to a new weighting. The Work on Implementation programme should monitor this. Of course, it is up to all of us to consider in the assessment of laws whether simplicity, human size, improvement and feasibility are weighed and considered in width. There was a question from Mr Van Raan about the risky behaviour of the cabinet in relation to crises that are in the lurch, such as the climate crisis, a new zoonoses or the surcharge crisis. How does all this contribute to preventing unlawful acts? In other words, the cabinet is risky when I read the summary of the sentence in this way and how can we ever come to an approach to a possible new zoonosis, solving the supplement crisis and tackling the climate crisis? That is Mr Van Raan's question, when I hear it that way. We think it might sound boring to say that it is important in times of crisis to keep course and also to know that we are dealing with choices. We can only spend money once and, of course, we always have to move towards manageable public finances. That's how we always have to weigh it integrally. In my opinion, Mr Van Raan's question was not so much financial or fiscal, but rather about the behaviour of the cabinet. So maybe he should just point that out one more time.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u236	What a coincidence. Here I am, to point out. The point I made in my contribution is that the system, the economic system, to put it bluntly, is actually coming to an end and that at the end of system ages you always see things getting stuck and you get crises. If you don't change that system, you're gonna keep having those crises. And because we have these crises, the need is not temptation, but the need is much greater not to spend according to the rule. That's the point. So if you don't make that underlying system transition, you keep running from crisis to crisis. That's what we've actually seen gross modo for the past ten years. Does the Minister recognise that it is the end of the current economic system? Does she recognise that you will continue to go from crisis to crisis and that as a result you will also have to continue to spend in a way that is not really so beneficial?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u237	That's a very big question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u238	It might be a bit of a reflection.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u239	Yeah, or an observation. It may be an expression of an ideological belief, a different view of humanity, planet and economy. I respect that. But I do not think that wheel is going to turn completely differently in terms of the coalition agreement and accountability for 2021. I do think it is important to have budgets in order, regardless of the economic, social or social system that we choose. We always have to weigh politically well. But Mr Van Raan actually says: we will always need exceptions now, because we are in a kaduuk system that is coming to an end. It's almost apocalyptic. Mr Van Raan says: you will find more and more imperfections. That is how I understand what Mr Van Raan is actually saying. That question is impossible to answer. We have a coalition agreement. As Minister of Finance, I want to implement orderly budgetary policies and ensure that my colleagues can achieve the great ambitions of substance. There are choices in that. I refer to the approach to climate change, to the nitrogen crisis, to inequality. We can differ greatly, but I do not think that I can and want to create a completely different system through the budget at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u240	I agree with the Minister of Finance that it is difficult to do so. It's even impossible. The minister just took the word "apocalyptic." I wouldn't do that so soon. It's what science tells us. It tells us that we have a number of problems that we may not be able to solve within this current system. I would once again ask whether the Minister of Finance recognizes that these successive crises, which are referred to, are in fact reasonably linked under water. And does she recognize you're gonna keep having these crises as long as you don't address those underlying causes? If you don't, those crises might increase. That's what we've seen over the years. Does it recognise that it is becoming increasingly difficult for the Minister of Finance to pursue that orderly budgetary policy that it advocates? I share with her that that is necessary, but it is getting harder and harder. Does she recognize that or doesn't she recognize it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u241	Well, I don't know if there's the problem. It's the course we're setting. Look at the sustainability of the economy. Look at greening. Look at the choices in scarcity, in this case planetary scarcity. Look at the restoration of the planet or biodiversity. Those things cost money, too. But they also ask for other choices, by standards or pricing. I think that is a different debate from the one we are having here. In my view, this is a different discussion than the almost clear debate on the accountability of last year, despite all the shortcomings. And I have to say that I think about other behaviors when it comes to risky behavior. But I take Mr Van Raan's suggestion with me. Mr Sneller asked, in response to questions about abuse of corona resources, whether the cabinet could continue to inform the Chamber about the detection of fraudsters. And what lessons do we draw from this for the next incentive programmes? I share Mr Sneller's view that we need to take firm action when there is evidence of abuse, in this case of corona fees. You have been informed about the cabinet's approach to minimise the risk of fraud, abuse and misuse. That's what we have to do. At the same time, it is always important that people have received the right information. That's why I say "showable." Mr Van Dijck is asking about corporate debt to the government. How many companies could go bankrupt? The Prime Minister has, of course, already indicated that, thanks to support packages, many companies have been able to survive the corona restrictions. The number of bankruptcies has so far been exceptionally low. There are still important issues, such as the excessive amount of NOW aid, which has already been widely exchanged, but also tax debts that have to be repaid. That can be a risk to many companies. We see in the figures that the ratio of profit to debt in many companies is not favourable. A great deal of attention has also been rightly asked by the Court, at various times, to identify bottlenecks in accumulated tax debt and to explore policy options for that purpose. The Cabinet informs your Chamber before the summer. I believe that the Secretary of State has already had a detailed exchange of views with you on this matter. At the same time, bankruptcies are part of the real economy and a healthy economic dynamic and also contribute to adaptability. I do not want to pretend that I welcome the fact that people are going bankrupt, far from it, but zero bankruptcy is also not where Mr Van Dijck is heading, I think, because that is not sustainable and it is not part of economic relations. In the event of unavoidable payment problems, it is also important that the company itself provides rapid clarity and seeks the help that is needed. The Secretary of State, together with the Ministers for Social Affairs and Economic Affairs, is examining all the options that do not relate to the cancellation of tax debts, because many companies have also started paying off tax debts. Mr Heinen asked me to send a letter with the cabinet position on a possible new buy-back programme of the ECB. We are aware of reports in the media that the ECB would be in consultation on the rigging of a crisis instrument. I don't want to speculate on that. Frankly, I find it a little uncomfortable to send a cabinet letter about an independent body. I'm not shy of sending letters, as you know, because I think it's a part of transparency and capturing what you think, but I find this one very difficult, I honestly say.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u242	And rightly so, because the Central Bank is independent and then I force the Minister of Finance to take a position on that particular point. My request was actually broader than that. We have a debate today on budgetary policy in the Netherlands, but we are also partly bound by budgetary policy in Europe. The Stability and Growth Pact is now looking for a great deal of expansion. But also the ECB intervenes, so that countries do not intervene. Then we come to the situation where budgetary policy is under strain. On that whole palette I asked for a vision from the cabinet to take a position, also because the Chamber is going to debate the future of the euro area. The debate is now being narrowed to the ECB's position, but I think we should also reflect on where that ECB policy comes from. It also steps into a place where there are political gaps. I think it would be a good idea for the cabinet to take a position on this, with a broader view on the future and on the sustainability of the euro area, because the Chamber is going to debate this and then we can take a position on it between us and then I know where the cabinet is. The request is really broader than just the ECB, because that would indeed be inappropriate, and I agree with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u243	I will come back to it in the second term, but I believe that in the ECOFIN debate, in the run-up to the debate on the euro scheduled for September, I made a commitment on a cabinet juice valuation. I will come back to that in the second term, because we need to form a broad cabinet greed anyway, but we still need some time to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u244	I never get this. I'm gonna use my last interruption. I have also quoted it in my own text. Why should criticism of the European Central Bank be impossible because it is institutionally independent? Surely there are many institutions that are institutionally independent and on which the cabinet can have an opinion or opinion, without affecting that institutional independence? There are supervisors and all kinds of other institutions. I remember having a conversation about the Personal Data Authority and that the Cabinet said: we respect it but we do not agree with what they say. That doesn't affect independence, does it? Why is the cabinet so reluctant to express an opinion on the European Central Bank's policy? I mean, you can do that without compromising that independence, can't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u245	Yes, but the nuance was in the statement Mr. Heinen gave. I am not afraid to give an opinion at some point, but it was about the possible misunderstanding that I thought he was asking for a letter on a decision, a specific possible new ECB instrument. Well, the Dutch Bank is in the governing council. The Dutch Bank has an opinion on this and shares it publicly. That's how we settled the trial. What I would like to do, however, is to indicate, in a broader paper on the euro area, what the potential risks are, what the different bodies, including the ECB, can and what we expect from them. For example, Mr Heinen asked earlier whether we believe that the ECB's traditional role has been exceeded. I would also like to comment on stability: does the ECB not do too much; is there not too much intervention from the ECB? These are all things that we naturally have to debate with each other without, of course, knowing in this case that we are going to change a jota. If the ECB says tomorrow 'we are going to do A, B, C', it will do so in the independence of the role of the ECB, but the debate on this is important. I think those two can find each other. We haven't even had the debate yet, but I'm not going to send a letter tonight stating what I think of a possible decision by the ECB reported in the media. I'll take a look at the questions. Mr. Alkaya of the SP said that it seems that the cabinet is facing signals from society with distrust, as opposed to signals from business. Why don't households get five years of tax deferral if companies do? Yes, this is the same as the arrangement has been agreed with you, I believe. In the generic aid package, for example, employees were paid wages by the NOW scheme. That was part of the generic aid package. In some cases, restrictive measures have prevented companies from making sales. I understand the social sentiment that Mr Alkaya raises, but these are very specific arrangements. For the average citizen in need, there are other measures, through a different form of support that is already provided regularly, corona or no corona. Mr Van Dijck of the PVV asked for a reflection on the profits of large companies and on the risk of bankruptcy in small companies in corona time. I think that I and the Prime Minister have already explained what was intended with the generic support package: to provide certainty for entrepreneurs, to help them quickly and to mitigate the negative effects of corona as much as possible. But generic support also has its drawbacks. This also means that it does not end up very specific and completely in the right place. For example, it was also found in non-viable companies with low labour productivity and in companies in sectors not affected by corona. That is, of course, an element on which you say: can this be changed in the future and is that possible within our system at all? We're getting researched from preparedness, I'd almost say more targeted support, preferably sectoral, is an option if we're dealing with a corona crisis or another type of crisis. You will be informed about this after the summer. Mr Nijboer rightly asked about concerns about ICT. Well, in this case, we share it entirely, I'm afraid. It would be better if it weren't. The Tax Office already has the so-called multi-annual improvement initiatives. I believe that you had a technical briefing on this in January. A prerequisite for improving the ICT situation is the recruitment and retention of experienced personnel. Of course, we can all count and see that because of the current tight labour market this is extremely difficult. So that's a huge obstacle, but that's new, or relatively new. That does not explain, of course, how all the ICT problems in the Tax Administration have been able to accumulate. I know that the expectation has been expressed that the ICT system will have to be set up in 2025 in such a way that legislation is much more possible than in previous political stages. Anyway, that's three more years, and that's not exactly satisfactory. I also get the warning that the impact of new legislation and recovery policies, for example on box 3, must be constantly assessed and what this means for the maintenance and necessary modernisation of systems. Yeah, it's what I said: anything but satisfying. But there's a lot of work going on. Mr Grinwis asked: at the General Reviews a motion had been adopted to investigate and counter non-use; how is the investigation going, and how do we meet the motion? The evaluation of the Awir, the implementation and service of supplements, which will be completed in the summer, will include non-use. And, of course, figures on the extent of the non-use of the care allowance and the child-related budget are updated in accordance with the Grinwis motion. And literature research is also done on behavioural aspects and causes of non-use. Mr Nijboer asked: is the cabinet prepared to question the main issue of fiscal expenditure? "Fiscal arrangements" rather. Of course, we always have to take a critical look at tax regulations. This is also reflected in the policy and implementation agenda shared with your Chamber last week. It states that tax regimes can only be justified if they are effective and effective. Because, of course, a number of tax regimes have recently been assessed negatively. Before the summer 2023 you will be informed in a plan of approach. Mr Grinwis asked whether an update could be given on the implementation of the Grinwis motion. It does not say at which motion Mrs Grinwis, I must say, but I think it is about the complexity of tax regulations. During 2022, we strengthened supervision within the Ministry of Finance in the policy and implementation agenda. You've already had it. Well, I already named that. There's gonna be a plan of action. Mr Van Dijck has asked if the cabinet has a crisis approach in Groningen so that we can intervene more. Wait a minute: "Mr Van Dijck has asked whether the cabinet or a crisis approach in Groningen is needed so that the cabinet can take more action." I do not think that the phrase has been taken up entirely here in the haste. But the essence is: the Secretary of State for Mining discussed with your Chamber last week about Groningen, and about the progress of the damage recovery and the reinforcement operation. And you also exchanged with the Prime Minister. Mr Eppink asked whether the cabinet could make the real cost of migratory flows clear on the budget. The annual report of the Ministry of Justice and Security, Article 37, shows the expenditure incurred for admission, stay and departure from the Netherlands of foreign nationals, as well as obtaining Dutch citizenship. That's it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u246	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. I would like to thank the Minister for Finance for her reply. But before she leaves, there is another question from Mr Omtzigt, excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u247	Mr. Chairman. There's been a few questions left. The first question I had was the question of discharge. A task force will be set up. But the Minister himself wrote to the Chamber on 15 March that the European Union's budget was 2.7% different. That was above the 2% margin Europe uses, and so it voted against discharge. Now we in the Netherlands have to deal with the obligations of 5% exceedance, while the standard is 1%. Does the government believe that it should have discharge for the policy pursued?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u248	The Minister. And it was also a question from Mr Dassen, I remember.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u249	Yes. I would like to come back to that in second place. There is a complex set of reasons why we voted against the European Court of Auditors. It's not one-on-one. So I would like to take this with me, with an explanation of the vote against by the European Court of Auditors.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u250	Yes. Mr. Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u251	It happens to me more often that a lot is being pushed forward to the second term. I think it was a very clear question, and I would have liked to have answered it in the first term. The second question I asked. I have said that there are three owners of coal power plants who are about to get around 1.5 billion in order not to run their coal power plants this year; and 800,000 families who together get around 650 million, whereas according to the CPB there are 1.1 million households or households that do not live up to high energy prices. Is that another reason for the government to do something about that compensation?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u252	Mr Omtzigt is now, of course, asking for purchasing power and reduction of purchasing power in 2022. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u253	That is correct, but I did mention it as an example of an arrangement announced in 2021. It was not legal at the time because it was only filed in 2022 and the law still needs to be dealt with. This is exactly an example of such a law that I would have liked to have here immediately. Then we can just treat him as a rule. I have also said on a few points that it is very difficult, because we do not know what year you should be below the 120% standard of assistance. So it bothers me. Yes, I can do that with the Spring Note. I can do that here. But this is the problem that arises when laws are implemented before they are dealt with. That's why I asked the question here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u254	I understand Mr Omtzigt's concerns. We have, of course, also talked in the last few hours about the legality or illegality of the law. But Mr Omtzigt's question is about reducing purchasing power now and whether, on top of the €800, more money could be added for a number of families in the context of persistent inflation. This applies not only to energy, but of course also to food and other important purchases in the shopping basket of the average family. You may have heard the Prime Minister and myself this morning or this afternoon. We have said that there is still very little possible. We share the concerns. The CPB indeed shows a basic scenario and a dark, a black scenario as far as I'm concerned. Of course, that's very worrying. Of course, we always have the discussion about purchasing power in the run-up to the Millions Note. But that's not until 2023. We also understand that the water is now on the lips of many people. The idea that something might happen next year is not enough. At the same time, the cabinet has put out a large package. It is also relatively high in relation to other European countries. At the same time, we have also brought forward the increase in the legal minimum wage by January 2023. This also applies to the related, other schemes. But we must now also act on the basis of possible options. There's not much to go on. Next week we would also like to hear the following from you in debate with your Chamber. Do you have any wishes, especially in view of people who can barely make ends meet? How are you going to do that? We are still considering whether it is possible, of course from the point of view of coverage.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u255	Finally, Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u256	I understand that, but rather the impression has really been given that it would be dealt with in the spring note. Now, of course, the situation is much more complex than we had all hoped. So I understand that you're trying to change something that's constantly changing; that's not easy. But there really is an assignment. I have just given an example of the fact that the three owners of coal power stations are completely overcompensated. If we can believe the NRC, it happened with nearly 1.5 billion to stop the coal plants. But we won't get that letter until next week. 800,000 households have to do with less than half of that. On the one hand a great over-compensation, on the other hand a CPB that says 1.1 million households are sinking through the ice. Does the government not see the possibility of ensuring that there is no overcompensation for the decommissioning of coal plants? No one makes as much profit as the owners of stationary coal plants in this country. Doesn't the government see any possibility of doing something for those people?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u257	The legal handling of the closure of coal power stations, I believe... I do not have the details of that. For that, I should ask the Minister for Climate and Energy. I do not know in what framework the totality of that sum has been agreed, but I think I remember that it comes from a legal package as well. That's one thing. I understand that, in the picture, it is certainly very uncomfortable that there is generous compensation due to a government decision to combat climate change and that many households are now barely able to make ends meet. It's a separate decision, though. Of course, the cabinet will always see if there are any options left. That is what the Prime Minister has previously appointed, but we also need to look at what is sensible fiscal policy, how we can maintain public finances and how we can put debt sustainability in order. But of course we always look at the most vulnerable families, that may be clear. But there is a moment in August and we have the debate on the Spring Note next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u258	Thank you. That really brings us to the end of the first term. I'm suspending the meeting for 45 minutes before dinner. This means that we will continue at 8:45 p.m., with the second term on the side of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u259	The next item is the continuation of the debate on responsibility for the year 2021, second term on the side of the Chamber. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mr Heinen of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u260	I asked where my predecessor was on the list of speakers. I heard his daughter passed, too. It's a beautiful day for a lot of parents in the Netherlands. One motion, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the principle of the Compatibility Act is that budget law lies with the States General;]] [[Whereas Article 2.27 of the Compatibility Act allows the Government to derogate from this rule in the interests of the Empire, when the States-General have been informed;]] [[Considering that the General Court states that the States General were not informed in all cases in 2020 and 2021, that Article 2.27 of the Compatibility Act was frequently invoked in 2021 and that the need to do so is questionable in a number of cases;]] [[Calls on the Government to send a bill to the Chamber as soon as possible to further strengthen the budget law of the States-General by including in the exception of Article 2.27 of the Compatibility Act as a condition that the States-General consider himself sufficiently informed;]] [[calls on the government to act in the spirit of this tightening up, pending this,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Heinen, Mr Alkaya, Mr Sneller, Mr Inge van Dijk, Mr Grinwis, Mr Stoffer, Mr Nijboer, Mr Van der Lee, Mr Azarkan, Mr Van Raan, Mr Omtzigt and Mr Dassen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-36100-5]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u261	Thank you, Mr. Heinen. Then we go to Mr. Alkaya of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u262	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you to the Prime Minister and the Minister for Finance for answering our questions. I shall do my best to table two motions. First, a short one. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that 63 incidental supplementary budgets were submitted last year;]] [[Considers that this makes the work of Parliament as a government auditor difficult;]] [[calls on the Government to reduce the number of incidental supplementary budgets,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Alkaya.]] [[She's getting No. kst-36100-6]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u263	A second, a little longer motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that in recent years there have been a number of under-substantiated measures on the table for a long time or even have been introduced to be reversed, despite many concerns, arguments and resistance from society;]] [[considers that this contributes to public distrust and leads to uncertainty in society;]] [[calls on the government to first investigate:]] [[the expected impact on regional disparities;]] [[the purchasing power of people with the lowest incomes and those with no alternative to the car;]] [[the effect on the number of flights;]] [[alternative measures to achieve the same objectives;]] [[and to inform the Chamber thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Alkaya.]] [[She's getting No. kst-36100-7]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u264	Thank you, Mr. Alkaya. Then we go to Mr. Sneller of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u265	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the directors for the answer. As far as I am concerned, we have heard a very different tone from last year's Question Time. I'm actually very happy about that. I am pleased with the commitments, that we are becoming much more reluctant with Article 2.27. There are further motions to support this..................................................................................................................................................... Mr. Chairman. I had announced one motion in the first term. Because the tolerance limit has been exceeded, I think it would be wise for us, as a Chamber, to highlight that limit more clearly. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that Article 3.10 of the Act provides that the Minister of Finance shall itself lay down the rules for reporting standards of errors and uncertainties in accountability;]] [[whereas it is reasonable for the States General to set the reporting tolerance limit of the national account;]] [[calls on the government to set a reporting tolerance limit of 1% for the state account in the state budget rules,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Sneller, Mr Inge van Dijk and Mr Heinen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-36100-8]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u266	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank both directors for their comprehensive response. One more teaser was given by the Minister of Finance for next week. In her last answers she talked about "dealing with things" and "possible options." Especially in view of today's CPB report, I think it is necessary for people who are at risk of poverty, including those with a middle income. The Minister of Finance also indicated that coverage should also be provided. The PvdA Group would consider an overprofit tax to be very sensible. In England they import them into and in Germany, Belgium and France they look at them. So we will certainly make proposals for this next week. I believe that it would not only be politically wise for the cabinet to go into that and listen to it, but also, and above all, that it would also be good for people who cannot make ends meet at the end of the month. Mr. Chairman. I have one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the Cabinet intends to spend many billions in additional expenditure in various areas through various methods, including budgetary funds;]] [[Whereas the budgets are fixed, but the approach, analysis and targets are often lacking, which may put pressure on the effectiveness and effectiveness of expenditure;]] [[calls on the Cabinet to use resources only if it has been assessed that the approach chosen is effective and effective, and that the Chamber should be involved in the process in good time,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Nijboer, Mr Van der Lee, Mr Van Raan and Mr Dassen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-36100-9]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u267	Mr. Chairman. I'll stay for a while, but I'll catch the train to Groningen later. Save me an hour. Otherwise, I'll be home at 2:00 a.m. Now at 1:00 a.m. And tomorrow I'll be back in Loppersum and Uithuizen. I see other colleagues going home for festive reasons. Going home is always festive! But I'm sorry about this. It's not out of disinterest. It's to keep us a little whole in the business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u268	Thank you. It's all very well for that. Then we will listen to Mrs. Inge van Dijk from the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u269	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you for answering the questions. I welcome the Prime Minister's commitment that he is prepared to make work visits to local organisations, such as Care Coöperatie de Bieb, who are helping people who are less digitally skilled. I'm sure the list of three is gonna be a lot longer. So keep us posted, I'd say.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u270	By the way, I understood that the Prime Minister could be on that Thursday. So we can do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u271	I also welcome the commitment of the Minister of Finance to focus on structural improvements. Several commitments have been made, in particular to strengthen the role of system responsible. I'm also curious about the task force they're setting up. Of course, a task force is not a guarantee that it will be better. We don't want any bandages. We want imperfections to be solved. But I have a feeling that this minister is exactly the same. Finally, broad prosperity. The importance of high social participation is also endorsed by the Minister. The monitor also indicates that greater social participation contributes to trust in each other, between different groups, and that people feel accepted. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Monitor Brede Prosperity 2022 shows a decreasing trend in indicators of contact with neighbours, family and friends and the extent of volunteering;]] [[Considering that the Broad Prosperity Monitor 2022 points out that increased social participation can lead to greater confidence of people in each other and in government;]] [[whereas despite the high position of the Netherlands within the EU, it is worrying that social participation is under pressure;]] [[calls on the Government to investigate, or to investigate, how strengthening social participation can increase people's trust in each other, increase trust between different groups in society, feel more accepted and trust in important institutions, and to develop concrete proposals to increase social participation, in particular with regard to contact with neighbours, family and friends and the extent of volunteering,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Inge van Dijk, Mr Stoffer, Mr Dassen and Mr Van der Plas.]] [[She's getting No. kst-36100-10]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u272	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I actually thought it was a good debate. For me, the debate on responsibility was the first time. It was constructive, substantive and there were many topics. I also think it is important that a number of commitments have been made, but that there has also been recognition. I shall begin with the Prime Minister's recognition that there has been a distortion in the distribution of assets in the Netherlands. This will provide a perspective from next week on the Spring Paper, but also for many other debates in order to reverse this distortion. It is also a good thing that the finance minister on high inflation, but in particular on the problem for nearly 1.2 million Dutch people to make ends meet at the moment, indicates that the door is not locked. He's on a crack. Together with the PvdA we have ideas about what should happen through that crack and what should be arranged. Others have ideas, too, so I hope we can work it out next week. I am also encouraged to note that the criticism of the Court of Auditors, which is certainly also based on the criticism of the Court of Auditors, is being taken seriously and that there will be a task force. It is recognised that there are structural problems and that the basis needs to be put in place. Several commitments have been made. We will follow that very closely. I also welcome the commitment to consider whether we should consider whether we should go to four moments in the year to look fully together on the budgetary frameworks. In order to be able to follow the way in which this commitment has been worked out, both for the Cabinet and for the Chamber, I think it is important that this be recorded in a motion. That motion is as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that both last year and this year the budgetary decision-making process entered the Chamber very fragmentedly;]] [[noting that this makes it unnecessarily complicated for the Court to exercise its budget rights adequately;]] [[Whereas the Cabinet has committed itself to a new administrative culture, with transparency as a priority;]] [[invites the Government to examine whether it can work towards four moments in the year in which it informs the Chamber and allows it to decide on budgetary proposals, specifying in more detail in advance the possible full and long-term impact on all the parts concerned and on the budgetary frameworks as a whole,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Van der Lee, Mr Nijboer, Mr Van Raan, Mr Azarkan, Mr Stoffer, Mr Alkaya and Mr Dassen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-36100-11]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u273	I'm rounding up. I wish the cabinet a great deal of strength in carrying out all these commitments and plans, because time is moving fast. Next thing we know, it's meatloaf. The three-year trend is really in the wrong direction. A great deal of effort is needed to reverse a trend. I hope we can see a better whole next year. I wish you every success with that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u274	Thank you, Mr President. Thanks for the answer. Thank you also for the Prime Minister's commitment to address the emerging problems surrounding the SDGs in a letter. Mr. Chairman. I've got a couple of motions I'm gonna read to you. I hear some laughter in the background. I suppose this is laughing because it's taken in the letter. Very good. The keeper wins. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas policies should always increase prosperity in the broadest sense of the word;]] [[Whereas many proposals are unclear as to how they contribute to broad prosperity;]] [[Considering that a scale leap in the application of the broad concept of prosperity in the budgetary cycle is actively advocated by the Court of Auditors, the Council of State and now by the Cabinet itself;]] [[calls on the Government to include in the review of Article 3.1 of the Compatibility Act in autumn 2022 whether a provision can be added that all proposals are accompanied by an explanation of their contribution to broad prosperity,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Raan and Mr Sneller.]] [[She's getting No. kst-36100-12]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u275	Then there is a motion from the V-100 meeting attended by young scientists this year. It emerged that the annual reports should be much clearer as to the extent to which the targets have been met. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the V-100 meeting, attended by young scientists this year, showed that the annual reports should be much clearer as to the extent to which targets have been achieved;]] [[Whereas this can contribute to the understanding of the broad prosperity gains or losses in a year;]] [[Whereas, when citizens are able to see much better to what extent promises have been made, that confidence in politics can benefit;]] [[calls on the government to make clear in the annual reports the extent to which objectives have been achieved in a clear and clear way;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Raan, Mr Nijboer, Mr Dassen, Mr Van der Lee, Mr Alkaya and Mr Ephraim.]] [[She's getting No. kst-36100-13]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u276	Yes, Mr. Chairman, I must hurry. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the national budget is now geared towards expenditure on financial instruments within budget chapters and policy articles, rather than to expenditure on concrete objectives;]] [[Considering that this makes it difficult or even impossible to determine how much money is spent on specific concrete objectives, especially when the achievement of concrete targets is divided between several ministries;]] [[Whereas it is difficult for the Court to assess whether, in its opinion, sufficient and sensible, economical and careful spending is being made for the achievement of certain objectives;]] [[whereas it is thus not clear whether there is widespread welfare gains or losses with tax money;]] [[calls on the Government to examine how the state budget can provide a clear and uniform understanding of expenditure on concrete objectives and inform the Court of Justice thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Raan, Mr Nijboer, Mr Dassen, Mr Van der Lee, Mr Alkaya and Mr Ephraim.]] [[She's getting No. kst-36100-14]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u277	Mr President, two more motions to make. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Compatibility Act lays down that discharge relates only to financial management and not to the efficiency and effectiveness of the policies pursued;]] [[Whereas discharge may give rise to the appearance that the Court approves the effectiveness and effectiveness of the policies pursued;]] [[Whereas it is desirable for the government to be more responsible for the effectiveness and effectiveness of the policies pursued;]] [[calls on the Government to examine how to better understand the effectiveness and effectiveness of the policies pursued and how to extend the discharge to the efficiency and effectiveness of policies, and to inform the Court of Justice on Account Day 2023,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Raan, Mr Nijboer, Mr Dassen and Mr Ephraim.]] [[She's getting No. kst-36100-15]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u278	Then the final motion. This concerns the debate with the Minister of Finance on whether or not system change is necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u279	Please read the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u280	I'm going to read the motion now, Mr. Chairman. Thanks for the encouragement. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that many social problems such as the climate crisis and the risk of pandemic zoonoses share a common cause, namely economic activities that do not respect the planet's borders;]] [[noting that the solution to these problems is sought in more and more economic growth;]] [[noting that broad prosperity is also very dependent on economic growth at the moment;]] [[calls on the Government to develop a vision to make the progress of broad prosperity independent of economic growth,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Raan and Mr Dassen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-36100-16]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u281	Thank you for your coulance, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u282	Thank you, Mr. Van Raan. Then we'll go to Mr. Dassen's, Volt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u283	Thank you, Mr President, and thank you to the directors for their reply today. In addition, special thanks to the Secretary of State for the commitment to identify, in consultation with the VNG, how citizens' budgets can be explicitly involved. So we already have great examples of this in Rotterdam, Amsterdam and other cities. It is clear that we need this knowledge and I would like to ask whether this can be included in the main letter. In addition to that, the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the cabinet is coming up with an extension of the main letter on participation policy;]] [[Whereas large-scale experimentation and deployment of citizens' budgets could make a significant contribution to increasing trust between citizens and government and further boost democratic renewal;]] [[whereas the use of citizens' budgets is therefore a good addition to participatory policies, but is not included at this stage;]] [[calls on the Government to examine how civil budgets can strengthen participation and involve it in further developing participatory policies,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Dassen, Mr Inge van Dijk, Mr Sneller, Mr Van der Plas, Mr Van der Lee, Mr Van Raan and Mr Nijboer.]] [[She's getting No. kst-36100-17]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u284	Inge van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u285	Then we go to Mr Ephraim of the Van Haga Group and there is only one of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u286	Thank you, Mr President, and thank you to the Prime Minister and the Minister for their efforts. I told you before, I'm a suspicious and cynical man. That cynicism is reflected in the first motion, because we have to take account of setbacks. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Netherlands has traditionally had a reputation for solidity, economy and economy;]] [[Whereas, for the third year in a row, the tolerance limit has been exceeded;]] [[calls on the government to make an overview of possible savings that can be achieved within the twelve ministries and to send this overview to the Chamber for Princess Day,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ephraim.]] [[She's getting No. kst-36100-18]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u287	The second one's a bit suspicious after all. I admit it, honestly. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, for the third year in a row, the tolerance limit has been exceeded;]] [[Whereas the focus is on three ministries;]] [[Whereas it is too late on Accountable Day to be able to adjust as a Chamber;]] [[Calls on the Government to report to the Chamber on a quarterly basis on the quality of the reporting of revenue, expenditure and obligations of the Ministries of Economic Affairs and Climate, VWS and Defence;]] [[invites the Government also to ask the General Court to provide these reports with an opinion,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ephraim.]] [[She's getting No. kst-36100-19]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u288	Hello, Mr. Chairman. Thank you and thank you to the government for answering the questions. Oh, I see all kinds of beautiful modern phones there!
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u289	It's beautiful, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u290	Yeah, they're doing great.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u291	Yeah, well...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u292	The Prime Minister hates them, Mr. President. I'm a little addicted to it myself, and that's why I have a few of those things. Mr. Chairman. I hope to receive answers in the second term. The most important answer, of course, comes to the question of why the government thinks they should have discharge. Especially in view of the fact that the EU had only half of the derogations, which is why the government itself did not grant a discharge. I'm filing two motions, Mr. Chairman. These are two issues which I expect to be answered in the second term. So I'm open to good answers and hold on. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there are queues of years for obtaining the own file, the Board of Appeal, the full assessment and the Committee on Actual Damage;]] [[noting that the assistance to parents of out-of-home children has slowly begun after October 2021;]] [[calls on the government to take additional measures to ensure that the lives of these families are not put back on hold for years, with a high level of stress as a result;]] [[calls on the Government to review and implement, in full and within time, at the request of parents and/or children, the adopted motion requesting removals within six months, including those within the urgency framework, on request of parents and/or children;]] [[calls on the Government to continue to report to the Court on this matter by 10 September,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that as a result of the energy crisis and the government's actions:]] [[three coal-fired power plant owners for the year 2022 will receive around 1.5 billion in compensation;]] [[1.1 million households in the black scenario fall due to the increased energy prices according to the CPB and only about 0.8 million households receive compensation of less than 0.8 billion in total;]] [[calls on the government to make at least the same amount of money available to households facing major problems as a result of the energy crisis, by means of additional surcharges, if the three owners of coal power plants are paid compensation for losses;]] [[invites the Government to report on this within three weeks,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Omtzigt.]] [[She's getting No. kst-36100-20]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Omtzigt and Mr Alkaya.]] [[She's getting No. kst-36100-21]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u293	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u294	Thank you, Mr. Ommzigt. This brings us to the end of the second term of office. The directors have indicated that they need about ten minutes to prepare themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u295	I give the floor to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u296	Mr. Chairman. One motion on my side, namely the motion in part No. 20, and a few questions. I'm deceiving the motion in part No. 20. The second half of the motion is a statement of fact. It says: you must carry out an earlier motion. That's what we're gonna do, of course. In the first half there are blames that are not true and requests that cannot be. I therefore advise against the motion in part No. 20. Then the questions. I will begin with the policy adjustments in the light of the lessons. Mr Van der Lee asked how the Chamber was informed about the policy changes resulting from the lessons I mentioned.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u297	Before proceeding, Mr Omtzigt would like to comment on the appreciation of his motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u298	I'd like to know what things aren't possible in the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u299	First of all, there is another reproach, on which we have had a whole debate and with which I totally disagree, namely the second recital. The observation is part of the conversations we are having. These are further extensions of the debate we have had on this subject. It has nothing to do with this debate. So we're really going to dissuade that motion. Mr. Chairman. Then I guess I'll keep going. Oh, I see Mr Omtzigt coming back.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u300	Yes. Mr Omtzigt has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u301	We've had a progress report. 1,529 objections have been raised so far. Of these, 179 have been completed. That is less than 10% of the parents' objections. There's a waiting period of years. Five opinions per week will be finalised. 35 objections were raised per week. Waiting list's rising. There are 489 notifications to the Commission. 155 of them have been completed. The waiting period is eight months. It's getting up. Over the last four years, 4,000 requests for a file have been made. Of these, 498 have been completed. 3,500 people are still waiting on a file. I remember three Secretary of State who resigned from that office three years ago. I'm sorry this all sounds a little blasphemy, but this is...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u302	Yeah, pretty much. I was referring to the second recital.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u303	Mr. Ommzigt, please ask the Prime Minister your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u304	My second point is that we have not yet received any news that even one of the out-of-home children is back with the parents. Not one.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u305	Okay. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group).
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u306	That is why, in the motion, I have asked that within six months of that, two of them have already passed by, to carry out this carefully and to do something for the parents. I don't think that's a weird question. So I ask the government to do the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u307	I did not refer to the first observation which Mr Omtzigt is now making in detail. I was talking about the second observation. That's point one. Secondly, he comes here with additional requests, which ignore the debate that we have had here extensively for a day about the children who have been taken out, together with Franc Weerwind. This debate is not about children who are placed in their homes. This debate is about accountability for 2021. I find it unwise to make commitments now about what is here, in this form. The second half of the motion, as I have already said, is a statement of fact, namely that a motion has been adopted which must now be implemented. So I advise against this motion. I'm gonna take that advice.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u308	I ask the Minister to go back to answering a number of questions. Mr. Ommzigt, I understand it's a very important subject, but no new discussion about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u309	Mr President, I would just like to say that it cannot be both true. The Prime Minister says that the second operative part goes much further than previously stated. And at the same time he says: the operative part only asks for an adopted motion to be carried out. It can't be both true. It calls for an approved motion to be carried out in detail. That's why I'm simply asking the Chamber, 150 Members of Parliament, to look into this. There are parents who have to wait years and years now. I don't have a quick solution. I don't have a proposal that's gonna make it quick, but something's gonna have to happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u310	Mr. Chairman. The motion contains two recitals and three dictations. The second recital is not correct. That is my first objection to the motion. The second operative part is a statement of fact: there is an adopted motion and the current motion calls for that adopted motion to be carried out. We're running it. The first operative part is unwise to me. That's why I don't recommend the motion. The combination of the second recital and the first operative part is reason for me to reject this motion with some firmness. And the second and third dictatorships are being carried out, because it is an adopted motion. In that sense, that is a statement of fact. Mr. Chairman. Then a few questions that have been asked. Mr. Van der Lee asked how we inform the Chamber. I mentioned those first-term classes. I am involved in the decision-making process and other members of the cabinet are, of course, involved in the decision-making process. Implementation is given an important place at the table in the decision-making process on new policies. For example, we have recently had eight representatives of the public service in the cabinet. In the autumn, as a Council of Ministers, we will again discuss this issue with people from outside. It is quite exceptional that we do, but this was very important and it was also very inspiring. Then we're going to share things with the Chamber in different ways, starting by testing proposals for feasibility. Of course, that is what it is all about when we talk about amendments. But it also has to do with how we deal with the explanatory statement. Furthermore, by means of the annual publication of the State of execution, unfiltered signals are released from the execution. These are the feedback loops, in good Dutch, which we talked about earlier and which can also lead to policy adjustment. The ministers responsible regularly inform the Chamber of how things are going. In the context of active disclosure, notes and opinions on the basis of which a political assessment has been made shall be published. Then you also see which considerations there are in relation to the execution. These are a number of points, but of course we are going to look for what else we can do. Then there was the question: what do you do for the parents who are waiting for the full assessment? First of all, I would like to say that the cabinet wants to help all parents as quickly as possible and offer a perspective on a new start. Parents who register with UHT will be given a first test to determine whether they are injured or not, and whether they are eligible for the €30,000 scheme. In the case of parents who are found to be entitled to that scheme, the debt approach will also be started, first the pause and then the cancellation of public debts and the resolution of private debt backlogs. Regardless of the outcome of the first test, parents can proceed to an integral assessment. With the emotional recovery to get these parents' lives back on track, there is obviously no need to wait for that integral assessment. The municipalities have a major role to play and they are actively involved in this. Broad support is offered to all parents. This broad support focuses on emotional recovery, but also on providing perspective on a new start, for example through legal support, social work or assistance in living or health. This does not depend on the lead time of the full assessment or on the status of the compensation. The review of the whole recovery operation will also consider whether serious cases can be picked up earlier. Parents who are in acute distress, for example because they are seriously ill or can no longer buy groceries or medicines, can of course go to the municipality for emergency assistance. Anyone who has registered with UHT can also contact the service team for urgent problems. This will see where help can be sought and, if necessary, an emergency facility will be provided. In addition, pilots are running the so-called breakthrough method, in which interdisciplinary work is being done on the broad recovery of parents who need more or more complex help. Mr President, that is in addition to my first term and the opinion on one motion. Then the Minister of Finance will give an opinion to all other motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u311	I thank the Prime Minister for his second term and I give the floor to the Minister for Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u312	Thank you, Madam President. Thanks also to the Chamber for both its patience, insights and advice as well as its criticism. I have three more questions left. The first is a question from Mr Dassen and Mr Omtzigt. They wondered how the Chamber should deal with the issue of discharge to the cabinet while there is a greater margin of error in relation to European accountability. Mr Omtzig also asked about the negative opinion of the European Court of Auditors. In Europe, I say first, it only reports about the unlawfulness of expenditure and not also about obligations, as is the case in the Netherlands. The percentage of irregularities on expenditure reported in the European Annual Report 2020 was 2.7. Therefore, this percentage is significantly higher than that of the unlawful expenditure in the Netherlands, namely 1.01% in 2021. In addition, there are structural errors in European accountability that have not been resolved over the years. In fact, I believe that the Netherlands has almost a tradition of voting against, with one or two years in favour. A negative opinion has been given in many years. Another reason for not granting discharge is that the European Court of Auditors has issued a negative audit report on the European budget. The General Court, on the other hand, issued a declaration of approval in national accounts. I am, of course, aware of the spirit and intention of the comments made in the presentation of the President of the General Court. So it doesn't mean that the cabinet is now saying: there's been a declaration of approval we've discussed this so the problems aren't there or we don't take them seriously. We have appointed the measures: the commitment, the task force and the work that the cabinet will do jointly from the system responsibility with or by the Ministry of Finance. So we really want to commit ourselves to preventing a structural trend in expenditure errors.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u313	The declaration of approval of the General Court only looks at whether it is ready for examination in the Lower House. The President of the General Court is very clear about that. The approving statement did not take into account the fact that the margin of tolerance was maintained. In fact, he was extremely upset about that. In my view, we also see structural errors in the Dutch budget. So my question is whether Minister Kaag, from her expertise as Minister of Finance, believes that the House of Representatives should issue a discharge for a budget that does not meet the tolerance margin in ten chapters.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u314	As I just said, our margins are tight when it comes to spending in the Netherlands: 1.01%. The border is set at 1. I think that having said everything with all the reasons and context and the course of change that has been put in place, there is, hopefully, reason to give approval to this cabinet, because we have debated everything widely and in transparency and because in the corona time there is the percentage of deviations, so to speak, illegalities... A large part is not fraud, is not money that is really never spent well. It is the process of approval which is the subject of this debate. From my point of view... but you shouldn't ask me for advice. It's your own weighing. So I'd like to return these. In the end, it is up to the Chamber to give that judgment. I hope that I will reword that, on the basis of the debate, even today, if requested, the Chamber will give its approval.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u315	I heard 1.01%, but the problem wasn't in the revenue tolerance margin. It was way below 1%. It was a small part of the margin of tolerance for expenditure, but it was huge in the tolerance for the obligations. On the promises of where spending would be made, we are at 5%. That is 400% higher than the standard tolerance. That couldn't have been explained by corona. Then it would still be way above it. The question is whether the government would like an approval declaration for an annual report with a tolerance rate of 5.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u316	Honestly, I'm not gonna answer this question. It is up to Mr Omtzigt to answer that question himself. I think that we have had a genuine debate here and have illustrated what work we are going to do. We have identified the context in which ministries have worked. We have talked about the decisions, which have often also been taken in consultation with the House of Representatives. Of course, there are a lot of things in procurement that we want different now. The ministries are at the bar. But I do not think I am going to answer Mr Omtzigt's question and answer it myself. We've been discussing this. It's up to the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u317	The Minister is prosecuting her... Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u318	Mr President, thank you for that. It means that when the Minister of Finance presents an annual report with a tolerance margin of 5%, i.e. 5% which cannot be proved lawfully, she does not dare to say in the Chamber that she thinks we should approve it. I haven't seen that before in all the time I've been in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u319	Well, I'm here for the first time, and I'm not used to this kind of questioning either. I have had a genuine debate here and I do not think I need to answer a question to the Chamber itself. So this is my answer to the case. I think it's up to the Chamber to weigh this. This isn't a refusal, but I don't think it's up to me to give a report to myself. Mr Van der Lee asked another question about the assessment of the Compatibility Act and four moments of budgetary adjustment. I have to correct myself. I thought the evaluation would be completed by the end of 2022, but the evaluation will be completed in the first half of 2023. All I want to say is that we're really gonna see if it can be accelerated. I'm not saying that because of my own fault, but because I think it's important to be able to take it quickly. Mr Van der Lee also asked about the integration of the core set of planning agencies into the budgetary system. Can't we do that faster than five years? Fortunately, it is more complex, so there is hope, I say towards Mr Van der Lee. As he knows, the development of the core set is in the hands of the planning agencies. By the end of this month, the planning agencies will publish the first progress report. They want to complete the full core set with opportunities to estimate all indicators and pass on policies. That can accumulate over a period of five years. But we're not gonna wait five years, of course. I think that is also the clarification that Mr Van der Lee wants. I think that's normal, and I don't want to. So we are going to systematically include the progress reports on the development of the core set in the fiscal cycle, thus including the upcoming progress report in the Millions Note. We'll take that first step. I want to work with you on what can be done better and faster. Moreover, Mr Van der Lee has heard of me before: we do not want to come up with our own alternative of broad prosperity or indicators. It must be something that can be applied widely in society in the future, in the cabinet, in the national government, in the local authorities, in the provinces. Then it really has a system operation. Perhaps this will help Mr Van Raan too.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u320	Mr Alkaya wants to ask a question about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u321	No. But before the Minister passes the assessment of the motions I say that I have consulted with the author of the motion in part No. 21, Mr Omtzigt, and I would like to co-sign that motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u322	Thank you. The motion in part No. 21 was therefore signed by Mr Omtzigt and also by Mr Alkaya.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u323	The motion in part No. 5 belongs to Mr. Heinen. I would like to give this motion judgment Chamber, but I would like to be able to interpret it as follows. The cabinet will exercise as much restraint as possible in the coming period by appealing to Article 2.27. It falls under the category "no, unless," if possible. The evaluation is ongoing and, of course, we will consult with your Chamber in 2023 to amend the Compliance Act. In addition, in cooperation with you and the audit authorities such as the Audit Service and the General Court, I will check whether I can operationalise the condition that the States General considers itself sufficiently informed. It must also have a little hands and feet, and it must be clear what we mean by that. I think it's obvious. But I would like to say immediately: in consultation with you, so I would like to hear from Mr Heinen what he thinks it should be. What does he think?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u324	It must of course be workable, also for the Audit Service who must check whether the Chamber has been informed. I agree. But I don't want us to get down the road to the conclusion: we can't operationalize, so we're not gonna do it. So if the Minister feels an effort to achieve a workable understanding, in consultation with the Chamber, then I can certainly support this reading of the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u325	Feelings are always difficult to operationalize, but there is the commitment and commitment to get as far as possible. Then the motion to part No. 6, by Mr Alkaya: judgment of the Chamber. I endorse the importance he wishes to express with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u326	Isn't it possible to take over the motion? I'll take a look at Mr. Alkaya. It was also a commitment. I can honestly imagine that everyone can support this. Is that possible? Mr. Alkaya.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u327	Of course, if the Minister takes over the motion in full.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u328	Will the Minister take over this motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u329	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u330	Yes. Is there any objection to that? That is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u331	Then the motion to part No. 7 by Mr Alkaya. I must advise against this, unless the motion is modified and the cabinet is only asked to examine the policy effects mentioned. Then the motion can get judgment room.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u332	I'll take a look at Mr. Alkaya.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u333	In my view, then, the final point is that 'alternative measures to achieve the same objectives'. Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u334	I'm gonna get confirmation from the people who advise. Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u335	Okay. We will then discuss possible alternative measures later. Well, at least I'll get it out of this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u336	Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u337	The Alkaya motion (No ) has been amended to read as follows: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that in recent years there have been a number of under-substantiated measures on the table for a long time or even have been introduced to be reversed, despite many concerns, arguments and resistance from society;]] [[considers that this contributes to public distrust and leads to uncertainty in society;]] [[calls on the government to first investigate:]] [[the expected impact on regional disparities;]] [[the purchasing power of people with the lowest incomes and those with no alternative to the car;]] [[the effect on the number of flights;]] [[and to inform the Chamber thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] She's getting No. , was No. 7 ().
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u338	The motion in part No. President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: The motion in part No. 9, by Mr Nijboer: judgment of the Chamber. The motion in part No. Of course, 10 by Mrs Van Dijk is a very sympathetic motion. It expresses its concern about the decline in social contacts and trust. These are all worrying developments, but from the cabinet we believe that the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau is investigating social contacts and trust, for example in the social state of the Netherlands. They are also working on new publications that fit well with the budget cycle in spring and August. So we think this is a very difficult one. We do not know whether there is any added value. On that basis, I advise against this motion. The motion in part No. 11, by Mr Van der Lee: judgment of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u339	I am looking at Mr Van der Lee for this motion. I think you would have embraced this motion as a promise.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u340	Sure, sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u341	Then I would suggest that this motion be taken over. Is there any objection to taking over the motion in part No. 11? That is not the case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u342	The motion in part No. 12, by Mr Van Raan: judgment of the Chamber. The motion in part No. 13 by Mr Van Raan. I don't recommend this one. In the past, the cabinet has worked according to the methods of the VBTB, from policy budget to policy accountability. We have since 2013 the methodology Responsible Budgeting. There are a lot of documents and sufficient flows of information, such as letters, evaluations, notes and notes, in which all the information comes to explain how the goals are being achieved. The motion in part No. 14 by Mr Van Raan: dissuade. The motion in part No. 15 by Mr Van Raan: dissuade. The motion in part No. 16 by Mr Van Raan: dissuade. The motion in part No. 17 by Mr Dassen, I give judgment to the Chamber. You know there was a headline. You referred to it yourself. This is now being developed. All people will be involved in the research requested and in the results of the studies that are or have been initiated. Let's see what else we got. The spirit and spirit of this motion is, in my understanding, entirely carried out by the Home Office. The motion in part No. 18. Through you, Mr President, I say in the direction of Mr Ephraim: if I may explain the motion in such a way that once a year an overview of reversals and measures is given to the Chamber, I can give its opinion to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u343	Let me take a look at Mr Ephraim. He's okay with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u344	The motion in part No. 19 by Mr Ephraim I must advise against. It's not feasible. The motion in part No. 21 I do not recommend it, because it anticipates, among other things, the decision-making process in August.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u345	Thank you. That concludes this debate. I would like to thank both directors for their detailed answers, and I thank the Members of Parliament and the people who have followed the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u346	We are going to vote next Tuesday on the motions that have been tabled. Then we are going to debate the Spring Note. I thank everyone.
