ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u1	The next item is the debate on the Security Test on Investment, Mergers and Acquisitions Act. This Act introduces a test on acquisition activities that may pose a risk to national security in view of their impact on vital providers or undertakings active in the field of sensitive technology. The law follows from a European regulation in this area.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u2	There are six speakers from the Chamber. Once again, I would like to welcome the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy. As the first speaker, Mr Van Haga will speak on behalf of the Van Haga Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u3	Mr. Chairman. BVNL stands for a free Netherlands, a free Netherlands where everyone can live their own lives and where entrepreneurs can enter into. This is also a Netherlands in which the government stays in the background and intervenes only on matters where it is necessary and in which the government can be useful. The bill we are discussing today is therefore a difficult consideration for BVNL. In fact, the possibility of setting up a review of acquisition activities for certain types of companies gives the government a great deal of power. We have seen in recent years what a powerful government can be capable of. Moreover, we have also seen that a powerful government can make big mistakes and can hardly correct this. See the supplementing affair and the destruction after two years of disproportionate corona measures. On the other hand, BVNL also sees that this law can be of added value for our country. This proposal looks specifically at the impact on our national security, a task that is one of the most important for the government as far as BVNL is concerned. If our national security can be compromised by falling into the wrong hands of vital companies and sensitive technologies, then the government must do something about it. The question is whether blocking acquisition activities is the right way to do this. That is why BVNL still has a number of questions. Mr. Chairman. This bill could have a negative impact on our locational climate. That's something we need to take a serious look at. Investing in companies falling into the interface of this law may become less attractive, given the risk that an investment cannot continue or can be partially or completely reversed. In addition, the proposal also provides for the possibility of undoing investments initially approved. How is it in relation to the investment security? Does the Minister agree with BVNL that this will lead to a deterioration? It may also take many months in certain cases to decide on an acquisition activity. In some cases an exemption may be granted, but it is not good for any company if it has to wait a long time for certainty. My question to the Minister is therefore whether the time limit for deciding on the possible review and the review itself could not be a little shorter. I have not yet mentioned the possibility of appealing to the decision taken. I expect this to be widely used in a negative assessment. So does the Minister have an estimate of how long a profession is going to last on average? Mr. Chairman. The Minister may take a number of measures under this law if he considers that national security is at stake in an acquisition activity. As far as BVNL is concerned, the starting point must be to opt for a proportionate measure with as little harmful effects as possible. It is therefore good to read that the Minister indicates that an appropriate measure is always being chosen to take into account the seriousness and potential consequences of the acquisition activity. And yet I would like to know from the Minister exactly how she decides to opt for a particular measure. It seems as if many factors are relevant. How quickly will the Minister ban an acquisition activity? It is also important to ensure that this law is implemented at random. The Minister has built in a number of issues to limit arbitrariness, but BVNL still sees this as a danger. There is still a reasonable amount of freedom for the Minister to decide on the measures to be taken. That is why I am curious whether the Minister can explain to me how arbitrariness can be avoided between similar cases. Mr. Chairman. Then it's the time of day. BVNL has a reasonable objection to this bill on this point. The Minister will soon be given the power to impose new requirements and to impose conditions on acquisition activities almost two years ago. An acquisition may even be undone. As far as BVNL is concerned, this sends a very bad signal to companies and investors who are interested in doing business in the Netherlands or who are already active in the Netherlands. If an investment can be reversed after two years, I would start thinking very carefully about whether the Netherlands is still an attractive country to invest in. It's very strange at all that you should consider a law that hasn't even been passed. The fact that an acquisition can then be assessed retroactively does not affect our investment climate as far as BVNL is concerned and can potentially have a major impact on the future. We have to deal with this very carefully. Is this going to set a precedent, which will prevent this type of practice more often in the future? I'd like a response from the Minister to this. I would also like to ask whether the Minister can indicate whether any acquisition activities have taken place since the date on which they took place which could potentially pose a threat to national security. Of course I don't need to hear names, because I can't, but I'm curious if there have been any companies at all. I'm assuming the Minister has a visual on that. If these are not there, then this part of the law seems superfluous to me. In any case, I have tabled an amendment that has probably already been seen by everyone that this date is deleted from the legislative proposal, so that our locational environment is not damaged and legal certainty for companies and investors is guaranteed. I therefore hope that the Minister will give this serious consideration, as the implications of this date are enormous. Mr. Chairman. I also have a question about the evaluation of this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u4	May I interrupt you for a moment? Mr Kwint probably has a question for you on the amendment, but at least on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u5	That's right, Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Haga himself asks the cabinet if any takeovers have been stopped since that date. What if the answer later shows that important, vital companies have not been taken over or that there has been intervention? Does he still want to table his amendment or does he want to withdraw it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u6	Of course, that's exactly the field of tension we're dealing with. If it's really very essential things that have to do with military situations or things that you really don't want them to fall into foreign hands, then that's what this law is about. We're not against this law either. But it gets very strange if you did have an acquisition first, and then you correct it afterwards. You'll have to deal with that very carefully. As far as we are concerned, that date really goes out. But I share the tension field entirely with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u7	You're advocating caution. That is why I wonder whether the generic deletion of such a date without knowing what it might have been or might have been, or whether it is the due diligence.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u8	On the contrary, it is careful and it also shows respect for legal certainty to delete that date. What Mr Kwint is referring to is, in my view, the question: is it in the interests of the Netherlands to delete that date? That's a tension field. But you also have to think about legal certainty and the investment climate. In this respect, we think that this is too generic a measure, which is too many companies in so far as it exists, but of course we do not know yet, because they have never been able to take that into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u9	Mr Van Haga continued his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u10	Then I have another question about the evaluation of this law. We can only expect them after five years and I seriously wonder if that is not a little late. This bill could potentially have a major impact on our locational climate. We are not proposing a large-scale evaluation, but it would be nice if the Minister would be prepared, for example, to look at the operation and consequences of this law after two years, if it were to be adopted. Hopefully the Minister will be able to agree to that. Mr. Chairman. I would also like to stress that it is a good thing for BVNL that we are doing something to prevent problems in the future. We need to be able to guarantee the safety of our country, and that also means protecting certain providers and technologies from potential malicious parties. Mr President, in conclusion. Potentially, we have here a bill that can contribute to a safer Netherlands. On the other hand, it gives the government a lot of power over part of the market, and that is something we have difficulty with. In addition, a bureaucratic monster can be created in case of poor implementation, and this can lead to a serious dent in the Dutch locational climate. I am therefore curious about the Minister's answers and whether these answers can convince BVNL of the added value of this bill. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u11	Thank you very much for your input. Mr De Jong will then speak. He'll do that on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u12	Thank you, Mr President. Finally, there is the Security Test Investment, Mergers and Acquisitions Act. It has taken a long time for him to be discussed in this way in the Chamber. The law protects vital companies and sensitive technology against enemy countries. For us it is a good law with an important purpose, but it is a complex law, as I have just heard Mr Van Haga say. That is why I would like to be the first to thank the officials for the very useful technical briefing. Many of the questions that my group has been struggling with have been answered. That's why I can keep it a little shorter today. Mr. Chairman. I told you before: the creation of this law goes back years, even before my time in this Chamber, when there were discussions at KPN and PostNL. But since then, the problem has not got any worse. We also see it again in the war between Ukraine and Russia. At the same time as that terrible war with weapons there is also a digital war taking place to inform, to infrastructure used to communicate. And although this is less visible, it is no less disruptive. Mr. Chairman. We need to protect our vital companies and sensitive technology. In D66's view, this law is a good means of guaranteeing that strategic autonomy, something that Mr Amhaouch of the CDA has often called attention to. My group therefore supports this proposal. But during the technical briefing we also discussed the question: how does this law work in companies with different parts, where part is sensitive and part is not? I am thinking, for example, of a campus, where we have a lot of it in the Netherlands, but Eindhoven is perhaps the most famous example. As spokesman for innovation, I have been able to visit many of these campuses. What happens there is innovative and inspiring, and is also attractive to foreign investors. Mr Van Haga just referred to it. We also need to ensure that those investors stay here to invest in those innovations. I understood during the technical briefing that the part of the campus that concerns, for example, a laboratory is covered by this law, but companies without a laboratory, i.e. not necessarily bound to the building, are not. This is precisely where a campus structure is very important in order to protect these companies. I therefore ask the Minister: how do we ensure that the entire ecosystem of companies is protected? Mr. Chairman. Then I'm going to go to technological developments and adjust criteria. The technique does not stand still. There are a lot of technological developments, fortunately, but this can make technology that is not yet characterised as sensitive more sensitive. My group therefore welcomes the fact that the so-called scope of application of this law can be adapted by means of a general measure of governance. I therefore ask the Minister: how does the Minister investigate what new techniques that exist should be identified as potentially sensitive? How is the Chamber informed of any intention or decision to use a general measure of governance to characterize a technique as sensitive? I would specifically like to draw attention to companies in the start-up or scale-up phase, which are not yet vital or sensitive, but which can be. Mr President, I will conclude. The Netherlands needs to be strategically autonomous. To do so, we need to protect our vital processes and sensitive technology. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u13	Thank you very much, also for the conciseness of your input. The next speaker from the Chamber will be Mrs Van Dijk on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u14	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The CDA welcomes this bill, which we believe is not a day too early. At the same time, we do not think that the legislative proposal goes far enough. Acquisitions of key business campuses, which are of national and strategic importance for the Netherlands, are not covered by the scope of the legislative proposal. The sale of the High Tech Campus Eindhoven to a Singaporean state company was not tested. The CDA thinks that's undesirable. Mr. Chairman. The CDA is pushing for a fair economy. An honest economy is an economy in which we look beyond the short term, today's profits, or just the return of the shareholder, in which we do not have the right of the strongest or the thickest wallet, but in which we also do not lose sight of our long-term social interests, in which we are thriving on what is all of us and on what we have achieved with community money, without retreating behind the dikes. Mr. Chairman. As far as we are concerned, this bill certainly contributes to a fair economy. It must ensure security in a rapidly changing, not uncommonly hostile world. If it is up to the CDA, it must also contribute to strategic autonomy and our future earning ability, because that too is in the interests of the generations now and the generations after us. Which brings me to the sale of the High Tech Campus Eindhoven last year to a Singaporean state-owned company. As far as the CDA is concerned, that was a strategic error. This sale would not have been covered by this bill because, according to the Cabinet, national security was not at stake and it was merely a real estate transaction. The CDA considers this a strategic error, because it is not just a pile of stones that changes ownership, but a crown jewel of innovation. You're not gonna let that happen in the sale. Innovations where billions of euros of Community money go annually, where public-private cooperation is carried out and where daily patents roll off the band, are of great public interest. One question to the Minister is: how does this law protect matters of great public interest? How do we even protect these unique innovations? Mr. Chairman. In a fair economy, we must conserve what is all of us by also trying to protect what is all of us. At present, innovative ecosystems or company campuses where public-private collaboration on technologies and applications of economic and strategic importance for the Netherlands are not safe for unwanted takeovers. To do something about this, today, as a first step, we are proposing an amendment to broaden the scope of the legislative proposal, so that acquisition activities aimed at the manager of a company campus should also be subject to a safety check in advance. In addition, the CDA wants more tools to be able to pre-check and, in extreme cases, prevent takeovers in, for example, clusters of companies, by allowing takeover by a Dutch party, or possibly by state participation, in the event of a threat of acquisition from abroad. To this end, we are considering a motion in the second term. Mr. Chairman. A limited number of questions and comments on the original bill, first of all on the list of vital processes used by the National Coordinator on Counter-Terrorism and Security. The food production chain is missing from that list. That's what the CDA finds striking. It is therefore a good thing that the cabinet has a renewed vitality assessment of the food supply in the Netherlands. The CDA is curious about the results of this. In addition, as far as we are concerned, there is no postal service for vital providers. During the corona crisis, we experienced how crucial package mail can be, especially when it comes to receiving medicines and, for example, voting in letters. How's the minister looking at this? Mr. Chairman. In response to our questions in the written round, the Minister writes that, apart from this bill, more offensive measures are also being used within economic security policies that strengthen our economic structure. What measures does the Minister intend to take? Mr President, last but not least. There has been no SME test due to a lack of participants. Unfortunately, this is more common in SME tests. This is a subject for another debate, but can the Minister outline the impact of this bill, specifically for SMEs? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u15	Thank you very much. I too would like to thank you for having used less than half the speaking time you have given. The next speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mr Graus, on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u16	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I, too, may not need those ten minutes. First of all, I would like to agree that this SME test should be used wherever possible; that SME test is from my motion at the time. It's being used far too little. I said that in other debates in which it was discussed. We need to use this SME test much more for new legislation and regulation, but also for existing legislation and regulation. I don't understand why it's not used for that. It has never been used for agriculture either. To be honest, I cannot understand that, because my motion was adopted in Parliament at the time. So I don't understand why this isn't being picked up by the government anymore. Thank you, therefore, to my CDA colleague for raising it in this debate. We've been asking since 2007... That was with Sharon Gesthuizen at the time. That's Mr. Kwint's former colleague. I joined the Chamber with her in November 2006. I've always worked well with her. The SP, the Socialist Party, and the PVV have always worked against these takeovers, which are sometimes called "enemy takeovers." It was also about energy companies at the time. We were the only ones who warned: "Guys, beware. It's heat, it's energy, it's a primary need for life. We're gonna be dependent on overseas soon. Now pay attention." In 2007, here in this Chamber, I warned against the strategic deployment of gas from abroad. I warned you about that. Then Mr. Van Dam, the former colleague of Mr. De Jong of D66, stood on his back legs, because he thought I was going to "bashen" foreigners again, as he called it, but I just got right. I've never been called "Nostradionus" for nothing. When I say something, it always comes true after so many years. I thank the SP. That's where they've always believed it, including those energy companies. At least we tried to avoid that. We couldn't do that because we were the only ones. So, unfortunately, we all had to let that go. And in retrospect, they should have listened to us. In any event, this legislative proposal will provide for a safety test for investments, mergers and acquisitions that may pose a risk to national security. In that sense, the PVV also supports this. I don't think anyone can be against it. At least, I suspect so. I notice that with colleagues; they will all be there for it. Our request went a little further. This test will naturally protect vital companies and also sensitive technology more. Of course, you can't be against that. But our proposal goes on. We do not want any company of national interest to come into foreign hands. And there may also be discussion about what is "of national interest." That is the same kind of question as the question of what is "essential" and what is "non-essential." We have discussed this question for several hours. So with that question about national interest, it's going to be a dull mess, and if we go into that, we're not gonna make it to lunch. So no company of national interest can be held by us in foreign hands. Primary necessities are not just about energy companies and heat. Without mentioning names, there are also certain companies that provide us with other primary necessities. They often have to do with the production of medicines and other things. It's about things that are just really important to be able to survive. Such companies must never be held in foreign hands. I mentioned heat and energy. I mentioned health as well. I will, of course, wait for the Minister's response, but I also have a motion for it that I may be submitting. Because we want to ensure that the affordability, security of supply and independence of foreign countries are always taken into account. But I also point to financial and economic consequences and social consequences. All that has to be taken away. Look at KLM. That should never have happened. Never! We've wasted our beautiful white swans, the profitable white swans. We've literally let the French eat the cheese from the bread. KLM is still doing well. KLM is also leading the way in the area of sustainability, I say towards the left. None of that should have happened. At the beginning of the period in which all this happened, I wasn't in the Chamber yet. But if that had been the case, of course I would have gone against it and I would have tried to stop it. Let's see, Mr. Chairman. I think I'm gonna wait and see what the minister's gonna say. I'm holding a motion. So I'll leave it at that, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u17	Very good. And you, too, have indeed used considerably less speaking time than had been given. The second last speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mr Van Strien of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u18	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We're dealing with an important bill today. Given the geopolitical threats, the changing international playing field and the aggressive course of some non-free countries, this bill is urgently needed as far as the VVD is concerned. We are therefore pleased with the bill. It was in the previous cabinet period the VVD that wanted the cabinet to quickly start working on such a proposal. We can't be naive. We need to protect our national security, and monitor vital providers and sensitive technologies against unwanted buyers. Since then, developments have only made this need more urgent. Unfree countries such as China and Russia are increasingly trying to gain influence and control in Western companies and infrastructures with sensitive technology. We see them in the Netherlands and in our neighbouring countries. I mention the strong competition during the covid crisis to gain access to possible vaccines. I mention attempts by China to acquire the electricity grid in Germany. I call Russia that through Gazprom Germania wants to sabotage the European gas supply. And anyone who had any doubts as to whether these countries were actually serious was given proof of this with the hitherto unimaginable and horrific war on the EU's borders. Mr. Chairman. Whoever puts his head over the Dutch dikes today sees not the calm sea, but the turbulent births. And in order to be able to sail well and safely, the breeding and the traps of our ship must be cited. As far as the VVD is concerned, this time justifies the government taking a stronger role in the economy. Only in this way can we guarantee our open economy and future earning capacity. After all, through our international orientation, open society and open economy, we all, all Dutch, benefit daily from the opportunities and opportunities that digitalisation and globalisation, for example. Among other things, our favourable locational environment, excellent infrastructure and strong innovation position attract foreign investors and companies. They bring capital, knowledge and exchange of technologies and ideas and in turn strengthen our earning capacity. By protecting that vital infrastructure and guaranteeing our national security, the Netherlands is controlling what is happening in our own country, we are acting against undesirable foreign influence and we are protecting our companies and a healthy free market, which has brought us so much prosperity. This law aims to do exactly that: protect national security by introducing a sophisticated test on recruitment activities leading to the acquisition of control in providers. I see Mr Kwint.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u19	I can confirm that. Mr Van Strien just said: this is the time that justifies this law. I often hear nowadays that we live in a unique time that justifies unique measures. I usually find that not so bad in practice. What is so unique about this time that justifies better protection of our vital infrastructure? Is it not true that vital infrastructure should be something to always protect and that time is not so unique, but that the political way in which it is looked at has changed?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u20	Thank you for Mr Kwint's question. We've been going through a process for a while. We already have the Electricity Act, the Gas Act and so on in which we have included a number of vital sectors. We can only see now that this is not enough and that we are also dealing with the more aggressive attitude of what we then call non-free countries, which are going one step further and further. In that sense, I think we should have abandoned some of the naivety we may have had before.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u21	Okay, then it's different. Then it is not so much that the world around us is changing, but we have become less naive ourselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u22	It is a combination, as is often the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u23	It could be. For example, if you take on the electricity sector, you can see that the self-regulations have made it much easier for foreign powers to buy themselves into our vital infrastructure. They were deployed 15 or 20 years ago. That's why I was kind of looking for what makes this time so unique. But I count my blessings and also see that there are more and more vital infrastructures for the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u24	Even in this debate, the classic contradiction between the SP and the VVD re-emerges on market economy. I do like it... I believe that the Netherlands has 99.9% energy security. That is also because of the market forces that your party sometimes dislikes. I was talking about control. The law intervenes precisely where national security interests insist. I think this is a very good test, with the least possible impact on the investment climate and the locational environment, legal certainty and entrepreneurship. The only point of contact is to control and, preferably, to combat the risks to national security. That is why we are looking at a number of amendments which have been tabled and which will undoubtedly be discussed in the near future. Aren't they going a little too far? To get back to the dike I mentioned earlier, the dike we look over: as far as the VVD is concerned, that dike must be higher. It must be a protective wall with an effective alarm system that warns us when there are buyers approaching who want evil. A law that keeps evildoers out or kicks them out and is transparent, predictable and clear to any reliable party that wants to invest in the Netherlands. The law achieves this as far as the VVD is concerned by providing a system of rules for interweaving activities. It is precisely because of the importance that the VVD attaches to this law and the urgency that we feel to set up that system of rules quickly that the VVD has a number of questions, comments and even suggestions to this minister. Firstly, the amendment. The VVD considers it only logical that we in Parliament should have some control over which providers and technologies are going to be covered by this law, so that we can also play a part in responding to new developments. That is why we have tabled an amendment which introduces a slight veil on the articles that regulate which sensitive technologies, companies and sectors are to be covered by the law. The VVD considers it important that Parliament has prior insight and participation in which providers and technologies are covered. In doing so, we opted for a so-called 'light' suspension procedure. This makes it possible to switch quickly when providers or technologies are added to the list. For example, we agree with the balance sheet of this bill: protect national security, protect healthy free market and a flexible and agile law that takes into account rapid technological and geopolitical developments in the world. This may also mean that, as a parliament, on the basis of the many conversations we have as economic spokesmen in the country and the contacts we have, we can propose that a particular technique of which we see a rapid increase in importance should be included in this law. Madam Chairman... Mr Chairman. I'm not doing it wrong anymore! Mr. Chairman. I'll come back to the metaphor of the dike one more time. I'm a sailor. When I look over the water, I can see where the wind draws or decreases. If I were to look over the water now, I would see few places where the wind is decreasing, quite the contrary. The turbulent births will be raging and the wind will blow in ways we cannot yet imagine. We must also be well prepared as a country. I sincerely hope that this law will do so. However, the VVD is concerned about the increasing efforts of state actors to obtain sensitive business information via companies. We were just talking about that: what has changed? I would ask the Cabinet to inform the Chamber as soon as it appears that this law is not sufficient to prevent such attempts. I would ask the Minister to reflect on this in the debate and also to ask what instruments, for example, she might want and think more. For example, members of the VVD Group consider the question of reciprocity to be important in economic relations with third countries. If a third country does not allow foreign investment in a particular sector, can it also block investments and acquisitions in the same sector in the Netherlands for acquirers from the relevant third country? Can it comment on these options in the letter, which hopefully will be sent to the Chamber soon, on the locational climate and future economy? Or does it at least want to include this point in the evaluation, not only how this law works, but also whether the intended purpose of this law is sufficiently achieved or whether other instruments are needed? Finally, Mr. Chairman. There is no doubt in our minds that this law must be passed. I spoke earlier about the balance between national security guarantees and keeping the economy open. From that balance, I still have four questions. I see Mr Graus, Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u25	Mr. Graus.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u26	Mr President, through you I would like to ask Mr Van Strien the following question. I've been trying to get a list of vital companies and sensitive technology for as long as I've been there. They're very broad terms. I asked other Cabinets if we could have a list of them. I think we in the Chamber can find something of that. It may well be that the government says "that company is not vital to us and not sensitive to us," but the Chamber finds it in a majority. For example, at KLM I am sure that they would have gone for it in a different Chamber composition, and now for sure at this time. I would like to ask you, perhaps, as a coalition partner too; you are closer to the Minister that that list is going to come and that we may have access to it and get a certain veil in those decisions. Maybe I'm not speaking for all the MPs, but I'm thinking for a lot.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u27	On the contrary, the explanatory memorandum to this law contains a very clear list of vital providers. There are also pre-sorted on a number of sensitive technologies that are covered in any case. I think we'll find each other when it comes to being kept informed as a chamber about what's being added to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u28	But none of these companies are on it. There are a lot of vital companies that are not mentioned anywhere or that are nowhere in sight. They are, of course, very broad concepts. I was just joking about substance and non-material. We have really had discussions about this in plenary, because what is that? Basically, it's nothing, because what's a lot for one isn't much for the other. I'd like that anyway. As a Member of Parliament, I do need this because we have to protect national interests and national security, but also the interests of citizens and businesses. We need to be able to control the government for that too. In fact, I think that companies will soon be merged or taken over, and a majority of the House, if we know it in good time, is against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u29	Mr. Chairman, I don't know if it's customary to ask a counter-question, but if I understand Mr. Graus correctly, would he like a list of individual companies?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u30	We're not always informed. We usually hear it too late when a merger is about to take place. Well, then most of the time, everything's already been set up, or we can't use it as a room. I would very much like to know which companies are sensitive companies. If necessary, this is confidential and only for MPs. What companies have this sensitive technology? Which companies are vital, national? Which companies are important for national security? Where is national security at stake? As a Member of Parliament, I have no idea of that. I know about some of them by experience experts and by what you read and experience, but I would like to know which companies the government believes are going to be covered. Because I think that when we get those lists, a lot of companies are going to be missing, which we might want to get on those lists.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u31	I thank Mr Graus for the question. I'd like to leave it with the Cabinet. The explanatory memorandum and the lists contained therein provide a framework. If we add that light front, which allows us as a Chamber to breathe with what might be covered, I myself think I can work with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u32	You scared me for a second, and I'm confused. I don't get that very often at the VVD. If I understand correctly, I just heard the VVD question whether we can also impose restrictions on other countries. Can we return that to countries that impose restrictions on us? Then I heard you say, just before I got up: I am very happy with this open economy. That's a bit of a contradiction. So I'm actually wondering if the VVD would like to clarify that. Is it true that I hear the VVD saying that they actually want to impose restrictions if a country does the same to us? Of course I expected a sailing metaphor from you, but that is a bit like putting the sailboat in the back of your ditch and going back and forth to the bridge, instead of actually looking over that dike. That's exactly what I expected at the VVD. So I'm just curious what's going on here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u33	I'm inclined to say something about skûtsjes, but I won't risk it with a Frisian in front of me. This law has a certain purpose, and I think we all agree with that objective: there must be an alert system for acquisition activities that threaten national security. We have to stop them. The only question is whether this law does that enough. My question to the Minister was: can you see in the evaluation you are going to include whether this law will also achieve that objective or whether other instruments are needed? Then, for example, you could think of that reciprocity. That is something that we have also exchanged here in Parliament on several occasions, so it cannot completely confuse you. There is certainly something to say for this system, but then you will also consider what that does with the open economy, entrepreneurship and so on. That is why we have put the question to the Minister to reflect on it. I think that's always good.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u34	Yes, and I agree with Mr Van Strien. I am also very interested in the Minister's answer to that. This law, of course, comes from Europe, because of course several countries are working on it. So I understand very well that Mr van Strien of the VVD says that they really are for this open economy and want to ensure that those European countries can also implement this legislation because all countries have their own interests. Then you can open the bridge and with your sailing yacht you can actually go to the open sea.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u35	Thank you. I very much invite Mr De Jong to listen to the fourth question that I will be asking later.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u36	Mr Van Strien continued his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u37	I come to the specific questions. We read that EZK can extend the eight-week period to six months without explanation. This may create investment uncertainty, as Mr Van Haga has already pointed out. Can the Minister indicate how it will prevent the use of this medicine too quickly? That brings me to a question about EZK's device deployment. I know the ladies and gentlemen on the Bezuidenhoutseweg as driven and hardworking. I therefore agree with the compliments that have been made, but I still wonder if attracting 3 fte will be enough to handle all the expected requests with speed and knowledge. If the wind blows from all sides of geopolitical developments and if the past few months are a harbinger, I wonder if some of 30 things per year, of which only five are complex, are real. How can the Minister be prepared for a larger caseload? How do we prevent things from being postponed because there are simply too many cases? Does the Minister see the possibility of creating a flexible shell, for example, so that it can be scaled up quickly, when needed? That comfort would be very welcome to us. How is the Minister going to ensure that entrepreneurs are sufficiently aware of the bill? Mr De Jong referred to this as well. During the technical briefing a number of very good questions were asked. I think that this point could deserve some extra attention. How do we ensure that entrepreneurs are aware of the coming of this bill from this predictability? The one-after-last question. I invite Mr De Jong to listen carefully. Can the Minister indicate what it considers to be the effects on the location and investment environment, taking into account what other European countries are doing? Are we in line with this law? The last question. Given the importance of the law, the VVD would like the first evaluation to take place after two or at least three years instead of after the five years now proposed. This is also how we keep a finger on the wrist at the point of impact. Also given the fact that EZK is able to work immediately according to the explanatory memorandum, two or three years seems a good time to reflect. (NL) Mr President, the conclusion. I hope that this law will find a good and quick passage through our Chamber, because only with this help will our beautiful ship keep the full wind in its sails over the stormy water. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u38	Thank you very much for your input. As a sailing lover I like sailing metaphors. It is also nice to see that technological developments such as heral wings and foils also allow sailing ships to sail faster and faster with that wind. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group). He speaks for the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u39	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna fill in for a debate on Economic Affairs once. On the one hand I see a lot of things that look familiar to me, such as VVD and D66 talking about expensive sailing boats. On the other hand, I do hear the VVD pleading for the hiring of more officials at once. So far it's been a mixed acquaintance, but I'm looking forward to appearing here a little more often. It has just been said: the misery of Russia's terrible invasion of Ukraine demonstrates, among other things, the need for this bill for those who have not yet been convinced. While Ukrainians fear and fight for their lives, Putin's war machine is still being used with hundreds of millions of dollars a day, because Russia has been given such a crucial influence in the energy supply. It also seems to have not filled enough gas for political reasons, which could endanger energy supply. Anyone who was still looking for an illustration of why this bill is needed does not have to look far. Although I have just said to Mr Van Strien that this illustration has been available to me for some time. It is harsh, even more than bitter, that this was necessary to wake up in the area of gas and energy supply. When it comes to other domains, my party has been choked on for too long. Think, for example, of digital matters; that has just been mentioned. Everyone knows the stories about, for example, Chinese companies that develop important digital infrastructure but now build in all kinds of backdoors. Let me give you an example. For example, not only faces of Dutch citizens, but also sensitive personal data can come into the hands of China. Is this bill really going to give people more protection, even at this point? That is a very important question for us. My party would like to say once again that anything that should not go bankrupt should not be left to the market. I still think that is very wise words. I would like to introduce a variant today: everything we all consider vital, we should have control. That calls for our control. Then the question is, how do you do that? Let me mention a few sectors. For example, in the field of education, I have experienced cases of which you think: do you have to organize them in this way? It was just about innovation and knowledge campuses. You can also see, for example, that for reasons of convenience, schools go far too easily with all kinds of companies that deal very loosely with the privacy of their students. If they are also foreign companies, then that data will simply end up abroad with large companies. That is also true when there is no state actor behind it, I would like to say again here. Can the acquisition by a foreign company, for example, be stopped when there is no state actor behind such a company, but we do believe that the safety of Dutch citizens is at stake? This does not necessarily require a state actor, even though this is mainly the context in which this debate takes place. For example, there is also a crucial manufacturing industry in the Netherlands, which causes so many problems, nuisances and health damage that a significant transition is needed. I call a company like Tata Steel. We simply notice that a shareholder in Mumbai does not have health in the region at the top of the priority list. Does the Minister agree with me that it is also possible to make changes or intervene there, is crucial for, for example, the quality of life for people in the environment, and that this requires control? Does the Minister agree with me that what is national security, the security of people in our country, may be interpreted more broadly than how it is usually done here? We could have avoided a great deal of suffering if, from the outset, there had been more control over the government and those involved. Control goes beyond a government that can stop something or has something to crumble into the milk. It's also about employees. How, for example, is their interest taken into account in investment tests that will be carried out in the near future? Can increasing the interest of employees also be a requirement linked to an acquisition activity? Employees often have the long-term aim of a company, while investors and shareholders are more focused on the short term. In this case, I would particularly like to refer to the Fair Sharing Act of my colleague Mahir Alkaya. If you have nothing to do for a moment, I can recommend you all to read that law. It's a damn good plan. Does the government share the SP's view that safeguarding employees' interests can be a way of securing the long-term goal of companies in the interests of our society? In the written consultation I was just talking about it, too, my group noted that the definition of economic, physical or social damage is actually limited to national security. We regret that. It is true that social damage is not only caused by the loss of control in providers of vital processes, to which this bill is limited. We have also seen examples of investors in coal power plants who bought in at a time when they knew we were going to phase out the use of fossil fuels. And they seemed, at least until recently, to receive considerable compensation. What about economic, physical or social damage deliberately caused by investors? Does the Minister agree with the SP that, in addition to pollution, which I have just mentioned, something like the long-term climate crisis could indeed be a threat to national security in the somewhat broad definition that we would at least advocate? Finally. If companies are possibly taken over, a pause button can be pressed, so to speak. That's what the debate was all about. This pause button imposes considerable restrictions on the new or planned owner as to what he can do with a business. However, dividend payments, for example, or withdrawal from a company's reserves, may take place. That's crazy. First of all, if you come to the conclusion that you don't want someone in a company like this, it's crazy that for some time you're gonna let them make a lot of money out of it. But I'm also thinking about the importance of the company itself. A withdrawal from the company's reserves may have a direct impact on the continuity of the business. There may be geopolitical reasons to try to buy a company, even if you know you're not going to get it, so as to be able to withdraw from the reserves and thereby endanger the continuity of a business. That is why we have tabled an amendment to give the possibility of imposing sanctions. Finally, we welcome the fact that the limits of the bliss of the free market are increasingly being seen on the right side of the Chamber. I wish you a great deal of progressive insight.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u40	You will have another question from Mr De Jong.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u41	Yes, chairman, and this time not about sailboats.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u42	That's a good thing, because I really don't know anything about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u43	Mr Kwint points out that we must be careful not to allow foreign companies to 'take a hold in the cash'. This sounds very sympathetic in itself, but I am very curious as to how Mr Kwint sees it. What does he see as reserves? They're in a lot of places in a company like this. Reserves may be in deprecated goods. There could be a quiet reserve there. They're not always on balance. There is already a law in the Netherlands that does not allow withdrawal from an e.g. that may be in liquidity difficulties. I am therefore particularly curious to see how Mr Kwint sees the practical effects. So what is the "control out of the cash" and what makes it possible for a company not to get in trouble by taking out liquidity?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u44	I think there are two different things that are going on; I have tried to emphasise that. One is indeed the continuity of a business. Indeed, you do not want, as you rightly say, a selection of the cash is made by an investor about whom you find afterwards that his motives are not so noble at all. You don't want him there, but in the meantime, he could've put a company at risk. The other is the question why you would even want an investor who ultimately doesn't get control of a company to make money from that company during the period in which an investigation is going on. Frankly, I wouldn't want to impose the exact limit of where those reserves are and what you should or shouldn't do about them so quickly with three decimals on, among other things, the additional officials advocated by the VVD. I think that they are much better able to do so than the two of us, or I shall let them speak for myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u45	For me, it also raises more questions. What you advocate, among other things, you might also say when filling up a company with extra loans, because that is the same danger.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u46	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u47	Then you come to a much broader discussion about how you want to deal with business. I would also like to put it in another place, because my party is in favour of strengthening companies' assets with own resources rather than simply pumping large-scale loans into companies, for which there are fiscal motives. So I will look again, through you, Mr President, at the Minister, so that she reflects on this. As far as I am concerned, we are addressing Mr Kwint's point not only in this law, but also in a broader economic debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u48	If the proposal is to deal with my suggestions more broadly than just in this debate, I can only welcome it, of course, whether I am present or not. I would, however, like to make sure that we deal with it here too, because there is indeed a direct line with the legislative proposal we are talking about and the continuity of what we see as vital activity.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u49	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. The Minister will also need some time to prepare the response. It is also a good time to suspend for lunch, so I suggest we resume the debate at 1.10 p.m. I'm suspending the meeting.
