ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-tweedekamer-31.u1	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the proposal for a law of Members Van Weyenberg and Maatoug amending the Law on flexible working in connection with the promotion of flexible work to work, i.e.: the Work Law wherever you want, Section 35714. I would like to welcome the initiators, Mr Van Weyenberg and Mrs Maatoug. This also applies to the support in box K. Those are actually the people who usually did the job. These are Mrs Agnes Maassen and Mr Koen Sijtsema, both working for the D66 Group and Mrs Meike Hellevoort, working for the GroenLinks Group. I would also like to welcome the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment to section K. It will act as an advisor to the Chamber in the handling of this bill. The first term of office took place on 14 June. We have now come to the first-term response of the initiators. That's what we're gonna start with right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-tweedekamer-31.u2	I give the floor to Mr Van Weyenberg. He will start and then Mrs Maatoug will take on the further defense of the bill. Then we'll continue with the second term. Mr Van Weyenberg, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-tweedekamer-31.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'd like to give you a brief introduction. In addition, I will also tell you in which blocks we will reply and how we have divided them among ourselves. I know the president likes that. Therefore, colleagues know whether their question should have been raised, or whether it will soon be. First of all, I would also like to congratulate Mr Simons on his beautiful Maiden speech on the contribution of the first term. What has also remained with me is that our esteemed former colleague André Bosman was in the President's Lodge at the time. I think I'm allowed here to tell you that you're childhood friends. By the way, I would have allowed you to be in that beautiful business together. But I liked being there when you took over the stick so nicely. Again, congratulations. Mr. Chairman. We both thank colleagues for their first-term input and the attention they have paid to our legislative proposal. I would also like to thank them for the generally positive basic attitude which I have had the opportunity to taste with almost all those present in relation to the law. Of course, a number of solid questions have also been asked; we will try to answer them as best we can. We were extremely grateful for the kind words that have also been expressed towards our indispensable support. Of course, Mrs Maatoug and I are very much in favour of this. Without our support, the cogs will lie still here. I would also like to express our thanks for both the departmental assistance provided by the Ministry of Social Affairs and for the support we have received from the Bureau of Legislation. Mr. Chairman. So we are standing here with a bill that we have been working on for a number of years. In the meantime, the Economic and Social Council has also delivered a positive opinion on this. We have, of course, listened very carefully to that opinion. We have taken this advice fully into account and we will now try to answer all the questions together. In addition, we have a number of cubes. I'll do three blocks myself. In the first block, I discuss the cause of the initiative law and the importance of working at home. In the second block, I explain why you should actually regulate that in the law; is that really necessary? I also discuss the response of the Council of State and what has been said about this by the advisory body on the review of the regulatory burden. Mrs Maatoug will also comment on the impact of the regulatory burden on the evaluation. So we are saving the best for the last time, I say to Mr Simons. He has asked a lot of questions about this. My third block is about how things work in practice. How does that application work? What is the assessment criterion for the employer? I will also talk about social cohesion and vulnerable groups. That will be the end of my contribution and answer. Senna Maatoug will then be talking about the impact on working conditions where a great deal of attention was rightly paid to employee control, homework compensation, the right to inaccessibility, questions asked by Mrs Kathmann, border workers, gender effects and the evaluation at the end. That's our division. Mr. Chairman. My first block is about the cause of the law and working at home. I think Corona has shown us that we can do more than we thought in that area. For the corona crisis, only 30% of workers worked on an occasional basis at home, and only 6% did so in full. It turned out that at many times we are much more capable of doing so. The cause was a sad one. The fact that people sometimes had to work at home all week, week in, week out, was of course not what many employees wanted either. But it has shown that Zoom and Teams have really become a standard part of our vocabulary. Mr. Chairman. That is why, as initiators, I would also like to mention Mr Smeulders van GroenLinks, who was there at the time, said: that is something we must support with a law. In fact, we were in the process of working flexiblely, which already exists. When that law was dealt with a decade or so ago, I think that many of us should be honest: I myself did that myself wondering: can you make the same rules as for adjusting working time and working time? The developments of the last ten years, and the corona crisis in particular, have shown that much more is possible than we thought at the time. This also makes us feel a bit like the successors to that part of the law. This was also an initiative by Mr Eddy van Hijum of the CDA, which allowed me to work on another initiative law with great pleasure. Mr. Chairman. In the letter in response to the ESC opinion on hybrid works, the Minister also describes a second development which, as far as I am concerned, is very relevant to this legislative proposal. She writes that the working culture is changing at all. We go to a culture that is less focused on presence and more on output, on what you produce, and on working on the basis of confidence that your employee will also be fully committed. I think the bill that Mrs Maatoug and I are defending today fits in with that spirit. Mr. Chairman. We see, now that Corona is in another phase, that the profits we have made in working at home are also not self-evident. It is again busy on the street in rush hour, in traffic jams and in the train. We really think that this law can help to support that transition to hybrid work, to work more at home. At the same time, we do not deny that it can also be the other way around. That's why the bill doesn't cover working wherever you want for nothing. Because as well as there are employees who would like to work at home, we also want to ensure that an employee can get into the rifle if, for example, he would have to work at home for five days from the boss. We have included this balance in this bill. Mr. Chairman. What are the advantages of hybrid works as we as initiators see it? As far as we are concerned, these are for employees, for employers and for society. Research shows, for example, that one day of working at home for almost half of Dutch workers could have a welfare increase effect. Employees then indicate that they are better able to combine work and private life, for example by saving on travel time. It's also emancipating that you don't have to go to the office every day because that's how it's decorated. If you can do your job from home, why couldn't you? PwC has done research that these soft effects are also expressed in money: 1.5 billion. But apart from the amount, I think it is a way for many employees to continue to do the job better, healthier, fitter and with more pleasure. That brings me to a point that Mrs Palland asked about. She wondered whether allowing employers to work at home in a tight labour market could not even be a way to bind staff to you. I think that can be absolutely the case. I think that if you keep employees happy and meet their wishes, they'd also like to work for you and that if they work with you, they'd also like to stay with you. So we support this link with the shortage of the labour market. I think there is also an advantage for employers; that is also important. There was, of course, some cold feet at first. But if, for example, employees are more satisfied and able to be more productive, it is also in the interests of the employer. I think a happy employee leads to a better employee, including for the employer. It can thus also lead to an increase in labour productivity. If I'm just trying to figure out for myself whether you'd rather finish a product in a busy office garden or at home, I think it could be good for productivity as well. This has also been the subject of numerical research. The Central Planbureau even comes to a productivity gain of €1.26 per hour. Of course, all these numbers have bandwidths, but the basic idea seems to me that allowing hybrid work and matching the wishes of workers where that can not always be done is not always possible; we come back to that in detail also for employers can be profit. Finally, fewer traffic jams for society, fewer travel movements, fewer emissions. Also, sums have been made about this: a day's work at home for half the working population would lead to more than 400 million kilos less CO emissions, because there is less travel and because there is also less need to heat offices. There, too, there are all kinds of social benefits from traffic jams that you avoid and a decreasing number of road accidents. But those benefits for employees, employers and society do not come naturally. That is also what the Plan Bureau for the Environment in the research says, and I also read this in the SER opinion. If we want to hold on to what we have achieved and if we want to fit in well with the wishes of employees, a law can help. That's not magic; let me say that. We don't say everyone has to work at home. Nor do we say that it can be done everywhere, but we support this law. In addition, it will always be customization. Mr. Chairman. Which brings me to the second block: why do you have to regulate it legally? 'Cause you could say this is where employee and employer come out together, right? I think there are two reasons why it is important to make a law. The first reason is: if there is one lesson that we draw from the Law working flexibly, it is that having a clear legal framework leads to a better conversation between employee and employer, to fewer conflicts and thus also to a better outcome and to tailor-made work. The second reason is that we do believe that the legal position of the employee should be strengthened. Right now, as an employer, you have to talk if an employee wants to, so if the employee wants to talk to you as an employer about working more at home or working more at the office. That's what the Law says about flexible working. But you can simply reject that without any justification. As we understand, Elon Musk might think this is a good idea at Tesla, but we do not think this is a good idea. We also find ourselves really supported by the Economic and Social Committee opinion and, by the way, by the letter of the Minister which we regard as supportive. The norm with the law means that you have to back this up. I think that having that law helps, not because it replaces that good conversation between employee and employer, but because it makes that conversation easier. This means that you also give protection to the employee: if the employer is really unreasonable and does not respond, you have a legal path. He's not here right now. Now you don't have a leg to stand on when the employer says, "Sorry, I don't believe in working at home." I mentioned Elon Musk. We therefore also believe that, from the advantages that this has for both employees and employers and society, it is good to anchor this legally well. We have been working on this law for a few years; that is the law that is before us today. Mr. Chairman. In this context, Mrs Palland asked for the opinion of the ATR. Those had about that version of the law that was the version before we had adapted it after the ESC opinion......................................................................................................................................................................................... The first was: don't do the law, but make an information campaign about the importance. We fully agree, of course, that it is good to highlight the importance and benefits of working at home and hybrid work for all parties, employers, workers and society. In fact, I hope that if this law is adopted in both chambers, employers and employees will also be properly informed about the new rights and the profits that can be achieved, as is the case with many other legislative proposals by the Cabinet. I have to think about the Cradle, which has also been explained in detail. However, we do not believe that such an information campaign is a substitute for having the law, and we feel that it is really supported by both the outcome of the review of the Law working flexibly, which shows that such a legal basis can help to conduct that good conversation, as well as the practical knowledge of the Economic and Social Council, in which employers and trade unions have said together: we understand that a legal basis, which also provides a better balance between employer and employee, can contribute. And, of course, you have to carry out an information campaign and make sure that people know that the law is there and that employers are also well informed, but that does not replace a clear legal framework as far as we are concerned. In this context, Mr Van Kent also asked about the added value of such a public campaign as a complement to the Own-initiative Act. That is indeed more how we see it: not in the place of the law, but precisely to ensure that the law is also known and that there can also be acted on what the law is and what it is not. Which brings me to the third and last block.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-tweedekamer-31.u4	I see Mr De Jong slowly coming out of the starting blocks.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-tweedekamer-31.u5	Let's kick it off. I sat down a few times and I thought, "Well, I'm gonna give him a hard time." But let's just keep it together. I wonder if we have also looked closely at, for example, family businesses, small businesses that are really dependent on their own people, when it comes to corporate culture and coherence within the organisation. Do the initiators not agree with me that additional administrative burdens can also be very serious? How did the initiators assess this with regard to the legislative proposal before us?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-tweedekamer-31.u6	Thank you. It's a lot of questions. I am going to try to answer them all, but if I forget one, Mr De Jong can come back to that. He's not going anywhere. That's how I know him. Perhaps I should mention a few points on this. For starters, there's a threshold in the law. For the smallest companies, the legal framework does not apply, as in the Working Flexible Act when it comes to adjusting working hours or working hours. So that's the first guarantee. The second one's next. You ask, of course, whether this leads to considerable administrative burdens, but it does indeed mean that an employer cannot simply say no any more. In that sense, it can therefore have a material impact on a company. But I also think that many employers are increasingly seeing that there are also profit points, in a tight labour market. The third answer would be that we have actually changed something about the law; I will come up with more in a moment. That is in the criterion for the employer, in the bar. I go so far as to focus on social cohesion, so I think I can keep it until then. In the end, however, we have opted for a slightly different framework of consideration than working time and working time, precisely in order to do justice to social cohesion, for example. 'Cause I get that point. We only think that the position of the worker when it comes to the place where you work is so different from that of working time and working time and that it is actually so weak that it is wise to strengthen it. We were also very encouraged by the fact that the employers' organizations are also in the Netherlands with SMEs and the Economic and Social Council have said: if you want to change that criterion of the review, then you have our full support for the law. So in that sense, I am actually experiencing the support of the employers, and therefore of the entrepreneurs, in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-tweedekamer-31.u7	I have a big concern anyway. I have great appreciation for the initiators, for the hard work they have done and for what is ahead. I can only see at the same time that a lot is already happening in companies and also how much trouble they often have to find staff and focus on keeping the organisation going. If there is an additional administrative burden, then that can also cause unrest within these organisations. This is also something that can be seen and felt as a duty, as something organisations should do. They are also pushed against the wall a little bit, in the sense of: it seems like I don't want people working at home but it just doesn't work in my organization. Can the initiators indicate how they have taken this into account in the drafting of this bill? How did they ensure that these smaller organisations also have an advantage over what is now in store?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-tweedekamer-31.u8	I think we've secured that in three ways. The first is that there's a threshold in it. This framework applies from 10 employees. That's the first guarantee. The second guarantee lies in the choice of "reasonable and equitable" rather than "heavy business interest." I have a rather comprehensive argument for that in a moment. The third is that we have been very consciously waiting for the ESC opinion to take account of employers' concerns. I heard their concerns, too. They say they understand the direction. They also say: it is very often good in the conversation, but what exactly are you going to legally regulate and is this workable for me? That is why I have been waiting for the ESC opinion. Their suggestion to amend the legal provision, which in their view makes it more resilient for the employer, we have therefore also taken over. Mr De Jong talked about administrative burdens. I do not now have the impression that this law leads to more administrative burdens. The law does mean that if you want to reject something as an employer, you have to argue it. This is something that I hope will often happen in a regular relationship between employers and employees, but it is not to be underestimated why the ESC says to us: we understand that you want to regulate this more legally. Then we get a better conversation, whereas the employee's control is now relatively weak compared to that of the employer. Also during Corona and even with the homework advice, Mrs Maatoug's inbox was quite full of people's messages, which I think Mr De Jong and I could reasonably say "they can also work part at home" but even then, with that homework advice, they got nothing at all from their boss without that being really substantiated.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-tweedekamer-31.u9	Thank you very much for the answer. I have another question. The initiators have indicated: if you let more people work at home, that has an effect on the traffic jams. There'll be fewer traffic jams. It all has advantages, seen from the initiators. Is there any mention of the loss that is taking place? I am referring, for example, to suppliers, for example those from the catering industry who supply businesses and may have to do less, or smaller organisations that work at larger companies and have less sales because more people work at home. Is that included in the proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-tweedekamer-31.u10	I understand this question very well. We didn't do our own studies. The studies I just mentioned are studies by others, from the Central Planning Bureau, the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau, Ernst & Young. Let me make Mr De Jong's question specific. For the record: I don't think the whole of the Netherlands is going to work at home for five days a week, but maybe people are a little less at the office. Mr De Jong is right that the cafeteria turnover could then decrease slightly. We've seen that to an extreme extent in corona time. I think that very often there are other things about this, namely people who eat more at home or who perhaps go somewhere to get a sandwich in the afternoon. Workers still have to eat, only they do so in another place. Those shifts are there. I didn't figure it out. When it comes to social costs, if I may call it that, the risk to me is not so much in this, although this will be a shift I will not run away from, but I do not expect things to be radically different tomorrow as in working conditions. We need to take care of it. If Mr. De Jong asks me "where are the risks?', To be honest, that would be my answer. I also want to prevent an employer from saying: well, that's cheap; so we can save money in the office, so you're all only going to work at home for five days. That's why we added that point in the law: that you can also tell your boss that you want to come to the office more often a day because it suits you better.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-tweedekamer-31.u11	Okay. We are going to the third part of Mr Van Weyenberg's reply, the practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-tweedekamer-31.u12	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Among other things, Mrs Kröger asked: you have to justify such a request, but what should such a request look like and does this not create a new threshold? Now I am going to formulate something more legal; that is always important with this kind of thing, because the discussion is also part of the legal history. The manner in which a request is made shall be formally free of form. The current law, the Work Flexible Act, does not impose any requirements on how to make that request. We, too, do not do that in this initiative law. So it's shape-free. The evaluation of the Working Flexible Act shows that requests are made in writing as often as orally. So there is not really a threshold experienced. This is demonstrated by the review of the Act of 2021. What does change, however, is the assessment measure, the way in which the employer has to check. I will explain this by briefly describing the procedure as it currently exists and then explaining how it is changing. Right now, that's how it is. The worker shall make an application, orally or in writing, for the adaptation of the work place. The employer must consult with the employee on that request. This is so in the current Law flexible working. He must then consider the request and consult again with the employee if he wishes to reject the request. The employer is, in principle, completely free to reject the proposal, as I said, in the current situation, with the Working Flexible Act. This consultation is therefore already an integral part of the current law and remains so in our own initiative law. But the difference is that soon the employer will have much less room to reject the request. The procedure is therefore the same, but the review framework changes by strengthening the employee's position. That is why I hope to be able to remove Mrs Kröger's concern: there is no additional threshold; even more, we are lowering the threshold in that sense. Not the worker's threshold for submitting the application is raised, but the employer's threshold for rejecting the application. The employer must therefore make a balance of interests. In the original initiative proposal, we said that you can only say no to a major business interest, as is the case with working hours and working hours, so the number of hours you work and on which part of the day you work. That is what we have changed. Mr Simons asked for in his speech; Mrs Van Beuker also asked for it by means of the criterion of reasonableness and fairness. I would like to go into that in detail, because that is indeed the core of the test that we are introducing with this legislative proposal. We take them over from the Economic and Social Council, because trade unions and employers said that the place where you work is a little more complicated and slightly different from, for example, the length of your work. It has more impact, perhaps also on the organisation of the work by the employer. Therefore, according to the ESC, a different criterion was applied, namely the criterion of reasonable and equitable employment law, which is often a central concept in private law. In practice, the general principle is that the parties must behave reasonably, in accordance with accepted standards, as they are called legally. That's an open standard. In the event of a conflict, it is then up to the court to weigh all the facts and circumstances in that particular case and make a judgment. There are many judgments in which reasonableness and fairness are further elaborated. The specific circumstances of the individual case are then always leading. In this context, Mr Simons of the VVD Group asked for a number of examples. Let me mention two. You always have to be a little careful with casuism, because every example I mention here, of course, doesn't do justice to what's going on... but let me mention two. The pleading was based on a serious business interest. In the case of clearly localized work, therefore, a major business interest will soon arise. We believe that with our adaptation of the law to reasonableness and fairness, this will often be the same when the work is really very place-bound. Let me give you an example. For a nurse in a hospital a lot of work is probably place-bound; by the way, not everything, but I will come back to that, also in response to questions from a number of other Members. An example I give myself with some regularity is about a construction company. I think we understand that the person who builds at the company should be in the place where the house is being built. But for colleagues in the planning department it will probably be much more possible to work one or two or three days at home. So it really depends on the nature of the work. So we do not categorically exclude certain functions. I think it's really important to say that. It will always have to prove in practice whether something can be done if an employee is in need of it. That is very often not a "all or nothing" question, is our conviction. With the current law, the employer must always look at it in reasonable and equitable terms. And yes, that is indeed Mr De Jong is right in saying that a higher threshold than now, because now he can simply reject it. That is simply true, but I also think that a lot of employers want to look at it with this open mind. Where this does not happen, our law then gives the employee a support in the back and also a stronger position. I think you'll see in practice that it doesn't happen so often that someone says, "Let me work at home all week." In fact, a lot of people who had to work at home during the corona period missed contact with their colleagues and would have liked to go to the office for a few days. Now, at this stage, they say: but I don't want to go back five days. I think that's exactly the customization of the good conversation. Our law, with a clear framework and a strengthened position for the employee, nevertheless, as far as I am concerned, the two key elements of the legislative proposal can help. I also see this in the opinion of the ESC, which says that it is important to strike a good balance between control and customisation and to encourage consultation in order to make joint agreements. That is exactly what we hope to do with the legal framework of this law. Then hybrid works can take into account all considerations and interests, of the employee and of the employer. There are many questions about social cohesion that may be important in this respect, and I shall come back to them in this way: the well-being and personal situation of the worker, the cooperation within teams, which is important for the workers but of course also for the employer, and possibly very heavy financial or administrative burdens for the employer. Mr De Jong and Mr Simons asked about the administrative burden. These are relevant facts which must all be taken into account in the consideration of what is reasonable and fair. Of course, the overwhelming majority will never reach the judge; that's just where you're gonna come out well. Also because the employee knows that this law is prone to him and there is also a clearer framework.Of course, there will also be case law.You will see that the conversation is getting going better. By the way, the subjects I have just mentioned are not exhaustive. There may also be other elements in a positive or negative sense. Ultimo is then up to the judge to judge. In this context, I would like to stress once again that we do not exclude whole categories of workers. Mr Simons, Mr De Jong, Mrs Kathmann and Mrs Palland asked how we deal with branches and professions that can't work at home. Can this not even lead to polarization between groups? With this law, therefore, we do not categorically say that nothing can be done. I would never even chisel that in marble, because what may not be possible now may be possible with technology in five years' time. In fact, I think that has always been the case in recent years. I think there are a lot of people who think that contact with their colleagues is very important, including physically. We think you'll come out with this law every time an employee says he'd like to see what he can do. That is what we hope: what can be of the employee's wish, in a way that is workable and remains for the employer? In fact, I think that an employer with an employee who can save a lot of travel time in that way also has a real interest. Those productivity studies we have not done ourselves show that there are real benefits here. Fortunately, more and more employers also see that. See also the proceeds of the ESC. Social cohesion is indeed a very important touchstone. We have also made it explicit in our amendment of the law. We think it's important to do it right. Mr Simons and Mr De Jong asked for this. Mr Van Kent asked about the risk of uniformity, for example, if you were working at home all the time. We're not naive when it comes to just benefits. You also need a number of things to make sure it goes well in practice. For example, in the internet consultation, a number of respondents indicated that social cohesion in the workplace could be put under pressure. They were concerned about this: some of the workers are always present and the other part is not at all. Their fear was that you couldn't grasp that theme under a weighty corporate interest. This was one of the important reasons for us to give this social cohesion a place in our law, to appoint it and to adopt the opinion of the Economic and Social Council. We as initiators understand the inconvenience about what you could no longer do with "heavy business interest." That's why we took over. The ESC therefore says: "In the end, an organisation remains "a community of workers in which it is of both individual and collective interest that contact between themselves is sufficiently possible, and work contributes to social cohesion." We believe that precisely the combination of place- and time-independent work and the possibility of meeting at the company location ensure that you can continue to ensure social cohesion for the individual, the team and the organisation. The test we have now taken does not allow you to say 'no' to everything under the guise of social cohesion, but does give the employer the room to say: yes, but one or two days a week I would like you all to join the team.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-tweedekamer-31.u13	Mr Van Kent will be here for a while. Mr. Van Kent.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-tweedekamer-31.u14	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm very much looking for those safeguards. It was about a safe workplace at home, about loneliness, about things like that. For example, let's take someone who works in a call center with a zero-hour contract. There is no organised workplace within that company, so no active union and no active works council. The employer therefore has a weak position vis-à-vis the employer, and the employer thinks it wise, on the basis of cost savings, to require the employee to work at home for five days. What are the guarantees that this worker can defend himself against this? If loneliness threatens or if the home job is not suitable, how can the person concerned come to the defence against the employer's request?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-tweedekamer-31.u15	Very specific questions were asked about how to deal with employers' requests. That is actually what Mr Van Kent is asking for. Let me deal with that now. By the way, we cannot require an employer to open an office. That's not in this law. Let me give you an example. I work for Mr. Van Kent, and my contract says I have to work four days a week at home and get one day at the office. Let us assume that: Mr Van Kent also has an office. That does not seem to me to be a good thing: it makes me very unhappy. This isn't right for me. Then, with this law in my hand, I can report to Mr Van Kent and say, "Dear Mr Van Kent, dear Bart, I can't do this, I'd like to go to the office more often." I'm worried about my mental health. Then the bar is really high for Mr Van Kent to say 'no' to that. Then it must be reasonable and fair not to honor my request.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-tweedekamer-31.u16	In my example, Mr Van Weyenberg would have a zero-hour contract, and I could easily find another employee, even though that is a very different story at this time. Then you are not in a position to make demands with the employer. At least you will be weak in relation to your employer. Suppose the employer says, based on cost savings, "I'm ordering you to work at home," what's the alternative, if the employee says, "I don't want that, I want you to organise an office for me?" If the employer says "for you another, because it costs me money if I have to organize an office," to what extent are there guarantees? To what extent does this bill weaken the position of that employee in that case?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-tweedekamer-31.u17	Anything Mr Van Kent now says the employer can do, I think, can do now. What this law strengthens is that as an employee you can report to your employer and say: I want to go to the office more or I want to work more at home. The employer can reject this less easily than he can now. In this sense, it strengthens the position of the employee. But Mr Van Kent is right to make the point that the extent to which people can redeem their rights depends on their contract. I'll get right on that. Mr Van Kent has also asked a very precise question about this. I'll answer that in a moment, but I don't see this law at all as a weakening. In fact, the legal basis to say that you want a different division between home and office than now is reinforced for the employee. Of course, one employee is better able to redeem that right than the other.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-tweedekamer-31.u18	Mr Van Kent, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-tweedekamer-31.u19	Yeah, finally. Is it correct that this law does not extend the possibilities for the employer to require an employee to work at home?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-tweedekamer-31.u20	You ask the question very precisely. Yeah, you're right. That's not gonna happen. Why is that? This law does not regulate what the employer does. The only thing this law provides for is what you can ask your employer as an employee. If things happen that you fear, then the employee now has a stronger position than before this law to say, for example, that he does want to increase the number of hours in the office. But this law doesn't see what an employer does. Suppose you have a contract with me. I signed it with you because I didn't have much else. That contract says I have to work at home for four days, but I don't really want to. I'll check in with you. My position to report to the employer is now strengthened. That changes the law. The employer is not given any tools to send employees home.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-tweedekamer-31.u21	You said that you also came back to some of Mr Van Kent's questions. I thought I'd let you finish until you're at the end of the first part.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-tweedekamer-31.u22	I'm almost there, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-tweedekamer-31.u23	Very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-tweedekamer-31.u24	Mr Simons asked: is the balance between employer and employee sufficiently secure with this law? Is the employer's position sufficiently secure? Mrs Kathmann asked: will the initiative with this change lie more with the employer? That question is somewhat along the lines of Mr Van Kent's. The ESC opinion states that we need to review the legal frameworks. That's what employers think. A good balance of hybrid work within organisations is obvious. That's exactly the recalibratement of this law. We therefore ensure that such a request of the employee is assessed by the measure of reasonableness and fairness. That is what we consider to be the right balance of the ESC. It's a little different from our original law. This is due, for example, to social cohesion. Because we attach great importance to the fact that employers' and employees' organisations support this change in the employment relationship, we have accepted this. The employee must therefore properly motivate it. Ultimately, the term "reasonability and fairness" is an open criterion. That's what I said before. Mr Van Kent and Mrs Van Beucker asked: can an employee always refuse an employer's request to work at home? That's what I just said. This law is specific when you report as an employee. The employer can, of course, suggest that the employee works from home, but has no specific legal basis to demand this. That is a more precise answer to what Mr Van Kent just asked. There are already one-sided change clauses, all of which have nothing to do with this law, but there are all kinds of legal conditions. You always have to act like a good employer. For all these things, we don't regulate them in this law. Those are all things that are already like this. When can that happen? Let me give you an example. Let's say that an employer is right to say that you're all going to work at home for a while, because the office is being remodeled this week. That is not quite the type of example Mr Van Kent is concerned about. All these things do not change the initiative law. If I have a contract of employment with Mr Van Kent stating that I can only go to the office one day a week and have to work four days at home, then I can tell the employer that I want to change that. The employer may refuse to do so only if it is reasonable and fair. That's what this initiative law regulates. Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Kent and Mrs Kathmann asked about flex workers. How can they make use of this law? I'm gonna give you the legal answer first. Then I'm going to put it in a broader labour market context. This is also about the end of my contribution. It depends very much on which type of flex worker it is. In their contributions, Mrs Kathmann and Mr Van Kent referred to callers, temporary workers and self-employed persons. Let's walk it by. Yeah, I think that's good. Self-employed persons who work on assignment cannot claim this law. There must be a contract of employment. This law deals with employees. Self-employed persons do not have a contract of employment, so other provisions apply. You'll meet him as azzp'er if you accept an assignment. Callers can make a request. They're employees. For temporary workers, it's a more complex battle. They do have an employment relationship, but with their formal employer, the sender. However, they actually do the work for the benefit of another party, the user. Under the law, the temporary worker must make the request to the formal employer, i.e. the sender. The employer has a temporary employment contract with the user, so the formal employer must take account of the agreements made when broadcasting. For an ongoing loan, where this is already settled, your position is less strong. This really is a complex route, because your formal employer is not the place where you work. Mrs Kathmann said that workers with a flex contract or with less paid work have less control over their work and may be afraid of: three others for me. I think that was also decided in Mr Van Kent's question. Both points to an important point. This law strengthens the legal position. Their legal status has also been strengthened for them. Underlying is the reality that we also see in call contracts, as Mr Van Kent knows even better than I do that real implementation of your legal law is more difficult in a labour market if you have an insecure contract. I don't think this law is gonna solve that. It strengthens your legal position, but this is, in our view, an additional support for the Minister's mandate to really do something about this division in the labour market in line with the advice of the Borstlap Committee and the opinions of the Economic and Social Council. In corona time we also saw this. It was legally regulated, but because of the weak labour market position people could not cash in on their rights. That is a great appeal to all of us. This law strengthens the legal basis, but if we do not do something about this division, then it remains a problem, not only here, but on many other aspects of labour law, as Mr Van Kent also knows. Mr Van Kent, Mr De Jong and Mr Palland asked: you have amended that law with that letter of amendment, but can you just do that? So we have included a broader criterion. We believe that it is justified to do so and that we did not have to go back to the Council of State. We have a few reasons for that. The first is that we are here adjusting the rejection criterion from "heavy" to "reasonable and equitable." The core of the law, the legal framework that strengthens the employee's position, stands right up. The purpose of the law is thus also right up. In fact, the opinion of the Economic and Social Council supports the purpose of the legislative proposal. Then what checks do you have that it's going to be careful? Let me mention a few. I have Mrs Maatoug very high, but of course we have been given extensive support by the experts of the Ministry, by the lawyers of the D66 Group, through the indispensable Bureau of Legislation that also helps us when we make amendments here, to ensure that it is legally sound. The second reason why I think it is sensible and responsible is that of course we have joined the advice of the ESC. If there are people somewhere who know how this works out in practice, it is the lawyers of employers' and employees' organisations in the ESC. The biggest risk if you change laws too quickly is that you lose sight of the practice. Well, if it was sitting here somewhere at the table, then it was the people who gave us this text in the opinion of the Economic and Social Council. In doing so, we are confident that this is a careful and precise formulation which is very workable in practice. That brings me to the end of my reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-tweedekamer-31.u25	I have a question about that last argument. If the ESC advises anything, that is no reason not to submit the law resulting from it to the Council of State. The letter of amendment submitted is, however, a proper amendment of the law. The touchstone on which people can claim the right to work at home is fundamentally adapted. The argument "the ESC has advised it, so there is no need to get an opinion from the Council of State" is a bit weird.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-tweedekamer-31.u26	Laws are often amended here by amendment or by letter of amendment. I can recently recall an initiative proposal by two of our fellow party members on the waterboards. There have been significant changes during treatment. My point is that we didn't change the whole law here. We've changed the key criterion. It's a meaningful adjustment I'm not running away from at all, but it's an adjustment we're making at the request of practice and then tested by ourselves. I also saw that, in response to the ESC opinion, the Minister did not say: something very strange is happening there. So many different eyes have looked at it. In the past, we have not gone back to the Council of State in legal adjustments. If we had changed this law to the "Come to the office more often," you would have had a point, but I believe that we will remain in the spirit and purpose of the law. When I look at how this is often done in this house, I sincerely say that we have not chosen a new opinion from the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-tweedekamer-31.u27	In conclusion, Mr Van Kent.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-tweedekamer-31.u28	It is not that I do not trust the ESC or the expertise or that I doubt the legal sustainability of this law. I referred to the argument: the ESC has advised something, so that Council of State is in principle not necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-tweedekamer-31.u29	But then I have to say it more precisely. This liberal always likes to hear from the Socialist Party that he relies too much on the polder. That's how things can change. I wanted to point out that we did not go ice in one night.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-tweedekamer-31.u30	But has the initiator considered, for example, asking the Council of State for an emergency opinion? It was also part of the treatment. Several parties have asked: "Oh, why didn't you do that? It's a fundamental change, isn't it? Has it been considered asking for an emergency opinion?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-tweedekamer-31.u31	In fact, we have tried once before in this legal process to seek an urgent opinion which the Council of State did not agree to at the time. We were disappointed at that at the time, but that was also well substantiated. When we made this amendment, we did not consider going back to the Council of State, because we felt that the purpose and direction of the law were right. We are changing the wording of a piece of legislation here. We also use a widely used article of law: reasonable and fair. That's not new in private law. It's been used before. Nor was the Council of State's criticism of the original legislative proposal. That was much more... do you have to make a law? All these things together have led us to the conclusion that we should not seek another opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-tweedekamer-31.u32	It's in his head that it's a big change for the Chamber after all. It even looked like he'd changed completely. The change was as long as the original initiative. I can imagine that the Council of State could take a different view on this, because it is a fundamental change. But the initiator says: we have sufficient confidence in it; we have seen no reason to put it further before the Council of State. That is a choice of the initiators, but it was part of the first-term deliberations.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-tweedekamer-31.u33	Sure. The questions asked by the Council of State in connection with the draft bill for the letter of amendment were inter alia about usefulness and necessity. We have adapted the criterion to do justice to a search from practice. The direction of the law is still standing. There is also an ESC opinion. I think that's relevant, too. That's urgent. We think it is important to make meters with it now, especially at the stage we are now in with corona. Of course, you can always ask the Council of State for advice again. Of course, Mr De Jong is right about that, but I have seen a lot of very far-reaching notes of change from the cabinet side and from initiators where that has not been done anymore. Since we are adding a criterion already known in private law, I still think that this is a valid change.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-tweedekamer-31.u34	At this point, however, I should like to say a few words. I hear the initiators say that they have changed the criterion, also on the basis of what the ESC has recommended. I understand. I certainly welcome that. Before that, the Council of State was so critical that they said: we have a number of objections and advise not to submit the proposal to the House of Representatives for further consideration. Now I hear the initiator marginalize it by saying: we have only adjusted the basis; now through. The reaction of the initiators at the time to the Council of State was: it is perhaps all desirable to wait for the ESC and so on, but above all we see extra urgency; we need to do this now. Now I've got a bit of a rush. The ESC opinion is here. You have listened to this, which I welcome, and now you say: go on! Then comes the question I asked in the first term: why the rush? The practice shows that we must be careful and that a movement has already begun. This discussion in the workplace is ongoing, including through the ESC. The conversation between the parties is ongoing. Are you in a hurry?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-tweedekamer-31.u35	Politicians are always in a hurry, because we all have beliefs that we fight for. That's how I know Mrs. Palland. I'm gonna try to be very precise. The Council of State's reaction was not so much about the design of the criterion, but about whether you want to regulate it legally. We said at the time: we want to regulate it legally. So we didn't follow the Council of State in that. But the question was not: did we use the wrong criterion? The criterion is right. It was about the question: do you need a law at this stage? That was the main point, and I respect that. In the fact that we want to settle something legally, I feel supported by a lot of research and by the ESC, which says: we need to make this balance better, including in labour law. That is the essence of the ESC opinion. They only say: if the initiators want to do so, then we think it wise that they adjust the test. That's a meaningful adjustment, all in the spirit of the purpose of the law. We did. The point of the Economic and Social Council was about the review criterion. They support the fact that there will be a law. They had a very different point from the Council of State. We have adapted this point by adjusting the review criterion, in line with the opinion of the Economic and Social Council. Mrs Palland is quite right that we first tried to deal with this law in much more haste. We thought that was wise in the middle of corona, but we failed at that time. When the Council of State's emergency opinion did not come, we chose to wait for the ESC at some point. It is up to the Council of State to accept that request or not. Let me be open about it: with the knowledge of today, I am glad that we have been waiting for the ESC, because I think that has made this law better. So were we in a hurry? Yes, but we have also taken care and made the adjustments that have been made to us.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-tweedekamer-31.u36	Thank you. I call Mrs Maatoug, the co-initiator of this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-tweedekamer-31.u37	You're giving me a very brief estimate, Mr. Chairman. The chair may be a little higher. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Like my colleague Mr Van Weyenberg, I begin by thanking the people behind me, for the official support from the Ministry, for the Bureau of Legislation, and by this I repeat Mr Van Weyenberg, and to a number of people who preceded me: Mr Smeulders, who started this initiative proposal with Mr Van Weyenberg, but also our predecessors Ineke van Gent and Linda Voortman, who, like Mr Van Hijum in 2012, started in a distant past with what was then called Flexible Works. I like to start from this, because that shows that hopefully beautiful changes have many fathers and mothers, that change sometimes goes very slowly and that it is good to give credit to what is not visible. You're gonna need that soil. Secondly, before I answer the questions, I would like to say that I am very pleased that Mr Simons' maiden speech is about our law. I would like to thank you for having us there. I would like to congratulate you once again, because it was a wonderful story. My compliments on that. The last thing I want to say is about the opinion of the ESC, because we have already talked about it so much. I brought the advice. I know some of my colleagues were at the briefing. That was really nice. Mr. Chairman. Then there's the paperwork. The colleague called it "blocks," but I think that's a bit of an allergy word. I call it 'themes', which are: occupational health, employee control, homework compensation, the right to inaccessibility, cross-border workers, gender impact and evaluation. I will try to say as clearly as possible whose question I answer, so that it goes well in your administration. Today's personal test is whether I speak slower on this side of the Chamber than on the other side, but you can judge it at the end. Mr. Chairman. This brings me straight to the first question I am going to answer, by Mr Kröger van GroenLinks. She asked: how does the right to work at home work work? The answer to this is that the labour law also applies to the home workplace. As we know, the labour law also applies to this. For things like a good chair and a good desk, the employer is simply responsible. The costs to be incurred must not be borne by the employee. There are a number of exceptions, however, it is okay to name them for a while, but they have to do with, for example, the layout of an office building, which is not a home job. Then you have to think about the amount of toilets and the size of workspaces. The next question is from Mr Kathmann, who is not here today, and is about RI&E, the risk inventory and assessment. The question was: how do we look at that and how do we ensure that more companies get such a RI&E? I am very glad that this was taken into account in the treatment. It is, of course, a broader issue. We know that in committee, apart from working at home. It is true that too few employers still have a RI&E. It goes a little beyond the scope of this legislative proposal, but I fully agree with Mr Kathmann that we need to work to ensure that more employers draw up a RI&E. This can be achieved by maintaining it well on the one hand, and on the other hand by helping employers to draw up example-RI&Es. If it is right, homework will automatically become more part of the RI&Es, because if there is a lot of work at home in a company, then the company will also have to pay attention to it in its RI&E. Mr Van Kent of the SP asked how we reduce the risk of unification. Of course, there has already been a change of plans. Here I refer again to the SER-report Hybrid works. In its opinion, the ESC also makes it very clear that it is always about finding the right balance. It is difficult to speak of a good balance in general. That varies from one individual to another. So what's good for one isn't for the other. Mr Van Weyenberg said that just as well: for one it is very nice because your home situation, for example, is one without roommates or partner, so it is very important that you can go to the office, and for the other it may be the other way around. So there is no golden rule for what that balance is. It is therefore up to the employer and employee jointly to shape that balance sheet. The ESC also provides a number of starting points that can be helpful in that discussion. Think, for example, of social cohesion and the health and well-being of the worker. The employer has the responsibility to identify those risks and to include measures in them. All this needs to take shape in those Rl&Es I was just talking about. At the beginning of 2021, my predecessor Paul Smeulders........................................................................................................................................................ As a result, we now have the websites slimwerkgeven.nl and hoewerkerknederland.nl, with information, tools and tips about homework for employers and workers. Another question from Mr Van Kent was about how we see communication, precisely because people do not always know their rights. I think this is a very right, but also a very important point. We see in broad social security and on too many subjects, I sigh for a moment, but this is my other role, that workers do not always know what their rights are and therefore cannot claim them. The provision of information is very essential in this, as Mr Van Weyenberg just pointed out. The ESC also recommends a broad information campaign on hybrid works. We understand that the cabinet is working on this. We think that's a very good plan. Then I would like to take advantage of this stage to say how important it is to make it easy to obtain workers' rights, including on all these issues in the input of Mr Van Kent and in the debate on the interruption. Those rights only mean something if you can claim them. Then there is a question from colleague Kathmann. She asked whether this change would make the initiative more attractive to employers. I think it is important to make this very clear; the rest, too, but also this one. This law means that the employee has more control over his or her workplace. With this change of law, the initiative is therefore more likely to lie with the employee. Previously, an employer was obliged to consider an application for adaptation of the workplace, but could reject it without motivation, as Mr Van Weyenberg has just explained. This law allows an employer to reject this request only if there are reasonable and fair grounds for doing so. That means more control for the employee. This law means that the employee has more control over his or her workplace. This not only means that an employee can work more at home, but it can also mean that an employee can apply to work more at the office. If at present there are employees who are allowed by the employer to work in the office only one day a week, then this law allows the employee to submit a request to work more in the office. It should be noted, however, that this law cannot force an employer to open an office at all, as Mr Van Weyenberg clearly said. An employee may apply to work in a workplace, but that workplace must of course be there, as is also included in the further report. The employer remains responsible for the organisation of work. Which brings me to the theme of homework. Mr. Kathmann asked... they were long questions. Let's see. She asked if the initiators agree that the current homework allowance is sufficient. Currently, an employer can provide a maximum of €2 per day free of charge for homework. This amount shall be indexed annually using the table adjustment factor, taking into account inflation. In addition, there is the unpaid travel allowance. The unpaid homework allowance is based on calculations by the Nibud. We'll get back to the ESC and the advice. The Economic and Social Committee points out that the cost of working at home has increased considerably over the past period, partly because employees also incur other costs, such as for faster Internet connection, which is very important nowadays. The Economic and Social Committee recommends that the homework exemption be evaluated and, in particular, that the exemption take sufficient account of the actual practice of hybrid works. As I understand from the cabinet, the periodic review of this scheme will examine whether the flat rate is still in line with the average real costs incurred by employees in practice. We, as proposers, agree that it is important to keep a close eye on this, as the ESC has also pointed out. Then there's the right to inaccessibility. Colleagues Kröger van GroenLinks and Kathmann van de PvdA asked how this relates to this bill. You won't be surprised that we share the opinion of GroenLinks and the PvdA. I am sure that more work at home can also lead to a blur of work and private life and that it is therefore important to be inaccessible from time to time. Both GroenLinks and I would like to add my neighbour's party, Mr D66, has the right to be inaccessible in the election programme. It must be said, however, that the right to inaccessibility is not only linked to this law as far as we are concerned. The right to inaccessibility is independent of whether you work at home or at the office and is also a subject that needs to be considered separately. Even if people work in the office all day and do not choose to work at home, it can be very valuable to have that right of inaccessibility. Then you get to the subject, the law we're dealing with today. Despite our proposals, it is completely separate from the subject of the right to inaccessibility. I would like to say in private or as a GroenLinks chamber member that I look forward to doing that treatment. I also wish all groups a great deal of wisdom when it comes to acquiring and deepening this matter. I am also looking forward to that debate, but that is not what we are talking about today. Then border workers. They are also an important subject. Mr Van Beuker and Mrs Palland asked about this. How does the situation of border workers relate to this bill? The worker may be socially insured in the State of residence rather than in the State of employment by the adaptation of the work place to the place of residence. This impact may also occur in taxation. As a result, the worker may also be taxed in the State of residence for the remuneration earned by him or her in the territory of his or her Member State of residence. This may mean that the employer must comply with the payroll tax and/or social security legislation of the employee's State of residence. At the time of Corona, the Netherlands made agreements with neighbouring countries Belgium and Germany. This was also mentioned by colleagues in our first term. These agreements have been made so that working from home does not lead to unintended effects in tax and social contributions. However, it is not possible for the initiators to resolve this problem by law. This has to be settled through the Treaty. However, we share the concerns of the Chamber. For this reason, we would like to call on the Cabinet to permanently amend the rules in the Treaty so that people working full-time can work at home at least two days a week without this leading to consequences for tax and social contributions. Mrs Palland's question was also addressed to the Minister, so we are also looking forward to that part of the answer. Then we are on the subject of gender effects. Mr Van Beuker of D66 had asked a question about this. I am very pleased that Mrs Van Beuker has drawn attention to this. I would like to refer again to the opinion on the Economic and Social Committee. There is certainly a risk that women and mothers who already tend to take on more care tasks will do more if they have more opportunities to work at home. However, the SER states that the corona pandemic was an exceptional circumstance, which does not necessarily constitute a prediction for the future. There is still a need for further research into this. We think it is right to check whether there are indeed different effects on different genders. We have therefore included in the evaluation clause that gender impact should also be evaluated. Mr. Chairman. Which brings me to the evaluation with the most natural bridge. This is my last page, too. Unless it goes so far with the interruptions, we may be at the end of this side of the answer. Mr Palland of the CDA asked about the evaluation. She asked why it comes after three years and why a reflection test after a year has not been chosen. That was the question. We are not indifferent to a reflection test after a year, but the question is whether you can say enough about the functioning of the law. It still needs to develop. This applies specifically to practice and case law. Our estimate is that a year will not be enough to test it properly. It needs a slightly longer lead time. That is why we thought it better to do the evaluation earlier, so not after the regular five years, but already after three years. That is what we have done.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-tweedekamer-31.u38	Mrs Palland has a question about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-tweedekamer-31.u39	I would like to take the opportunity to ask Mrs Maatoug a question. I read in the documents that there was just a reference to a recommendation to take a reflection test after a year. I get that too, because then you can feel a little... That's not a whole evaluation, because we're always getting something. By default, we'll do it after five years. But why not follow that recommendation after one year of trials and reflection and then do the usual evaluation after five years?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-tweedekamer-31.u40	Thank you for that question. That's what he's in for. That's why we think employees and employers are gonna make deals with each other in the first year. You're gonna test it. There's gonna be case law. That year will be over very quickly. So the consideration is: do you do an early reflection and then a late evaluation? We have opted in the middle of this by saying: we are doing this evaluation early, because we think that this case law and its impact in practice are very important to take with us when we look at how things are going in practice. A year is really too short for that, even for that moment of reflection. That brings me to the last question, namely Mr Simons' question as to whether the evaluation also looks at the qualitative administrative burden. I do not know how to make it up to you, because it was so well announced by Mr Van Weyenberg. What we have included in the letter of amendment, but I am sure Mr Simons has seen this through you, Mr President, is a non-limitative list. The qualitative administrative burden is certainly something that should be taken into account. So that is a valuable addition to the evaluation, I say for the report. I am therefore looking at the Minister, because we think it is very good if it is taken into account. That brings me to the end of my reply, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-tweedekamer-31.u41	Thank you very much. Then the Minister has the floor in her role as adviser to the initiators.... and the Chamber, the Registrar says to me. Then I try to put it so precisely, and then I'm not doing it exactly right! The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-tweedekamer-31.u42	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We are, of course, living in a time of change in our society. That was already the case for corona. In addition, you can see that there are different services and other ways of working. There's more networking. With that you really look at a new way of working, the future of work. This new work translates into more hybrid works and more homework. It also translates into a different way of directing and directing, much more focused on outcome than on input, more focused on the quality of work than on the hours you are in the office. Mr Van Weyenberg already referred to this. That development has actually accelerated due to corona time. Then you see that those changes, which may have been somewhat larger at first in a number of leading companies than elsewhere, are now widespread in society. It is also good news that hybrid works are becoming more and more part of our working culture. This means that for many people hybrid work has become a matter of course. This is why the previous cabinet asked the ESC for an opinion on the future of hybrid works. We received it on March 31st. A few weeks ago, we also sent you our cabinet response. The cabinet agrees with the ESC's view of the initiative legislative proposal. Promoting the dialogue between employer and employee about the workplace and making appropriate arrangements to take account of specific circumstances is essential. A better balance in the control of employer and employee is desirable. I would also like to express my appreciation for the initiators, Mr Van Weyenberg and Mrs Maatoug, who have also taken the ESC opinion to heart and have adapted the ground for refusal of important business or service interests in a view based on reasonableness and fairness. In my view, this proposal for an initiative will lead to a greater balance in the control of the employer and the employee over the choice of the job. Both parties shall, if necessary, enter into discussions with each other in order to reach a decision on the basis of reasonableness and fairness. This strengthens the influence of the worker, simply because the employer can no longer refuse a request for a change to the job without good reason. The legislative proposal may also contribute to a greater understanding between employer and employee of the application and its decision. Social cohesion within a company How do we keep employees involved in the company and together and how do they exchange ideas? It is typical of such an aspect that the conversation should take place in the workplace. The hybrid works and the question on which days and which hours of presence is desired are exactly the points on which such a conversation should be about. This also applies to the follow-up of any advice to work at home, should this be necessary again. The employer will no longer be able to ignore such advice and must justify why such advice might not apply to all his employees. That too leads to a good discussion and this bill facilitates that. That is why the cabinet is very much in favour of this initiative proposal. It is a legislative proposal that is needed and that is precisely at the right time ensuring a better conversation on the workplace between employer and employee. The cabinet is working on the various recommendations of the ESC to support employers and employees in further shaping hybrid work in the future. My predecessor, Mr Koolmees, promised to increase awareness of the law and the opportunities it creates for employees and employers in the presentation of the report on the review of the Work Act in 2021. Through the chairman, I say to Mr Van Kent and to the initiator, Mr Van Weyenberg, that we now honour that commitment. That moment in 2021 was not a good time because of the corona time, but if you and after you of course the First Chamber work the Law where you want to adopt it, that seems to me a good time to realize that commitment and indeed to raise awareness of all these possibilities for hybrid work. This was also the answer to a number of questions, not all of which were put by Mrs Palland. With regard to border workers, Mrs Palland asked whether this legislative proposal would provide for additional administrative burdens and how this initiative bill would apply to border workers. As you know, on the basis of new European agreements for the next six months until 1 January 2023, employers and employees will not have to take homework into account for determining where they are socially insured. We've been rolling through the existing corona measures for six months. We've tried very hard to do that, too. I agree with Mrs Palland that we need to move towards a more structural solution. In the coming six months, therefore, the aim is to give workers, employers and implementing bodies the opportunity to prepare themselves for the situation after 1 January 2023. Together with a number of colleagues in Europe, I am keen to have a solution for the longer period before that date. For this we are also in rather intensive contact with the European Commissioner Nicolas Schmit. My aim, the purpose of this cabinet, is that homework will be less easy to change from the applicable social security legislation of the state of employment to the state of residence, because such a shift from the state of employment to the state of residence naturally leads employers to pay contributions in another Member State and to have to deal with other laws and regulations. Then employers' burdens can change. These can be higher or lower depending on the individual situation; you don't know that. But at least it will lead to an increase in administrative burdens. To what extent does the present initiative proposal contribute to this, there is no need to specify in advance. This depends, of course, on the extent to which recourse to the Working Law where you want leads to additional cases where there is a shift from the country of work to the country of residence. It is all the more important that we arrange, for the longer term, that it is indeed much easier to work in another country in Europe if you live in one country. Also for the border workers themselves, insurance in the country of residence can be both positive and negative for the net wage and for the way in which you are insured for unemployment, disability, sickness and pension. In order to remove all these uncertainties and uncertainties, I will send you a letter with Secretary of State Van Rij shortly with an update on the Dutch commitment to workers' homework. Because there is, of course, a difference between the social and the fiscal aspects. Mrs Van Beuker also asked a number of questions about this during the first period. In addition, Mrs Van Beuker has asked whether requests for an extension of hours within the current legal framework are often rejected. This is about hours of expansion, very important in these times of tightness. That question was thus taken into account in the review of the Flexible Working Act just before corona in 2020. This showed that 44% of requests for an increase in hours were fully met, 44% were partially met and 8% were not met. At 3%, no decision had yet been taken. The most-mentioned reasons for rejecting a request for an extension of hours were that there was insufficient human resources, that the formation space was not available, or that there was insufficient supply of work. I therefore suspect that such a request at this time, if there were sufficient supply of work and there would be places of formation, would be accepted. That's an assumption, but I think you can conclude from that. Moreover, those reasons of that time typically fall within the main business or service interest. In comparison, 59% of requests for fewer hours of work were accepted in full and 23% were partially accepted. This seems to be a little more positive, but at the same time 18% was not accepted at all. Then I guess if you weigh it on the hand, you can conclude that requests for hours increase are just as seriously assessed as requests for hours decrease. I think that we also conclude that requests for hours to be extended are not less likely in advance. Furthermore, Mrs Van Beuker asked how we could prevent employers from over-infringing the privacy of employees with, for example, supervisory software. First of all, employers are not allowed to monitor or control employees without good reason. I do not think that this is desirable or necessary, as a kind of principle. Moreover, there is already a premise that employees working at home would be less productive and that you should check them better. Mr Van Weyenberg mentioned the CPB; the productivity of people working at home is higher. I don't know if that's true of us here tonight. Anyway... okay, no jokes. The chairman looks at me so hard.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-tweedekamer-31.u43	Continue quietly.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-tweedekamer-31.u44	Wake up again.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-tweedekamer-31.u45	I always look hard. That's kind of my job.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-tweedekamer-31.u46	Of course, there is no need to use things as personnel tracking systems. That could be an undesirable breach of privacy. Therefore, strict conditions are also included in the GDPR and in the GDPR Implementing Act. Then it doesn't matter whether that work takes place at home or at the workplace. The rules on worker control are similar in both cases. If an employee suspects that the digital check or other check is not in accordance with the applicable conditions, he may, of course, talk to his employer about this. If that does not work, he can talk to the works council, to a trusted person, or he can, of course, report to the AP. Then you're a lot further, I guess. I have just indicated that I will raise awareness of the possibilities offered by the Law for flexible working for employees. I would also like to take this point with me. What are the rules on worker control? What can the employee do if things don't go well? We all know the example that when you call a call center a band says "this conversation can be recorded for quality purposes." That seems very clear to me. However, if every conversation is recorded for quality purposes you obviously have another situation. So that seems to me to be a typical example that we can take into account in this broader announcement. Finally, Mrs Van Beuker asked whether I would be prepared to take into account the effects on traffic congestion in the evaluation of the implementation of the law. Yes, I think it is a good suggestion and it certainly seems possible to me when it comes to requests to work at home in a general sense. Whether you can link that one-on-one, I don't know, but the moment there's more work at home or at other hours, you might think that's going to have an effect on traffic. Then it is not only about less days of work but also about 10:00 a.m. instead of 8:30 a.m., so first start at home and then go to the office. It'll all help. This ultimately depends on the functioning of the law in practice. I think I've run out of answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-tweedekamer-31.u47	Very good. I don't see anyone getting up.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-tweedekamer-31.u48	I'll check what else was said in the first term. I agree with the proposers on the reflection test and the early evaluation versus the mid-early evaluation. I wholeheartedly support the call for border workers. We're working very hard on it, too. The right to inaccessibility will certainly come back a lot more times and also has to do with the psychosocial burden on people. It's also a broader discussion that doesn't just have to do with work, when I look at my own teenage daughters. You must know the famous Look Up Movement. That's about not looking down on the screen all day long, but we all need to get more off the screens. The homework allowance is indeed included in the evaluation of the flat rate. I think Mr Van Weyenberg has just given a comprehensive answer to the questions on the evaluation of the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-tweedekamer-31.u49	Thank you very much to the Minister in her role as advisor to the Chamber. Is there a need for a second term, at all? It's not mandatory. Mrs Kröger, you have the floor. She will speak on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-tweedekamer-31.u50	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A short second term. Thank you very much for your answer. I think important things have been mentioned. The right to work at home or the right to work wherever you want, to put it more precisely, is a very nice addition to ensure that people can shape their working lives as much as possible and as well as possible. As I said in the first term, I am also here as spokesman for Climate and as spokesman for Energy. Of course, there is a lot going on in the world, also in terms of energy crisis. An important goal that we will have to have is to really save a lot of energy. In view of the climate, nitrogen and the energy crisis, working at home and reducing transport movements play an important role. We've seen that before at corona, but we're actually seeing that again. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the current energy crisis makes saving of fuels particularly urgent;]] [[noting that working at home reduces travel and thus saves energy;]] [[calls on the Government to examine whether and how home working can be made even more financially attractive, with concrete measures such as effective premiums, tax reductions or charges,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kröger.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35714-17]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-tweedekamer-31.u51	I'll close with that. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-tweedekamer-31.u52	Thank you very much. I call Mr Simons. He will speak on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-tweedekamer-31.u53	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the authors for the answer, which gave a great deal of clarity. The only question that remains for our group concerns usefulness and necessity. We understand the SER advice and we think the Minister's appreciation is very good, but one of my questions was: could we monitor this for another two years, look at it, and then, if necessary, come to the adoption of legislation? For the rest, thank you for the Minister's commitment to make it widely known to employers and employees. We had a motion on this, but we will not table it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-tweedekamer-31.u54	Thank you. You follow up on the opinions of Mr Van der Staaij cum suis. Mr Van Kent, on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-tweedekamer-31.u55	I would nevertheless like to thank the authors for the answers they have given. I would also like to stress that for a lot of people working at home is simply not possible. Also, it is not always possible to work at home due to, for example, the rising energy bill, the absence of a workspace or personal circumstances. However, it is important for the group for which it is possible that we organise and arrange this. Therefore, support for this law from the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-tweedekamer-31.u56	Thank you. I call Mrs Van Beuker-Huijbregts. She will speak on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-tweedekamer-31.u57	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thanks to the authors, the minister and the support, also from SZW. If you get so many beautiful answers, promises and promises, the motions will indeed remain on the table. We were able to vote again for a very long time this afternoon, so I am not going to table any motions that are then taken over or unnecessary. I would just like to stress that I would like to express my sincere thanks to Minister Van Gennip, who has done such an incredible job for the border workers in the region. She has also just indicated how she and her colleague from Finance will continue to do so in the near future. I welcome the commitment to monitor and evaluate this. I'm actually... that's how I started my input in the first term and that's how I want to end this input. As a mother I found it extremely pleasant that I did have the opportunity to work from home. I agree with what Mr Van Kent said. For those for whom this is not yet possible, I hope that there may be a possibility. We will also always have professions and functions in which it will not be possible. I regret that in that sense for those people, but I think we are going to take a very good step here to make that choice for the people who want to have that choice. I would therefore like to thank the authors once again. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-tweedekamer-31.u58	Thank you. I call Mrs Palland. She will speak on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-tweedekamer-31.u59	Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank the initiators and the cabinet for their reactions. I also started my first term by referring to the initiative of GroenLinks and the CDA ten years ago to give employees the opportunity to telework, as we mentioned at the time. I learned tonight that we are now in a look-up movement era. I wasn't quite aware of that yet, but I sometimes recognize it in my own attitude, so to speak, sometimes I have to look up more. I think that's good anyway. I welcome the changes made by the initiators during the legislative process. We attach importance to the polder and the ESC opinion. Reasonability and fairness, who can oppose that, you might say. So I would also like to put this to my group with a positive basic attitude. Perhaps one last point on the border workers. I appreciate all the efforts on the cabinet side. I know that's being worked on very hard. The question was, of course, also about the administrative burden. In my view, the point now is that there are more opportunities for employees to talk about it with the employer. This brings the legislator who also employs international people, sometimes into a more difficult situation, because it has to make choices because it is not yet structurally well secured. This is not due to the initiative of the initiators. It is actually only an encouragement to regulate this issue in a structured manner. So let us continue and continue the good work in that regard. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-tweedekamer-31.u60	Thank you. I call Mr De Jong. He will speak on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-tweedekamer-31.u61	Mr President, thank you very much. Thank you very much to the initiators of the proposal. I would also like to thank the Minister for his reply and the opinion. We really believe that this is something between employer and employee and that it is already very well arranged in many places. If it is not properly arranged in places, the employee must take the lead in order to do something about it. In a tight labour market, workers also have a better position. My concern is not that this bill is so very important that it is going to solve problems that I do not see at all at the moment. If things don't go well in places, employees have to deal with the employer. If not, there are plenty of other opportunities in a tight labour market. I also feel that employers are now listening to employees much more than they have ever done. Having said that, I would like to thank the initiators very much, but when it comes to support, I do not expect it next week. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-tweedekamer-31.u62	Thank you very much. Then we will be on the side of the Chamber at the end of the second term. A single question has been asked to the authors, but it is about usefulness and necessity. We're not going to answer that again from the start, because we've been working on that all night. I give the floor to Mr Van Weyenberg. One motion has also been tabled, on which the Minister can give an immediate opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-tweedekamer-31.u63	Thank you, Mr President. I have, of course, listened to Mr De Jong with tears in my eyes, because we have done our very best. So forgive me for a brief last attempt. Mr De Jong says that he thinks that a lot of employers will be willing to do so, because it is a tight labour market. Of course, I hope he's right about that. But employers' organisations also point out that it can help to better regulate this in the law, precisely for that good conversation. The tension that Mr De Jong feels, I respect his opinion, I do not really see it, or I do not see it, because employers also say that they support that framework and that stronger position of the employee. Mr De Jong says that there is now a tight labour market. That's true, but we're making laws here for the longer term. The labour market could be different in ten years, right? So we try to make such a law so that it is separate from a situation of cramped or very broad labour market. Mr President, I will keep trying.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-tweedekamer-31.u64	I understand, too. I am sure you will agree with me through the chairman. The point is that I do not want us to find ourselves in a position in which there is some kind of mistrust towards employers when it simply fails to organise workplaces at home. Mr Van Kent has indicated that there are many places where it simply cannot be done. I do not want anything rushed through the Chamber now, because I get that feeling because of something that we think is now a problem, but which I see is not such a big problem in practice. The shortage in the labour market is precisely helping to give workers the position they deserve. If the position of employees is not properly guaranteed in the future, then we need to look at what is needed at that time. But right now, I just don't see it. I hope the initiator respects that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-tweedekamer-31.u65	Mr. Chairman. I have to deal with Mr De Jong's judgment. What he's going to detach from me with his group in complete autonomy... I'm extremely aware of that, and that's how it's supposed to be. However, I note that employers say that they like this, because this helps them to have that good conversation. We have tried to do them justice in the law, including by adopting the opinion that a review criterion should be workable for employers. That really makes us think that this can contribute. And yes, unfortunately, we are still receiving examples of employers who do not want to enter into this conversation. So, with the current law, you are just powerless apart from this initiative law. Then you can't have a reasonable conversation. You can't go to court because you have no right. That's what changes this law. Mr President, you will notice that I am trying to convince Mr De Jong until the last second. That is the way it should be in a debate; that is why we are all here. Mr. Chairman. I wholeheartedly endorse Mrs Van Beuker's and Mrs Palland's call for border workers. The Minister has really taken steps there. I don't think anyone's questioning that intention. We have written before that we would have liked to have included this in our own initiative law, but it cannot be done there. We have every confidence that the Cabinet will do everything in its power. Experience so far has shown that too. Mr Van Kent rightly said that not everyone can work at home at any time or to the extent that he or she would like to. That's true, of course. I also speak to many people who do not need it at all. They say: I went to work in a service sector because I really like being talking to people all day, and I don't have to think about sitting behind a computer, let alone sitting behind a computer at home. So it's very different. We have also really added the importance of social cohesion to the law. It also fits the criterion, because it is not desirable to create an unjustified image. As far as I am concerned, we have a task in the country at all to appreciate the old blue-collar work, the crafts, more. I saw a wonderful ad from the construction companies, who said: could you send your children to the Construction Day? 'Cause we really need people. We need to get rid of the image that works with your hands is something you don't want for your child. It's a great job. There's a hell of a good sandwich to earn and it's hugely socially relevant. The last thing we want is a kind of white-collar blue-collar contrast. Social cohesion also helps to have that good conversation in the company. Finally, Mr Simons asked if we could have waited another two years and then introduced the law. This legal treatment has been going on for a little longer than two years, so we have already waited to do so. In sincerity: we wanted this to be done on the second that we came out of the corona regime of homework advice. We're really afraid of the human reflex, though. I think we all recognize it. We see that happening here and there. We know how to secure part of the profits. It's just super crowded everywhere on the road again. We see employers again who don't want to. We find it a shame to wait two years. Of course, anything is possible, but we also feel supported by the wishes of both employers and employees. The Minister said it, too. "This is the moment," said the Minister. I'll recognize that. This is the right time, as she literally said, to do this legal anchoring. It is good workable and ensures that the good conversation gets started. I would find two years' waiting a shame, especially if employers and employees say: give us that legal clarity, then we can have the conversation properly, and strengthen the position of employees. If employers' organisations call on us to do so by law now, I hope we will do so with each other. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-tweedekamer-31.u66	Thank you very much. Then the Minister has the floor. There's been one motion filed.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-tweedekamer-31.u67	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thanks also from me to the proposers and the support. You have made an important law, and also a beautiful law. Maybe it's good to repeat that. I got an app to congratulate you on, but it seems a little early. I think we should hold off on that until then. It's a beautiful law. I say it to Mr Van Weyenberg in the direction of Mr Simons: this is the moment. There's so much going on in the world of work. That was already the case for corona and that was accelerated by corona. This is the time to strengthen the conversation, so that it is really conducted on the work floor. That's something you need to manage. A number of companies are already doing very well. A number of companies may have a bit of a twist on that. This is the way to do it. It brings a nice balance of a few days working at home and a few days working at the office. It also ensures social cohesion, a good balance between work and private life and a more limited journey time. I would say: do your best, because then I can congratulate these two people next week. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll go to the motion, the only motion. Of course, she gets judgment, Room. We will certainly investigate this. There may be more possible than many people think. I think we should include that in the announcement. All kinds of homework allowances are available. If I read the motion quickly, it seems as if it is thought that there is not that much yet. However, there can be more than a lot of people thinking. That's what made me think, let's take this with us in the wider disclosure of what's possible. But the motion in part No. 17 gets judgment, Chamber. Then you had a few comments. We'll keep talking about border workers. It won't always be easy. It already takes quite a lot of effort to get a six-month roll-through. This will also be the case in the case of a new structural scheme. So I'm asking you to keep us sharp. We also pay tribute to those who started teleworking here ten years ago. It's nice that word comes back. That's when it started, of course. That's what I wanted to say. I say to Mrs Palland and Mrs Van Beuker that the border workers will continue to come back. We'll keep doing our best for that. I think this is the time to go to work wherever we want.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-tweedekamer-31.u68	Thank you very much to the Minister for her advice to the Chamber. Thank you very much to the initiators of this law for their defense and response. Oh, Mr. De Jong is still walking to the interrupting microphone. I was just closing up.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-tweedekamer-31.u69	If it's really the Law working where you want, I'd like to work at the Tower, but I don't know if that...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-tweedekamer-31.u70	I'm sure you'll be invited, knowing the Prime Minister. I would like to thank the initiators very much. I would like to thank their support in particular. We all know that they have done the job. These are Mrs Agnes Maassen, Mr Koen Sijtsema and Mrs Meike Hellevoort.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-tweedekamer-31.u71	The vote is scheduled for next Tuesday.
