ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-23.u1	The next item is the two-minute debate. 222). A warm word of welcome to the Minister of Health, Welfare and Sport. I'm glad you're back with us. We have ten participants on the side of the Chamber. Because it is a two-minute debate, everyone has two minutes' speaking time. The first speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mrs Piri of the Labour Party. The floor is up to her.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-23.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I apologize that my colleague Attje Kuik can't be here. Of course, she would also have preferred a wide-ranging debate. The starting point for the PvdA is: the best birth care for mother and child. It takes everyone, from the gynecologist to the obstetrician. Experiments have been carried out with full funding, but we do not see sufficient results in terms of quality improvement and we see a great deal of discontent in the field. Then there is the choice: permeate or a pass on the spot. Then we choose a step in the right direction because we think it is important that the parties come out together. Mr. Chairman. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considers that pregnant women deserve the best care, and this care can only be provided through good cooperation between all parties, from gynecologists and obstetricians to maternity care;]] [[noting that full funding results in considerable resistance from birth care parties and thus makes it more difficult to improve cooperation between birth care parties;]] [[noting that the qualitative added value of full funding of birth care in a five-year experiment has not been sufficiently demonstrated;]] [[noting that cooperation between CSVs can also be improved within the multidisciplinary funding;]] [[calls on the Government to resume talks with all parties involved in the birth care to arrive at a joint route plan for future funding based on the shared principles of the Common Eye pathway and not to give an indication to the NZa to include full funding in regular funding as of 1 January 2023,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Piri, Mr Kuik and Mr Van der Plas.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32279-224]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-23.u3	The motion was co-signed by the spokesperson of my group, Mrs Kuik.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-23.u4	Thank you. A brief question from Mrs Tielen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-23.u5	I actually hear Mrs Piri say, "If you do what you did, you get what you got." She also says, "Let's talk to the field again." But if I understood correctly, there are reports on the quality of care. I am quite right to refer to Mrs Piri as the first recital in her motion. But why does Mrs Piri expect this to make a difference if we go round the table again? So we've been working on this for five years, or longer, to ensure that this cooperation is secured.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-23.u6	The challenge is, of course, that Mrs Piri is also the spokesman for her group's foreign affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-23.u7	But she's still gonna come up with a sharp answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-23.u8	Sure. What we see, at least, is that this raises very great resistance. For that good care, you'll eventually need all those parties. We see that this will not be the case now. That is why we are not in favour of perseverance, as I said in my statement, but rather of a pass. I see that this raises another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-23.u9	In any case, I would like to express my appreciation for Mrs Piri. She just stands here and speaks on behalf of her party. I am of a different opinion, but you will hear that in my contribution. In any case, I would like to thank Mrs Piri for the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-23.u10	I will listen with great interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-23.u11	Thank you. The next speaker is Mrs Agema from the Group of the Party for Freedom.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-23.u12	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We have a novelty here today: today we are tabling motions for a debate that we are going to have tomorrow. Anyway, of course, we're always in a hurry here in this house. I understand that RIVM has concluded that this integral birth benefit does not lead to the desired quality improvement. Of course, that's a shame. But it seems that this integral birth benefit is going to express the self-employed obstetricians in the course of time. That would be very unfortunate. As far as I am concerned, therefore, the two-track policy chosen deserves to be strengthened. That's why I'm filing the next two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that the chosen two-track policy in birth care does not lead to an uneven playing field,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that the chosen two-track policy in birth care does not lead to an extinction policy of self-absorbing practices,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Agema.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32279-225]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Agema.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32279-226]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-23.u13	By that unequal playing field, I mean that I hear from the field that obstetricians who are members of an IGO also benefit financially. That shouldn't be allowed. Then you do not have a level playing field when it comes to the two-track policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-23.u14	Thank you. Then there is Mrs Bikker, from the Christian Union Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-23.u15	Thank you, Mr President. For the Christian Union, birth care, good birth care, is a very big good. The work of obstetricians and maternity caregivers, at night and at night, by weather and wind, I can even say it from my own experience.... is simply indispensable and so much worth to every mother and I actually think for every baby that is born. The funding of the birth care gives rise to a lot of unrest. But let's keep on showing that the goals of obstetricians and the NZa match. These are: birth care, where possible just outside the hospital, and as little unnecessary intervention as possible when giving birth. The Minister now proposes a two-track policy that leaves room for both multidisciplinary funding and full funding. The Christian Union supports this two-track approach. Many obstetricians, despite this adjustment, are concerned that the full funding will nevertheless become the prevailing model and the self-employed midwife will push away. The Minister states that the NZa will develop additional guarantees on full funding and that he will have RIVM and the NZa monitor developments. I would like to ask him what guarantees the Minister has in mind. And what means does the Minister have to send health insurers and hospitals? In other words, how does he guarantee freedom of choice and easy-to-access care? And how does he keep his finger on the wrist so we can see that in time? The Minister wants to focus on further development of the multidisciplinary funding through client profiles and the strengthening of Obstetric Partnerships, VSV's for the connoisseurs. Does the Minister intend to commit himself as much to the development of multidisciplinary funding as to the regulation of full funding? How does he see that? Finally, Mr President. The Group of the Christian Union sees the great value of first-class obstetricians with their practice in the neighbourhood or in the village, of the role they have in the easy-threshold accompanying of women before, during and after childbirth. It is precisely the many women who are so close to receiving appropriate care and all those midwifes who work for it 24/7 with heart and soul that have to keep the experience, or get it again, that we are working together for that good, close-to-birth care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-23.u16	Thank you. Then Mrs Tielen from the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-23.u17	Mr. Chairman. I don't know if it only applies to mothers, but the tendency is of course to tell from your personal experience when it comes to mother-and-child care. But it's a two-minute debate, so I'm not gonna do any of that. That the importance of good mother-and-child care is at the top of the agenda and that scientific input is very important for that, albeit. I think there have been reports and consultations. There has also been a pilot, which is now going to be converted into support funding through two tracks. I support the Minister's line, but I would like to say a few words about it, precisely because the resistance in the field is so great. There is a fear that the profession will disappear and that there will be no equivalence. I don't feel that fear, because I believe in the professional emancipation of the midwife. I believe that it is precisely this professional emancipation that will benefit from interdisciplinary cooperation, so that we can see how, from the first and the second lines, we can further improve that mother and child care. I can tell stories from practice about that too, but I won't do that now. I actually wanted to use this two-minute debate to call on both professional groups to stay in conversation and see how this professional autonomy, domain delineation and cooperation will continue to improve mother-and-child care further. The question to the Minister is then how he can facilitate that conversation to remain open, professional and focused on the future. So far.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-23.u18	In health care, of course, it is the case that who pays also often determines. I think there's one of the most important concerns there with obstetricians. The concern is that if they were to become dependent on, for example, a large hospital for their funding, they would fear for their independence and for their position and their place in the neighborhood and in the neighborhood. Does Mrs Tielen understand the concern that if the money no longer reaches them directly, then that makes them afraid of losing their position?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-23.u19	I get that. I know the expression 'who pays, determines', although I find it not always everywhere in the care, but that aside. But when you ask the gynecologists and the hospitals, they don't always say, "We want to pull it up and we're gonna push you out." There too, there is a professional commitment to ensure that this interdisciplinary collaboration around the patient also works. Many patients prefer to experience the whole process primarily from the home situation. I hear what Mr. Hijink is saying and it's not rational either. But when I hear the stories both from obstetricians who are very satisfied about this and from the profession in hospitals, I feel that fear a little less.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-23.u20	Okay, that's great. The next speaker is Mr Goudswaard of the JA group21.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-23.u21	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We shall table a motion as a group. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there is still a great deal of scepticism and doubt among primary obstetricians in particular about the development of adequate funding for birth care;]] [[Considering that constructive cooperation on integrated birth care benefits from a means of financing which all parties can agree with;]] [[calls on the Cabinet to address the concerns by ensuring that the additional guarantees promised in relation to the funding are actually achieved and to inform the Chamber before Princess Day;]] [[invites the Cabinet to implement the improvement of the position of first-class obstetricians by strengthening their regional cooperation and involving the KNOV,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Gold Sword.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32279-227]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-23.u22	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In the end, this debate on birth care concerns the quality of care and the freedom of choice of women. That has everything to do with the level playing field that Mrs Agema was talking about. I understand the obstetricians' concern about that level playing field. That is why I have a question for the Minister first of all: how is it ensured that midwifes and caregivers also have and retain sufficient control and control? I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that different advice on birth care shows that care providers need to work better together to improve the quality of care;]] [[calls on the Government to make additional arrangements with the various birth care stakeholders with the aim of improving cooperation, increasing quality of care, paying more attention to prevention, organising care in the right place and distributing scarce capacity properly,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas in an Integral Birth Care Organisation there must be sufficient care provision from all different disciplines to be truly integral;]] [[considers that all parties should have and maintain an equivalent position;]] [[Calls on the Government to establish a hand-in-hand hand-in-hand approach to the design of an IGA which includes basic principles on how to agree on an IGA which also ensures cooperation with and equivalence between other birth care providers in the region for the provision of comprehensive birth care,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ellemeet.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32279-228]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Ellemeet, Mr Hijink and Mr Paulusma.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32279-229]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-23.u23	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-23.u24	Then there is Mrs van der Plas, from the BBB Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-23.u25	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Welcome to the people in the bleachers, who I sometimes suspect are obstetricians today. Mr. Chairman. I am concerned about the consequences of the full funding of birth care as presented today. The written consultation we have had has not removed these concerns. According to the Minister, there's not much going on. After all, there will be a two-track policy and multidisciplinary funding will continue to exist. But I fear that there will be a dominant position here for hospitals and health insurance companies and that the self-employed midwife will indeed suffer. The Minister talks about monitoring and safeguards in his answers, but I do not see how the Minister wants to ensure that there will be no lack of power. For example, if a hospital only wants to work with an obstetrician practice within an IGO, then an obstetrician practice that wants to operate independently has to check it out, doesn't it? Can the Minister explain to me how this midwife practice can then maintain its independence within that field of work? Mr. Chairman. Nor has the usefulness of full funding become clear to me. If several parties work together, then the money has to be split left or right. Only, it happens later in the process. Are there any concrete examples of cases where only full funding offered a solution? The way I see it, the added value is in integral working within an IGO, but that is independent of its funding. Mr. Chairman. I really want to keep us from losing primary care in the neighborhoods. The responses from the field of work are significant. There is great division and great doubt. It seems to me that the Minister is making a pass and listening to the field of work. To what extent has this already happened in this case? Last week the Court of Auditors indicated that the gap between paper and reality is widening. This subject is a good example of this. The Minister seems to want to push through something that is not widely supported. I'd like to hear the Minister on this. Finally, if Mrs Piri could, I would like to co-sign the motion she has just tabled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-23.u26	Thank you. Then Mrs Paulusma, from the group of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-23.u27	Thank you, Mr President. My group, the D66 group, also has the right care in the right place. Cooperation has a major role to play in this, so we can follow the Minister's proposal. But we are also in favour of Mrs Ellemeet's motion, because we too hear signals from the field and want it to be properly arranged. Collaboration ultimately benefits mother and child, even when it comes to the right care in the right place. Mr. Chairman. However, I would like to make use of this moment and to devote some of my speaking time to this. Unfortunately, the fact that cooperation is not going well has become exemplary in recent months. Field parties are opposed to each other. This causes great unrest, especially with future parents. I would therefore like to take advantage of my time to make the following call to obstetricians, gynecologists and everyone else in birth care. Please find each other. Find the connection, because that's what parents and their future children really need.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-23.u28	Thank you. Mr Hijink, from the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-23.u29	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I think that everyone in our country who has had to deal with birth care, the midwifery care, knows how important it is that care is available in their own neighborhood nearby. We all know those teams that just work really well. We have built a system in our country that we can be proud of, I think. Midwifery care is organized close to people and we should keep it that way. I agree with everyone who has just said that there are very serious concerns about this cooperation. Is it true that those obstetricians who can still work independently can do so in the future? I understand, and I share those concerns. I believe that the Minister should meet them, for example because there is a fear that, in the future, large hospitals will decide who will and who will not be able to provide care. We really shouldn't go that way. The Minister now chooses to ride two tracks. I find that complicated, but well, we should see what happens. Me, the SP Group, is about protecting the position of the self-employed obstetricians. We must not let this happen, whatever we have seen in other areas of care, that the very big boys, the big hospitals, are going to decide where and where care should not be provided. That's what we stand for. That is why we will support all the proposals that will and will continue to strengthen the position of the midwife.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-23.u30	One brief question from Mrs Tielen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-23.u31	That's a nice speech. Thank you to Mr. Hijink for speaking with so much praise and pride about that part of our concern. The SP does not always do that, but I think it is quite right that this should be discussed here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-23.u32	What the hell kind of weirdo is this? What exactly are you trying to say?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-23.u33	You can answer this, but we'll move on quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-23.u34	What I'm saying, I'm trying to say. We often have debates in this Chamber about how bad it is, that there is degradation, and I know it all. Mr Hijink clearly states that it is fine, that it is fantastic and that the Netherlands can be proud of it. I like that. I just wanted to make a point of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-23.u35	I'm never too bad to collect compliments, but I thought it was a bit of a strange compliment, in the sense that the SP is always very proud of all the caregivers who do that important work for us day in, day out, whether they're general practitioners, obstetricians or nurses, in the care of the elderly, disability care, everywhere... That we think very differently about the organization of our care system, is crystal clear. But that doesn't change our appreciation for all those people who do that important work. In that sense, therefore, I take that as a sneak, because we criticize very often, but our criticism always focuses on the system, and never on the people who do the work.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-23.u36	Clear. That has been established. Mrs. Van den Berg from the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-23.u37	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The CDA considers it very important that there is low-threshold care for mother and child. We think that this is also the case in the Netherlands and that is very nice. We therefore find it worrying that many people now think that pregnant women should no longer choose for themselves who their midwife is, because that is not the issue. The CDA has spoken to several people in the field. We also want to stress that the current system of financing remains in place and that there is only one possibility. We also think it is important for the self-employed midwife to have more information on how this integral funding and integrated cooperation work. Is that what the Minister wants to encourage? I have the impression that many people think the hospital is in charge. But during work visits I understand that this is not the case. A separate foundation is established in which control is also divided. For example, the Prosperous Start programme has an explicit place in this. But in view of the unrest that exists today, we think it is important that birth care is monitored. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, as from 1 July 2022, in addition to the current funding, comprehensive funding will be made possible in the birth care sector;]] [[whereas it is possible to remove barriers to cooperation between the first line and the second line, but it is not yet fully clear what the consequences will be;]] [[calls on the Government to continue to monitor and periodically inform the Chamber of the consequences of the introduction of comprehensive funding in addition to the current funding of birth care,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van den Berg and Mr Bikker.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32279-230]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-23.u38	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-23.u39	Very well, thank you. Mr Van Houwelingen did not participate in the written consultation, but nevertheless wishes to speak to us and perhaps to table a motion. If there's any objection to that, I'll hear it. If he is not, I will give him the floor. The floor is up to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-23.u40	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I see that Mrs Van den Berg has something to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-23.u41	I do not wish to give the floor to a colleague in this respect, but I am extremely sorry that all the preparatory work is not being carried out and that only the final part is being taken into account. This preparation also helps us to form and strengthen our own opinion. That's what I want to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-23.u42	That has been noted. Mrs. Tielen doesn't. Oh, Mrs. Tielen does.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-23.u43	Just so it doesn't get personal, we have rules. That is why I find it a pity that we should all make exceptions to this. So I'm confirming that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-23.u44	Clear. Mr. Van Houwelingen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-23.u45	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing yet another centralization of care. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs, we have noted that many times before, it suffers from the cult of the colossal: it cannot be large enough. We now have huge hospitals with an average of 500 hospital beds, half of the children's heart surgery centres have to disappear, and today the obstetrics are screwed. 'Cause what's the plan? It has already been said that integrated birth care organisations are being set up. A better term would be "central birth care organisations" because birth care is centralized in bureaucratic molochs, where the hospitals will undoubtedly be in charge. The obstetricians do not want that, because they will lose their autonomy and freedom. It becomes more difficult for them to shape their own practice in their own way. And you get a bureaucratic unitary sausage. It is therefore not good for working in care, it is not good for diversity and it is not good for pregnant women, who will soon see their freedom of choice reduced. Indeed, if their midwife practice is optionally not part of such an IGO, they may not be able to receive the full remuneration. We are therefore strongly opposed to this as a Forum for Democracy, which is why we would like to table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the advent of Integral Birth Care Organisations is putting pressure not only on independence and diversity but also on the quality of birth care and the freedom of choice of pregnant women;]] [[calls on the Government to require health insurance companies to pay full compensation to their midwifery outside an IGO, as well as general practitioners, and not to charge the insured person's own contribution,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Houwelingen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32279-231]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-23.u46	The Minister has laid the egg faster than anticipated, and we are very happy about that. The floor is up to him. He's always fast and on time, I hear Mrs. Agema say now. It's complimentary day, too, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-23.u47	Yes, Mr. Chairman, I was on the certain side with the motions and the questions. I just needed to make sure I had enough time. We are discussing an important issue today. Thank you for the questions and the motions. Birth care and working together is something that is at the top of care and what is needed nowadays, based on professionalism but in which the interests of a citizen, a mother, a father and parents are of course paramount. I think we should hold on to that very well. During the past period the necessary experiments have been carried out in the integrated birth care. I have also spoken with professionals, both those who contributed and cooperated in and were part of those experiments, and those who do not. Then I also hear the sounds as you say, of people who are enthusiastic and who say that this must take place and people who attach to their own autonomy. Hence the choice of a two-track policy. Which brings me to the questions. Mrs Bikker has asked what guarantees I think about freedom of choice and accessibility. Both the NZa and the RIVM will continue to follow closely the developments surrounding the funding of the birth care, each from their own perspective. Then there is a multitude of aspects that you can think of that are monitored, such as shift of care from second to first line, clear mutual agreements on which pregnant woman is being treated by whom, the experience of choice, the functioning of an IGO, the degree of satisfaction of pregnant people about collaboration, the quality of birth care and the contracting of health insurance companies. Mrs Bikker further asked if I would commit myself to further development of the monocost. The answer to that is yes. I have also explicitly chosen the combination, the two-track policy. So that also means: developing both.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-23.u48	Briefly, Mrs Bikker, one question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-23.u49	I welcome both answers. I would ask the Minister to look very closely at the quality of care in very specific areas as well. I am thinking, for example, of old urban areas and of villages that are at a somewhat greater distance from different hospitals. These are sensitive areas, so I would very much like to keep an eye on them.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-23.u50	I fully endorse that. The aspect of the regional situation is taken into account. Mr. Chairman. Mrs van der Plas and Mrs Ellemeet asked about the assurance that the midwife and the caregiver also have sufficient control: who will see to it? In an IGO, care parties conclude a cooperation agreement with each other. So that's where they're gonna be. They can also make good agreements about this cooperation. Everyone retains their own professional autonomy. As far as health care workers and their powers are concerned, I would, of course, like to mention that your Chamber has adopted Mrs Ellemeet's own-initiative proposal. Another question from Mrs Ellemeet was: how are women's experiences taken into account in monitoring? The NZa monitored all the experiences with freedom of choice. She will continue to do so, as I just said. The satisfaction of pregnant people with the mutual cooperation within birth care and the quality of care are also part of the monitoring, which is done jointly with RIVM.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-23.u51	Mrs. Van der Plas, briefly, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-23.u52	Short, short, short. ...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-23.u53	I need you to press the button, because we can't hear you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-23.u54	I don't think I got the full answer to my question. My question was: how can the Minister ensure that there will be no imbalance of power? Suppose a hospital wants to work with an obstetrician in an IGO. Then an obstetrician practice that wants to operate independently has it checked out. How can you ensure that this midwife practice does not lose that independence if it is a self-employed midwife practice? It'll go down for my own good. How do you ensure that that doesn't happen?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-23.u55	It is a bit of a faint answer, although it is not meant to be, but both parties are at first themselves: independent, but together if necessary. An IGO is therefore concluded with the input of all parties. Then you make a deal. If a party doesn't want that, then that party isn't part of that IGO either. Then there will be a separate contract with an insurer. It could be the other way around. You don't have to try that IGO first. I deliberately chose that two-track policy. So you can go either way.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-23.u56	Very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-23.u57	Yes, very briefly. I understand that answer, but I can't stop worrying about it. I'm just afraid the little ones will suffer because they're small. On the contrary, we would like to go back to the small, to a small society, with less and so on. I fear that these small self-employed people will disappear. As far as I'm concerned, the Minister can't take away that concern.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-23.u58	No, I'm afraid I can't completely take that care away. For me, the quality of birth care is important. That's why I started with: what comes first is the importance of the mother and the child. That's the lead. I am sure that all of us, including the obstetricians and gynecologists and all the others involved, including maternity nurses and so on, want the quality of birth care to remain at a high level and improve even further. If that calls for the possibility of full agreements and full financing......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... That possibility now exists, and it continues to exist.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-23.u59	We're going to the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-23.u60	If you'll allow me, Mr President, I'll do the remaining questions first.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-23.u61	I was premature again.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-23.u62	Mrs Tielen asked: the resistance in the field is great, because there is fear that independence will disappear, so how can the Minister facilitate the discussion between the professions? I'd like to bet on that. I have just appointed all this further development, through a consciously chosen two-track policy. That process is also supported by the NZa. Mr. Chairman. Then there was a question from Mr Van Houwelingen about the level playing field. How do we ensure that the obstetricians aren't oppressed? As already indicated, it is really up to the parties to come together to form a partnership, or not. The midwife shall remain autonomous.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-23.u63	I had asked the Minister whether he was prepared to give some information to the obstetricians on how the financing of such an integral partnership works. I think there are a lot of misunderstandings about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-23.u64	I am very willing to do that. I am sure that will also apply to the NZa and, of course, to the insurers. Mr. Chairman. Then there was a question from Mrs Van der Plas: what are the benefits of full funding? The aim of full funding is to reduce the thresholds for funding and thus to reduce thresholds in far-reaching cooperation. This is based on the assumption, as the reports of RIVM and of Berenschot also show, that close cooperation contributes to good care for mother and child. Mr. Chairman. Finally, Mrs van der Plas' question: how can a midwife's practice maintain independence? Also in an IGO the midwife practice remains. Just now it was suggested that it couldn't be close anymore. That is possible, even in an IGO, only you have an integral funding for the midwifery care within that specific area or within that partnership. So much for the questions, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-23.u65	The motions. No, Mrs. Van der Plas.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-23.u66	I'm sorry, Mr. Chairman. I think the Minister misunderstood me, because I didn't ask about the benefits. I asked whether there were any concrete indications of cases where only full funding offered a solution. I added that, as I see it, the added value lies in integrated working within an IGO. But that's independent of the funding. I would like to hear concrete examples, if there are any. That does not need to be done right now in the debate, unless the Minister can get it out of his head. That'd be great. It's okay. It's okay. It's okay. It's okay. It's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-23.u67	I have one concrete example. I hope that will answer your question, otherwise I would like to supplement it in writing later. A concrete example is an IGO in the Rotterdam-Rhinemond region, where there has been explicit agreement among ourselves on which patients can be treated in the first line and which in the second line. There is an explicit request: would you please continue the possibility of an IGO and the funding in full? This gives them the opportunity to keep some patients in the first line for a longer period of time. It is also my question to the NZa to monitor this explicitly, because if you do this successfully, it should ideally lead to an increase in the number of births in the first line.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-23.u68	Very good. The motions; please move quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-23.u69	Yes. For the motion in part No. 224 is the advice: dissuade. In fact, you are asking me to stop fully funding again. The cooperation which has been built up with great effort in a number of regions will then be abolished. The motion in part No. 225: Judgement Room. The motion in part No. 226: Also Judgment Chamber. The motion in part No. 227: Judgement Chamber, provided I may inform you for budgetary treatment and not for Princess Day.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-23.u70	The problem is that Mr Goudswaard has to confirm that, but he is not in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-23.u71	Then we'll have to do it separately. Otherwise, I have nothing but to discourage the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-23.u72	Well, that seems like the best thing to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-23.u73	The motion in part No. 228: Judgment of the Court of Justice. The motion in part No. 229: Also Judgment Chamber. The motion in part No. 230: Also Judgment Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-23.u74	Well, well, well. Well, well, well!
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-23.u75	And the motion in part No. 231 then we come back at the beginning... has been dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-23.u76	Very good. Thank you. We shall vote on the motions on Tuesday. So much for this debate... Mr Van Houwelingen, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-23.u77	The motion in part No. 231 has been dissuaded. However, I assume that the Minister, since he did not discourage my colleague Mr Agema's motion, is not against a level playing field. How can this motion be discouraged from being related to a level playing field?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-23.u78	Mr. Chairman. In fact, what about the motion on part No. 231 is that it is actually also the reversal of the whole and thus of the results of the experiment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-23.u79	Very good. So much for this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-23.u80	We shall vote on the motions on Tuesday.
