ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-6.u1	We shall continue with the debate on Mrs Bromet's and Mr De Groot's own-initiative proposal. We're on the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-6.u2	I shall be the first to give the floor to Mr Minhas of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-6.u3	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to begin by thanking the initiators for their commitment, for their response, but above all for their courage and the energy they have shown with their officials or the support to present this initiative proposal. There is a lot of time and energy in that. Whether we have the same opinion or not and whatever we think about it, they deserve those compliments. The same goes for the Minister, of course, who is here to advise the Chamber on this matter. Mr. Chairman. In the first term, I mentioned the role of water boards as the oldest institutions in our democratic system. The VVD is proud of that and I notice that this is Chamberwide, including the initiators. But I have to tell you that I have not heard enough of this in the reply. Because we are celebrated for the professionalism of Dutch water management. That is not only because of the democratically elected seats, but also because of the secure seats. This is also evident from various studies, which have been mentioned earlier today. Mr. Chairman. The VVD shares the view of the initiators that the task for which water boards stand will become more complex in the coming years, but is not yet convinced that the realization of this task by abolishing those secured seats will necessarily be easier. We therefore remain of the opinion that the comparison with municipalities and with provinces is not relevant. The task concept of waterboards is clear and delineated. Water boards should provide dry feet and clean water. As far as we are concerned, that task remains proud. Mr. Chairman. The task of the water boards is therefore clear, but the secured seats also have a towering quality level. This is mainly because they are chosen because of their qualities in order to contribute to good and high quality governance. This is also apparent from the research carried out by the Water Advisory Committee. The guarantee that the quality level will be at least as high, and perhaps better, we have that goal here with each other I do not have. That is why we are not in favour of this initiative proposal. The quality we have in the current system, with how the Waterschapswet is currently set up, likes to maintain the VVD. But before I come to a conclusion, Mr President, I am still concerned about how and when this proposal is being introduced.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-6.u4	Before you continue, I see an interruption in the first part by Mrs Maatoug, GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-6.u5	I never want to do an assumption, so I'm gonna check with a question. Because the VVD has a lot of members, in all kinds of waterboards, all over the country. In the second-term contribution of my colleague, it almost sounds as if those colleagues have no knowledge of the facts, do not make a good contribution and do not have the same knowledge of the water quality as everyone else in this very important administrative layer, which we have also praised in the first input with all of us.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-6.u6	I didn't hear a question, but I know what Mrs Maatoug means. I'd like to respond to that. I do not think we should fail anyone, of any party, those members of the waterboards. But hopefully we agree that everyone is giving their own interpretation of their membership in a waterboard, depending on their background. The members who enter through the secure seats are not in it for nothing. That's because of their quality and expertise. That's what the Minister was talking about. That's why we don't fail anyone, not even the VVDs; just not the VVDs, I would say as a VVD room member. Everyone sits in it from their own expertise. I had arrived at the motion I would like to table. It's like this. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the examination of the proposal to amend the Water Authority Act, the Election Act and the General Administrative Law has an impact on the composition of the election lists for the water Authority elections;]] [[Whereas it cannot be ruled out that provinces cannot adapt their regulations in time to the abolition of the secure seats;]] [[Whereas the number of members of the water authority to be elected may be unclear in view of the forthcoming water authority elections;]] [[calls on the Government, if the proposal to amend the Water Authority Act, the Election Act and the General Administrative Law for the abolition of the secure seats is adopted by both Chambers, to bring into force the amendments adopted after the watership elections of 2023,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Minhas, Mr Stoffer, Mr Goudswaard and Mr Van der Molen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35608-14]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-6.u7	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-6.u8	I shall now give the floor to Mr Sneller of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-6.u9	It is good that we can put questions to Mr Minhas in the second term. Again, as in his maiden speech, he gives up high from the secure seats. Do I understand correctly that it is a principled line of the VVD Group that it will not contribute to the abolition of a secure seat on the waterboard?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-6.u10	I think that's a little too quick to conclude. We believe that the secure seats make a very good contribution, but that abolishing them really is a step too far. There's an amendment in front of it. I'd like to take a look at that. I will take that to my group, because I believe that your question depends in particular on the fact that we do not want to think at all about abolishing a secure seat. I also see the opinion of the Water Advisory Committee, which states that you could do something. What is particularly important to me is that we think it is far too soon to abolish all secured seats under the guise of democratization.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-6.u11	Suddenly, that's a completely different story than in the first term. Mr Minhas talks about speed. What does he think of the way in which that amendment has been tabled, so that it is only now, in this period, when we are listening to the answers of the initiators, without any advice or consultation from outsiders?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-6.u12	I have listened to the Minister, who has appreciated this. He has clearly indicated that it is up to the Chamber to judge that. I know that there is the proposal to completely abolish the secure seats. That's way out of our league. I would like to think about the amendment because it is in line with the opinion of the Water Advisory Committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-6.u13	Actually, this was a bit of an answer to my question. I am very curious to see what the VVD Group will decide on the amendment. Of course, I'm in the mood, and I'm gonna see what's going on, even in the First Chamber. Whether this law is going to make it into this Chamber seems to depend on the PVV; it seems to have the key in its hands. But, of course, in the First Chamber, that's not the case. So I am very curious to see what the VVD will do with the amendment, but apparently that is still under consideration. If the VVD decides to support the amendment and the amendment makes it, what about this motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-6.u14	The specific question is: what does this motion do? If we now move towards the complete abolition of the secure seats, we are doing something careless towards all parties, towards all candidates of secure seats but also of unprotected seats, who are working on their candidate lists, because they have already started doing so far in advance. The amendment does not propose a complete abolition, but a reduction in the number of seats secured. If the amendment makes it, this motion could be withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-6.u15	Clear, Mr. Madlener?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-6.u16	Yeah, clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-6.u17	Thank you, Mr. Minhas. Then I give the floor to Mr Stoffer of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-6.u18	Mr. Chairman. I am doing my second term on behalf of Mrs Van der Plas of BBB, who cannot be present today because of circumstances. Firstly, I would of course like to thank the initiators and the Minister for answering my questions and those of colleagues. It shows that we are having a strong political discussion here. And yes, you look at the waterboard in a certain way. The initiators look at this quite differently than I do from the SGP, Mrs Van der Plas from BBB and others in the Chamber. I have made a very long contribution in the first term. I could repeat it, but I do not think that this will convince the initiators of my insights. On the other hand, I must also admit that the initiators have not managed to change my mind. I always try to do that in the debate, but in this case I am certainly not convinced. I stand in front of those secure seats, and I see the importance of that. I also had a lot to do with it; I said that in the first term. As far as I'm concerned, I'm just gonna vote against that law. My group does the same and BBB will do the same. It is, of course, a political discussion and it is a bit of a question, so I would say, to make it a real political one: let us make it a roll-call vote on Tuesday, I assume it is Tuesday. To this end, the application.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-6.u19	Thank you. Thank you for letting me know in good time. I shall now give the floor to Mr Sneller of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-6.u20	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you very much to the initiators for the thorough and passionate answer. Thanks also to the Minister for his advice to this Chamber. Or lack of advice; but that is also an advice. In any event, it has become clear to me also in response to Mrs Bromet's reply that, if this law is adopted, there is still a lot to be desired. I will understand this with our spokesman for water in the group so that next time he can give Mr Grinwis a better answer to the question he had asked me in the first term. I was a little surprised at the interruption debate that the JA21 spokesperson conducted with the initiators by pointing to other shortcomings in our democracy, as a kind of quasi-argument not to want to address this deficiency in our democracy. I would say that there are more things that we have to wish for together. Do not let that stand in the way of this improvement. I hope that there will be a little further insight into this, but that will have to come soon. Thank you also to the Minister for his comments on the promotion of participation and on realism. I think this is justified. At the same time, I hope that there will be ambition to promote this. I do indeed believe that, unfortunately, we are being helped by the conditions that exist outside the real world. In any case, I will advise my group to vote in favour, but thanks to Mr Stoffer they can all express their opinion on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-6.u21	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Grinwis, Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-6.u22	Mr. Chairman. Thank you very much to the authors, Mrs Bromet and Mr De Groot, and to all the supporters. Thanks also to our advisor, the Minister. Certainly during the first term of the Chamber it was a lively debate. I'm looking back on a nice debate. It also has a bit to do with it that it is not clear in advance what the majority in this house looks like. That, of course, makes every debate in this house really interesting: if there is to be a fight for a majority. That is also a bridge to my amendment. I have just tabled an amendment which I had already announced in the first time. Heard the response, I would table an amendment. It goes one step further, I say to reassure Mrs Bromet, then simply remove the secure seats from the daily administration. It also deals with the second point in my speech, namely the fixed division between the secure seats of two-two-two. Both aspects of the amendment are exactly in line with the opinion of the 2015 Water Advisory Committee, which was not followed up at the time. Mr. Chairman. I understand and realize that this amendment is quite a grotesque change in the present initiative proposal. I have, of course, considered how to do this differently, given this debate. A motion doesn't change a law in the end. All things considered, I thought I would have to table an amendment. I hope that the proposers will not cause me any trouble. At least, maybe only today, but not tomorrow. That's just like context and defense. The substance of the amendment is perfectly consistent with what I argued in the first term. In that sense, I refer back to the first term. In my view, it is a crystal clear amendment and a crystal clear explanatory statement. Let it speak for itself. I hope I can organize a majority for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-6.u23	I cannot speak on behalf of the initiators, nor do I want to forgive them. But if someone himself describes his amendment as a 'great change', and certainly if that is Mr Grinwis, who is mostly of care here, then my question is: is this indeed the way to do this?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-6.u24	Yeah, I think I've just accounted for that. Yes, this is the way to do it in any case. The proposal that I put on the table and put before the Chamber is not new. It was advised by the Water Advisory Committee in 2015. At the time, nothing was done about it, which, in the opinion of the Christian Union Group, was a good advice and consistent with our previous commitment to these debates. I've made the following assessment. I find it a bit sad to make a grotesque or, at least, a proper conversion of an initiative proposal. That's what I did with this. I had to make a trade-off. Do I allow the proposers to do that? No, not that. At the same time, this is the only way to avoid the abolition of the secure seats as a whole, while improving the management of water resources in line with the opinion of the Water Advisory Committee, which is closest to the commitment of the Christian Union Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-6.u25	It is amazing that an opinion of seven years old has never seemed to have led to any parliamentary action. It's a completely different point, but that's just amazing to me. The fact that positions under pressure all of a sudden become very liquid, in a waterboard debate in itself, I find fascinating in terms of metaphor, but otherwise rather sad. But submitting an amendment to an own-initiative proposal... I do not know what opinion the initiators are going to make on this, but if it had been my initiative law, I would have said it was a destructive amendment. That is no different than that, but it is a completely new proposal. It should actually be a very separate proposal. I find that disappointing. I would have hoped that Mr Grinwis had tabled it or a few weeks ago, because we could have discussed it a little more extensively, or simply omitted it. Then there would still be a possibility to stop it. It's just called "voting on the initiative legislative proposal."
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-6.u26	Mr Sneller is really failing the democratic debate in this house. A few weeks ago, I put this on the table. I have made extensive reference to the opinion of the Water Advisory Committee. Mr. Sneller is in this house longer than I am. I've been a member of parliament for about a year now. The written examination of this initiative proposal and the debate came rather quickly. I think it is a very orderly process in itself that I now propose an amendment and not an initiative myself when this bill would be adopted in the meantime. That is precisely what became clear in the first term of this debate. It's just super exciting how this is gonna end. So, on the whole, I think it is absolutely legitimate that we should now try to improve the legislative proposal with this amendment, because that is my commitment to the substance. I am fully aware that if this amendment were to be adopted, this would not be good news for the proposers.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-6.u27	Moreover, the initiators, in the form of Mrs Bromet, have already advised against the amendment in the first period.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-6.u28	Yeah, they already have.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-6.u29	Mr Grinwis is one of my favorite colleagues in the coalition. Then you know that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-6.u30	Was!
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-6.u31	I'm going to take this day too, but those are all personal qualifications that are irrelevant. I liked the start of Mr Grinwis' second term so much. He said: a debate in this House matters, because in the debate the weighting of the arguments is so decisive. That not only makes it exciting, but also makes the debate better. The same was true of the judgment of the cabinet. It is up to the political groups to decide. You'd give us a little more democracy. That's the way it's gonna be. The reason why I find this amendment so regrettable, and not only unfortunate but really, really problematic, is this one. Not only when you look at the three paragraphs in the explanatory statement, but especially when you look at the article-by-article legal language, which I find mostly difficult to follow, you see that each article part of each part is deleted. Article I (C) is deleted. Article I, Section D, is deleted. Article I (E) is deleted. Article I (F) is deleted. G, H, I, Ia, II, IIA, IIB. De facto, this amendment tears whole pages out of the law and says: I like it that way. My question to the Christian Union Group is: isn't it much more democratic? That is what we talked about all night long to get the States-General to decide and look into the Senate: this is the state of affairs, this is what we have judged on the initiative that these colleagues have put forward? That position gives us a fertile soil to see how we move on and what we're going to do. Then this initiative would probably be something we can talk about, or it would no longer be necessary because we decided otherwise. Why do you have to cross out a whole law? My follow-up question is: what would my colleague say if we tabled such amendments in each debate?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-6.u32	I believe that I have already replied to this question by Mr Maatoug, whom I also appreciate, in my introduction, in my explanation of the struggle to table an amendment which amends the initiative in a far-reaching way. For me, however, there are compelling reasons for doing it now, because it is the only way we have at the moment to say, if a legislative proposal is put to the vote and adopted unchanged, that the system is deteriorating from the perspective of the Christian Union. So, considering, this is the tool I have as a Member of Parliament, namely an amendment. The right of initiative is there, but as co-legislator I also have the right of amendment to amend it. Indeed, there is a great deal going on in legal terms, but in essence it is a very simple discussion: do you want to abolish the secure seats or do you want to modernise them? I've chosen to modernise.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-6.u33	I'm not gonna let you trick me into talking about modernising. My follow-up question would be as follows. One of the most important means available to the Christian Union Group is to say that it is against this law, after which the Chamber can speak. Why such an amendment? Why not just say "we're against"?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-6.u34	Because I see substantive reasons for improving the current system, in line with the Water Advisory Committee. Several groups in this House have expressed a positive opinion on the opinion of the Water Advisory Committee in 2015, which has never been followed up. That's one. Two. We are, of course, looking at political relations. If the Christian Union Group only uses its right to vote and not its right to amend it, then perhaps the bill will pass; and if I, as a member of the Christian Union Group, use my right to amend it, it will end differently. That's what we're here for. That is also part of the democratic debate in this House, hence this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-6.u35	It does, of course, take a very important piece of principle out of the legislative proposal. The faces of the proposers speak volumes, of course. They're not gonna like this. But yes, politics is a hard job. It's part of the game. It is indeed very legitimate to table a far-reaching amendment, as Mr Grinwis is doing now. Fine. We'll consider it. When I look at voting relations, especially in the First Chamber, it may be a choice for us between this amendment or nothing. Anyway, we're gonna have to consider that. The only thing I have difficulty with is not so much that the proposers are kicked on the toes, but that it goes very far. There is also no opinion from the Council of State. Not that I always think that's necessary. But this does so much to the bill... Can Mr Grinwis convince me? I know that Bureau of Legislation, which I'm sure you helped...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-6.u36	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-6.u37	... is very competent, but what is this amendment going to do with the whole law? Is it still legal, to put it that way? Is it legally well-founded? Did you get a look at that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-6.u38	Thank you to Mr Madlener for this question. This amendment is as good as my other amendments and as good as Mr Madlener's amendments. We are doing it with very capable support from the Legislative Office and with legal advice from the Ministry. That is how we make amendments. We do not have the procedure of sending them to the Council of State, of "what do you think, best College of State?" So, no, it wasn't reviewed by the Council of State. However, this amendment does not fall from the sky. It is based directly on the opinions of the Water Advisory Committee, a respectable college in 2015, now more or less incorporated into the Environment and Infrastructure Council.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-6.u39	I support it in itself. It is an improvement on the current proposal. In that sense, we could consider it, but the essence of the law is being undermined. Again, my main question is: is this really legally justified? I don't know how to look at it. I see all kinds of deletions, whole pages being deleted. Fine. I understand the objective, too. I can understand it very well. Just whether it is legally completely waterproof and suitable for legislation? It's literally taken over when we take it. Then this is literally part of it. I'm just looking for an extra security. If Mr Grinwis can provide it, perhaps in the next week, I would appreciate it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-6.u40	I just answered the question procedurally. Office for Legislation has put its legal stamp on it. Legal assistance has been requested from the Ministry of IenW. But the substance of the amendment I am proposing is quite clear, namely that no longer the obligation to secure the day-to-day administration and the current number of seven to nine secure seats, depending on the size of the waterboard, is fixed at six or two-two-two. So the content of the amendment is extremely clear. In my opinion, there is not so much wrong with legal matters. In fact, it seems to me to be an orderly amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-6.u41	I'm gonna take a little time to study the latter. However, I would like to draw Mr Grinwis' attention to the report by the Van der Staaij working group, which contains not for nothing, including the quality of the Legislation Bureau, which we all have high regard for: pay more time and attention to amendments. Then it says quite explicitly: "Please submit amendments preferably at the latest at the start of the legislative debate in plenary, so that there is sufficient time for further consultation, reactions and advice." That doesn't stand for nothing.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-6.u42	No, but I've already gone into that. I have been preparing this amendment for some time. I've already appointed it in the first term. The time between the first term of the Chamber and the first term of the proposers has, of course, been used to further review and improve it. And then I listen to the first-term reply from the proposers. That's how I announced it: I'm gonna listen first and then I'm gonna file it. So I just submitted it at the end of the first term. But the preparation has just been careful. In general, I am used to presenting it at the beginning of the debate, but this debate is split in several weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-6.u43	I hear Mr Grinwis say several times: there is a very good opinion from 2015 from the Water Advisory Committee, but that has never been followed up. I'm curious. If the Christian Union and now Mr Grinwis, who is a Member of Parliament for a year, consider this to be such an important report, why has the Christian Union never succeeded in doing so since 2015? Why has this proposal, now in the form of an amendment, never been submitted by the Christian Union before?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-6.u44	Now I'm being asked a little over, because I wasn't part of the group at the time. I do know that in 2009 there was an opinion from the CAW. Then, in 2008, 2009 and also 2013, some fundamental discussions were held on the future of the waterboards. For example, proposals have been put forward by former colleague Schouw van D66 to abolish the waterboards. At that time, in 2013, a motion has also been tabled by Mr Segers to remove the obligation to ensure that secure seats are part of the executive board. That motion was rejected at that time. In 2009 there was therefore that opinion and in 2008, 2009 and also 2013 there were quite fundamental discussions and motions. And then in 2015 there was that opinion of the Water Advisory Committee. There's plenty of ammo. In this sense, the Christian Union is consistent with the commitment in 2013, when it was argued that the number of secure seats should be reduced and the obligation to allow them to be part of the day-to-day administration. So what I'm saying here is extremely consistent and in line with the most impactful discussion we've had at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-6.u45	I believe it is consistent with the line of the Christian Union. I am concerned that there is already a consistent line in the Christian Union. But since 2015 there has been a very important report from the Water Advisory Committee. There's never been any follow-up. My specific question is then the following. Mr Grinwis considered this opinion to be very relevant. Then why has no follow-up been given from the Christian Union since 2015? Why didn't you do it until now? We are now discussing, in 2022, a new bill, a new way to look at it. 2015 to 2022, that's quite a period. It would be very important to follow up, as I hear from Mr Grinwis. So it could have been at another time. I find that very regrettable, even now that we have a proposal on the abolition of the secure seats. In the years before, there would also have been the possibility of discussing the Christian Union's proposal with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-6.u46	But I have just answered that, namely that I will be asked over. I've been here a year. I cannot look beyond that year and say why no initiative would have been taken by the Christian Union or any other group between 2015 and then with regard to change of the waterboard administration. I do know that a motion was put to the vote in 2019 to abolish or at least to do something with the secure seats, and that the Christian Union Group voted against it again. I can only say something about the voting behaviour and motions tabled in 2013. I must remain guilty of the question of what happened after 2015. In fact, the position has not changed...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-6.u47	You just said that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-6.u48	... and we have to deal with the bill and the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-6.u49	You're finishing up?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-6.u50	Yes. What do you want me to say? I think this was the most important thing. I liked today's democratic debate. I believe that the profit of this debate is that the right of the waterboards to exist is right and that it is widely recognised in this Chamber. If you compare that with the period from 2008 to 2010, then that's really big profit. I think it is important for the waterboards to be able to continue their good work in the field of water. I would say: live the waterboards, live our Dutch water management!
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-6.u51	Thank you, Mr Grinwis. Then we'll go to Mr. Van der Molen, CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-6.u52	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to endorse the last words that Mr Grinwis said. The conclusion was already reached in the first period that the parties are now also expressing a very positive opinion on the waterboards and their continued existence from an unexpected point of view. In all cases, this is a gain, whether or not the amendment is successful. Mr. Chairman. In the first term, it was a very animated debate. In the second period, that was slightly less the case. In any event, I would like to thank the authors for the very adequate response. You can see in the discussion that parties still cannot agree. I think it's wonderful that Members of Parliament should put their shoulders under an initiative law. I also think it is wonderful that we can have a good, thorough discussion among Members of Parliament about what we mean and what the arguments are. I conclude, at least for myself, that I have greatly appreciated that on the part of the proposers and the Minister. Mr. Chairman. However, the CDA continues to think fundamentally differently about the importance of the secure seats. That is what we have brought up again in the debate. It's not only "if it ain't broken, don't fix it," but it's also just that the secured seats have added value. As an advisor, the Minister has indicated that this added value is in the introduction of knowledge and skills. The CDA really sees this as an important part of the support, work and implementation of the waterboard. It would be a real shame if the secure seats were abolished. Then there is Mr Grinwis' amendment. This has been the subject of a major debate. Mr Grinwis said he stood here with a heavy heart. That may be a burden in the dynamics that this brings. But, yes, I can't qualify it negatively if a Member of Parliament does his best to see if he can put anything of a compromise on the table in a polarized discussion. In this way we, as the CDA group, will also look at Mr Grinwis' amendment, because a very substantial part of this Chamber..... I think I can support Mr Madlener of the PVV.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... One of the reasons why we have never done anything with the Water Advisory Committee is because we are not dissatisfied with today's situation. That does not mean at all that any improvement proposal would then come up against a CDA njet. I would just like to point out that we will look very favourably at the amendment. However, we still need to discuss this, because it has now been tabled during this period.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-6.u53	I'm really confused. I spent a whole night listening to a CDA group explaining that nothing had to be changed. It was perfect! It was good! It was so important! There was a whole zipper of argument. Today we have listened to the answer and an amendment is on the table, and suddenly the whole argument of the first term is a compromise. I think that's a bit easy, idealless politics. I thought it was perfect. Then why do we need to change anything?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-6.u54	I would like to respond to that in two ways. My colleague wants to change something about the waterboards. Then another colleague made a proposal. That is wrong, because that proposal does not go as far as the colleague wants. I think that's weird, too. We can pretend that this has come from ideals, but it already started at the kick-off of Mrs Bromet. At least that's the image I've got. The authors know each other from the Water Party of course. That was one of the very first efforts of this debate. I have heard arguments about an increased public interest, new tasks and no longer a closed house. In my opinion, all these arguments were sought, while behind them is something that is non-idealistic. That is the conclusion that the parties to which the proposers belong are very often confronted with the counter-arguments of those who sit on the seats they are now proposing to abolish. Yeah, if I wanted to take out my opposition on the waterboard, I would. So is this proposal born of idealism or naked political opportunism? The Prophets would say: "For a good cause." We shouldn't have excessive expectations either. As a compromise, I look at Mr Grinwis's proposal. I have not yet been able to speak about this in my group. I would like to take a sympathetic look at that, but it may be that I have colleagues who do not have the goodwill. That's what we're talking about. We shall then see again next Tuesday at the votes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-6.u55	I have a follow-up question. Regardless of the results and regardless of the policies within the same frameworks, the debate we had with each other was about: are you in favour of more democracy, yes or no? That's how I looked at this law. The real question I have for my colleague is: what is the weighting of the CDA Group? The CDA Group's argument was that it is extremely important that knowledge is secured in a certain way, as is the case now, and that this is also the case in the administration. That was the whole structure of the argument. I think the answer 'I like a compromise; I discuss it too little in the group'. So my question is: would the CDA colleague be willing to respond to the substance of the amendment, why is it possible that the amendment is looked at positively? Because the argument that we exchanged in the first term, in my view, perhaps I do not understand it a bit with the proposed line. That is a substantive question in order to be able to follow the thinking of colleagues better, given the debate we have had.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-6.u56	In the direction of my colleague Maatoug, I say the following. You are now making a comment and asking a question. If it were your starting point to look at this law in such a way that it would become more democratic if the secure seats were abolished, then in my opinion you have chosen the wrong approach to the debate. The secure seats and democracy are not at odds with each other, as the minister as an advisor to the Chamber and the Council of State said. With this bill, we will not make the waterboards more democratic. That is the view of the CDA Group. You're looking at the law from that angle. I look at the law completely differently. I think the secure seats add something. Mr. Chairman. Then specifically the question in relation to the amendment tabled by Mr Grinwis of the Christian Union. I have to say at least that this is why I am kind enough to say that this option will still include secure seats on the waterboard under new conditions with a fixed number of seats. It would not be the proposal that we would introduce. I didn't. But then I'll have to weigh between two flavors you can get. I'd like to take a positive look at that. The outcome will be evident in the vote, because we will eventually have to find something of Mr Grinwis's proposal and of the proposers' proposal by hand.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-6.u57	We'll do the interruptions in half.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-6.u58	I have received an appreciation from my approach to the debate. My question was as follows. Now I reframe the question I just asked. The argument was that it was extremely important to ensure knowledge. This amendment is a significant change. The only answer I get is: it's less bad. But my question is, why is this good? I hear the CDA colleague say that he is not okay with this either and that he is actually just against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-6.u59	Politics is so structured that we often make choices here between two non-ideal options. It's just... it's just... it's just... it's I have to deal with the amendment put forward by Mr Grinwis. I'd like to consider that in the end. I must also consider whether that can be useful to prevent something worse. That is the abolition of the secure seats. But if the amendment had not been there, voting on the law for the CDA would of course have been very simple. We're just totally against that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-6.u60	Thank you. You're finishing up.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-6.u61	That is what I said in response to the Grinwis amendment. The CDA supports the motion put forward by Mr Minhas, because, of course, care on the part of the proposers must be taken. I have also felt in Mr De Groot's replies that the authors believe that if this law is adopted and that it has an impact on candidates and procedures, then of course we must do justice to the rights of people in the current democratic system. I can go along with that. I believe that the motion tabled by Mr Minhas will at least further secure that. We shall await the vote on that. Mr President, I would like to summarize this, but that will certainly be a repetition. The CDA attaches importance to the task of the waterboards. We agree with the authors that the challenge we face in terms of climate, environment, water storage and all kinds of other issues affecting the soil and water has only increased the waterboards' role. We have also had this kind of challenge in the past. There have always been such challenges, in very different forms than today. We're not always the last generation to really see things. It is precisely these secure seats that have proved that the binding of the interests of people so directly affected by the choice of the waterboard would simply be an unwise matter. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-6.u62	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mrs Maatoug, GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-6.u63	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Also of GroenLinks compliments for the authors and thanks for the answer, and compliments to the cabinet for the release and not giving a provision. I would like us to see this more often on more subjects, because not only water boards deserve good democratic debates. I think this applies to a lot of subjects in this house. I would like to say two things. The first is that the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance was rather surprised and pleased with the debate and the sharpness of the debate. After the night we had the debate, I went back to the history of universal suffrage and made a comparison. It's a bit of a big equation. At that time, I looked at the arguments given as to why the position of certain people had to be more secure: they paid so much or they knew so much about it. They were synonyms of the kind of arguments we have always used to say to a certain group that the voice of some is more important than others. That is how I looked at the debate at the time. It's funny, because I didn't make that contribution at the time, but I didn't want to take that comparison away from colleagues.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-6.u64	Well, that's very nice, but that could have been fine, because that comparison doesn't make any sense. The only thing you're saying is that anyone who's in favour of secure seats is anti-democrat. That's your point. Yeah, but we'd still have the nobility! I still have to compliment GroenLinks: you are the only one in this house who proves that in general democracy you can give the nobility another place in the decision-making process. You're consistent with that. But you are not going to claim here that all those parties who want to have a few secured seats on a total number of seats, most of which are directly elected, are parties who think antidemocratically? Right?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-6.u65	I don't think that's what I said at all. I said, I see a parallel in the argumentation. I find the reaction of my colleague very striking. I leave the appreciation of that conclusion to everyone who listens to this debate. I see great parallels in the argumentation. In my first plea, I say that we think that this bill is very good because it makes it more democratic. And we're okay with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-6.u66	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-6.u67	I will certainly continue my speech. Then the second thing I want to say, about something that I am very sorry about. I have just said this to Mr Grinwis in the interrupting debate. I think it is important for Mr Grinwis to have noticed this himself. The reason I find it very disappointing is that we have just started with: let us all judge ourselves. I am always in favour, as a person and as a Member of Parliament, of using all the instruments that Members of Parliament have. I have not yet discussed this with my group, but I think that this also applies to my group. If I look at the debates we have had before, at the appreciation of, for example, amendments that have been introduced, even if there was a test, and see how that was looked at, also by the groups that now say that they are in favour of this, then I feel a bit of a discrepancy there too. Then I think: well, it's too bad we're doing it like this. Finally, Mr President, I have only one thing left. GroenLinks is not afraid of the voter. We're sitting here with eight seats. I wish there were more. Every day we do our best to show that we interpret people well. I would like to give the best possible representation to all waterboards, and that certainly applies to the 45% of farmers who are not now represented by secure seats.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-6.u68	Thank you. There is an interruption by Mr Stoffer of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-6.u69	Eight seats? I think they are venerable seats, but I am actually curious what will happen next week to those venerable seats. My specific question is: what would GroenLinks prefer? A law with the adopted amendment, or no law?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-6.u70	That's an interesting question. My appreciation is... That is why I am so pleased with initiatives from the Chamber and the Chamber in its co-legislative role. In preparation for the first term I have tried to read me well in all the reports that were there. It's been a long time. It is that these colleagues have taken the initiative to say: we want it that way. It's very clear to us. I fully support the bill. The Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance supports the bill. Why? We think it is extremely important to democratize this important layer of government. That is better for everyone and also for all interests. We think that's gonna give you a better overall balance. I have not yet been able to understand the amendment, because I see the big pen mark in particular, but I am not looking at it in a positive light. Since there are no such opinions, I'm going to seek them legally. I tend to object, but we are just going to discuss it in the group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-6.u71	Finally, Mr Van der Molen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-6.u72	Let me turn to Mr Maatoug's last point. She says, "I don't have the advice." But the Chamber is free to ask for information from the Council of State, for example, on the basis of Article 21a. Then we simply ask the Council of State to send a note, on the basis of which Mr Grinwis's proposal is examined. Then you have all the arguments to make a decision. Is that what Mrs Maatoug brings up here?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-6.u73	I'm gonna take a sip of water, because I don't feel like responding very primarily to this question. This question was not asked in the first period, when Mr Grinwis said: I have an idea; I am considering an amendment. Then there was no question: what are you going to do? Are you asking for advice? What's the deal? The questions raised, including by the CDA Group, about precise legislation, are only given to us, or I see a great deal of that; let me express myself more precisely in relation to an opposition proposal. Now you are going to ask the person, me, who just asked very sharply what your appreciation is, because I want to weigh it, why I did not apply for a test on a colleague's amendment. I really think that's the opposite world.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-6.u74	Thank you. Finally, Mr Van der Molen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-6.u75	Someone said you're not gonna be the favorite coalition politician. But we have not had so much to do with each other in the debate. I do not make a great deal of distinction in this respect, I would just like to say to you through the President. With me, it's fair play. In the meantime, you can ask the coalition ministers how difficult they have been with me. That's not the point. The point made by Mrs Maatoug is that she does not have all the information and that she would like an opinion from the Council of State to be included. The only point I make is that the Chamber is free. We can ask for a Council of State opinion if necessary. Then I will refer to Mrs Maatoug: does she think that is necessary or not? If Mrs Maatoug doesn't think that's necessary, that's just the way it is. But it should not give the impression that the Chamber has no instrument to chew on it again.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-6.u76	Mrs Maatoug, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-6.u77	You don't know me very well. I can have a lot, too. I think everything's okay here. You can say anything to me. I am also very pleased that you are asking that question. But here again I show the discrepancy between the fact that I do get that question and Mr Grinwis does not get it in the first place. The point I wanted to make... that was not what this debate was about, but perhaps it was. We're talking about democratisation. This has to do with the use of the instruments and also the use of procedural arguments. My group supports the quality of legislation. We'll see what goes wrong. We're here today on Accountant Day. College after college warns us about the role of the Chamber. What strikes me is that these arguments from the coalition banks are very well used in opposition proposals. If it is convenient, then those arguments do not apply. You will also ask the opposition chamber member who has not even tabled the amendment. And then you won't look at me while I answer you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-6.u78	Thank you, Mrs Maatoug. Then we'll go to Mrs. Van Esch, Party for the Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-6.u79	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I was just going to say that it had been such a nice, lively debate, but maybe I should take those words back.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-6.u80	You can delete that first sentence.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-6.u81	The critical tone was already set in the first term, but I think it is now being continued, which is also fine, because we are in this house for that too. On behalf of me too, I would like to thank you very much for the very clear, brief, good and point-by-point answers, including those of the questions we have asked. I do not need to say so much about it in my second term, because the Animal Party was already in favour of this initiative proposal and remains so after this debate. As far as we are concerned, it is really not democratic to guarantee the LTOs and VNOs of this world a number of seats in a democratic body as far as we are concerned. As far as we are concerned, we are doing as democraticly as possible to set up our country. We consider it wise to make the layout of the waterboards more democratic in 2022. I'd like to close with that, Mr. Chairman. Short but powerful, but I think we have exchanged all the words.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-6.u82	Well, that's the way it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-6.u83	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-6.u84	Thank you, Mrs Van Esch. Then we'll go to Mr. De Hoop, Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-6.u85	Mr. Chairman. Thanks again to the initiators for the good answer and for the good debate that has arisen here, but above all also for the good legislative proposal. I would like to emphasise that I do think that the involvement of interest groups in our democracy is important to inform administrators and politicians, but my group also believes that the democratic legitimacy of the waterboard will be increased if we do not have secure seats in it. So my group is going to vote with conviction in favour of the De Groot and Bromet bill. I also hope that this proposal will succeed. The PVV has a major role to play and I hope it will stand firm and vote in favour. I appreciate that the Christian Union is moved in the area of waterboards, but its amendment undermines the importance of the legislative proposal, which I cannot vote for.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-6.u86	The position of the PvdA is very clear. That's good, and so was ours. A question, though. A while ago, there was an interview in the magazine HO. I do not know if Mr De Hoop knows that sheet, but that sheet is about water management and the like. It asked the following question: should we allow this separate administrative layer of the waterboards to exist? Then one of Mr De Hoop's predecessors answered: as a PvdA we answer that question negatively, we propose to maintain the waterboards as an organisation but to place administrative responsibility in general democracy, and in the provinces. There's a lot more to come, but I don't call that now because of time. My question is whether that is the continuing ideal of the PvdA. Does Mr De Hoop also have any clarity as to which PvdA spokesperson this statement was?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-6.u87	No, I'm not clear on that. I don't know exactly when the interview was given. I have been in the Chamber for a year now and I cannot say more than I am now the spokesman on this dossier. Moreover, I do believe that the water boards as functional governance have an important role to play and that they should not be included in the province. I do think that the waterboard is being democratically legitimized in this way, and that makes me in favour of this bill, and I also believe that it should not be included in the province.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-6.u88	The answer to the first question is clear. On the second question, I can give the answer. In the first term, I was rather taken up by the PvdA because I had some critical comments on Mr Boelhouwer's presidency. That's what this is about. This interview was an extensive interview with Mr Boelhouwer. This was his political stance. It does not seem to me very strange that I have any feeling about that and that is why I showed it behind the cathedral where you stand now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-6.u89	Mr Stoffer is free to make that point. Apart from the fact that someone can have an opinion on something, that person can still play a neutral role in a committee. That's fine. It bothered me that Mr Stoffer expressed doubts about Mr Boelhouwer's intentions and neutrality. I repeat that now, as Mr Stoffer has just put forward his argument. That's entirely up to him. It doesn't stop me from still being a big supporter and sticking to the line as I just put it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-6.u90	Thank you. Then we'll go to Mr. Madlener, PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-6.u91	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the authors for their flaming speech. I always like to see when your colleagues seem so enthusiastic about getting away from themselves; that's well done. I was also enthusiastic about the proposal in the first term. The PVV was enthusiastic, despite the many distressed reactions we have had from farmers. We will certainly include them in our deliberations, but we believe that democratizing the waterboards is not so much a threat to farmers. I think it's overrated. There are also many farmers in favour of abolishing those secure seats. I think that the farmers suffer a lot from environmental legislation, from climate legislation, from everything that comes from Brussels and so on. This is a really small point, but okay. It also started with happy faces. The proposers were fierce and exhilarated. I even got the key from colleagues, so to speak, as if we could determine it. If we look at the distribution in the First Chamber, it's very different. Mr Grinwis's amendment has now thrown the whole thing apart, because we can all count on it; if Mr Grinwis's amendment does not make it, then I do not think the bill will make it in the First Chamber either. That's the bottom line. Then we have nothing. So I feel this is more like a choice between Mr Grinwis's proposal or nothing. I had a basic argument for democratisation, and I hope that the parties of the proposers will continue to do so, with, for example, elected mayors and referenda, because of course it has to go far beyond just the waterboards. So I want to encourage them to do so. But the choice seems to be Grinwis' proposal or nothing. That is the choice that we now have as a group, unless someone can change my mind. That's how I see it now. That is very disappointing; I understand that for the proposers and also for us in a way. But, yeah, that's how I see it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-6.u92	You're at the end of your input? Then we'll go to some interruptions. First of all, Mr De Hoop, PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-6.u93	Of course, Mr Madlener is free to make his own assessment, but I find the reasoning strange. Mr Madlener is a member of the House of Representatives. That House has submitted an initiative proposal for the full democratisation of the waterboards. That's what he stood up for. Then I think it would be very silly to vote in favour of an amendment, and it is your consideration that the whole basis of this initiative proposal, which is democratisation, is being undermined. 'Cause those secure seats will just be retained. I find it a very strange argument to make that weighting and vote for it. The proposers also have every opportunity to defend themselves in the First Chamber and to obtain a majority there. So I find it weird to make the weighting that way. I also think it is a shame for the PVV's own argument that has been put forward very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-6.u94	I sympathize with Mr De Hoop. That's the way it is. But we live in a pluralist democracy. So you're gonna have to count: what's it like in the First Chamber? And I can count. You may be less able to do that; I don't know. But I'd say try it again. We can say here in principle that we support the proposal or that we do not support it, but then we have nothing. Unfortunately, it seems that we now have to make a choice. We have Mr Grinwis' proposal, which is indeed a huge improvement. The obligation to be admitted to the Executive Board will therefore lapse, and the number of seats will be reduced. So that is a clear improvement on the current system, in the sense that it is more democratic. I have to be slightly positive about that. Look, the enemy of the best is the good... Or how did that saying go again? Well, you know what I mean. We must choose here: pragmatically opt for an improvement, or choose for nothing. We'll see how this goes in the future, including behind the scenes. There's gonna be a lot of things going on. I also ask the proposers to respond to this. Do they see any rescue for their proposal? Because it's a huge change. This amendment makes it quite different, but we still think it is an improvement on the current system. Isn't that what you think, Mr. De Hoop?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-6.u95	I think it's weird to know what the proportions are gonna be in the Upper House right now. If I see the agility of JA21 on this proposal recently, it may well be that the weather has changed before it is in the Upper House. I would therefore find it a shame to make the assessment in this way. I'd like to give you that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-6.u96	Well, Mr. Hope, I've been walking around here longer than you, but we can both count. You were talking about that agility. I just see how it is. That's what we're dealing with. Of course, it would not be wise to close our eyes to that and simply say: in principle, we are right. That's not gonna get us anywhere. So that's the choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-6.u97	D66 has some experience of how Upper Parliamentary Groups can vote on such democratisation proposals. I had actually hoped for the night of Nanninga, but I also count a number of groups that are no longer represented here. I refer, for example, to the Otten Group and to the 50PLUS Group. Together, those, with the votes here, would be enough to get to that 38. I appreciate how open Mr Madlener is putting it down. I understand his dilemma very well, too. I have had that with other legislative proposals myself. But my question to him is whether he will at least contact me with these groups to hear how they stand in it. They haven't seen this whole bill yet, but he's leaving his vote on an amendment, which we've all said what we think about it, depending on what these groups are going to vote on this bill. In addition to the Otten Group and the 50PLUS Group, there are also the Frentrop Group and the Forum for Democracy Group, where... Well, I don't know what position they have, what internal referendum they're holding or what they're doing. We could also approach them, because for example, the Frentrop Group also has two seats. If we can agree to that, I'd appreciate it very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-6.u98	I have just said that, as is always the case in situations like this, there will be a lot of rounds of bells behind the scenes in the next week and there will be a review of the situation. That will certainly be important for how we are going to vote. That's how everyone's in it. There are, of course, pragmatic parties to see if they can achieve something that goes in the right direction or stick to their position. That's what's gonna happen. I can tell you that I am very well accessible, even for some farmers, as it turned out. That's how things go here. So what will happen will remain exciting until the vote. But I challenge the authors to give us some clarity on this if that is possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-6.u99	Great. Keep an eye on the text!
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-6.u100	What does Mr Madlener think of the motion I tabled? It calls on the government, if the law is adopted, to amend or not, to allow the amendments to take place only after the next water-ship elections.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-6.u101	I'm not excited about that, because then we'll be four years away. We're talking about this now. It is sufficient for the submission of the lists. We've heard from the Minister. It has to be possible if it's all going smoothly. We can ask that of ourselves, and that also applies to the treatment in the Upper Chamber; we can at least ask that. Look, if it doesn't go any other way, it's gonna stop, of course. It has to be done in good time, and that is what the law is for, but to say that we are not going to make it? No. I hope that we can make it, because if it becomes one of the two, we think it is a democratic improvement. Whether it is Mr Grinwis' amendment or the law, it is both an improvement. The sooner the better. So I think we should give ourselves that challenge.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-6.u102	I hear Mr Madlener saying 'I hope we can make it' and 'I think it should be better'. I understand all that, but that doesn't help the parties that are now working on the lists. They want clarity. On paper, we may be able to provide that clarity when they have to hand in those lists, but we need to give them clarity now. All these years there have been secure seats in the waterboards; so can it wait another four years? It's not gonna be four years before that change comes into effect, is it? Whether you're for or against it doesn't matter?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-6.u103	We need to clarify them now. The Minister said what the law is like and when it needs to be clear: when the lists are handed in. People can prepare now. Sometimes you have a risk of something else going on. They know that now, because everyone is following this debate. Is that acceptable? I think so. I think it's too early to say we're not gonna make it anyway. If it's before the summer or right after the summer, so we've heard, that doesn't lead to very big problems. Maybe a few disappointments when a seat disappears, but, frankly, I think that's a bit of an accident.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-6.u104	I hear Mr Madlener standing as a foreman for democracy. Good to hear that today. In my view, it would be just as good to have this democratic process in the First Chamber and to have these initiators there defend their own initiative proposal and to have them in the First Chamber convince the parties sitting there of the usefulness of their own initiative proposal. We have this democratic system so beautifully here. I think that's exactly what we could do here with each other. I wonder if you, as a defender of democracy, do not think that this could be a good thing: let the initiators who convince the parties in the First Chamber, what we have done here in the Second Chamber, convince the PVV to vote in favour of this initiative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-6.u105	Yeah, that's the rules of the game. Indeed, if the amendment is adopted, then what? Then the proposers will have to defend the amendment in the First Chamber. This is still an improvement on the current situation. So how sorry they are, I don't know, I can't speak for them. For us, it is still an improvement on the current situation. Many times in this Chamber you have to be pragmatic and say: let us then opt for an improvement. However, my group must also speak about this, so I can only speak out of my heart and say that I think it is. We still need to hear the comments of the petitioners on how they see it in the Upper House. But I agree with you that it would have been nicer if there were just a majority for the law and if this were also accepted in the Upper House. Then, of course, we have the maximum. But I'm afraid it's not like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-6.u106	Something's going on in my head anyway. What I always enjoy is the interruptions of Mr Wilders when he stands here and Prime Minister Rutte there. The declaration of government and the coalition agreement concerned the nitrogen fund and the climate fund. Then Wilders said, "Dear Prime Minister, are you really going to implement the GroenLinks and D66 agendas in the area of climate?" Where'd you go? Now for my question to Mr Madlener. Look who's in this business. Are you really going to accept the climate agenda of D66 and GroenLinks under the guise of democratisation?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-6.u107	I think this is a bit of a false and misrepresentation of things, and that is a bit disappointing for me. We are talking here about choosing the board of a waterboard. This has all the tasks that the higher and other levels of government command them to do. I call climate legislation: all this affects these administrations. Now you're saying that this little change, namely those few secured seats, is going to matter more or less. I don't believe in that at all. Every board has to deal with things the way they are, whether they are again or about legislation. I think this is a completely wrong idea. So I do not agree at all with what Mr Stoffer is bringing here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-6.u108	Mr Stoffer, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-6.u109	I don't recognize the PVV. I'd just say wake up! Take a very good look at what you're doing if you vote for this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-6.u110	I have tried to make a very clear assessment of how we see it. I have mentioned the interests of farmers and the concerns that farmers understand. I'm really disappointed by a SGP guy. I am not looking at: she belongs to that party or he belongs to that party. I'm looking at the contents of something that's in front of me. I'm here to improve our country and our governance. I'm not gonna do that on the basis of: I'm gonna rule out that party. I'm not like that, Mr. Stoffer. I think it's a very difficult question, but I don't feel touched by this. I cannot speak for Mr Wilders, but I know him very well. We are here to achieve something for our country, together with whoever we can achieve it with. This is far from me.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-6.u111	Thank you, Mr. Madlener. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Goudswaard of JA21.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-6.u112	Thank you, Mr President. I would also like to thank the authors of the legislative proposal for their clear answers. Secured seats fit perfectly with the waterboard board. The debate on this confirms JA21 in the correctness of our approach. All this attention to elections for water boards is derived from real democracy and real influence for the inhabitants of this country. Because where is the influence of our people when it comes to solar parks that force you behind your house? Where is democracy when it comes to wind turbines? They always come, no matter what.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-6.u113	"Elections to waterboards are distracting from democracy." Is that what Mr. Gold Sword says here?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-6.u114	No, absolutely not. Thank you for coming forward, because I find it very special that the spindoctors of D66 could still find time for the frame you recently placed in the AD. I'm talking about waving "it's getting more democratic," but I don't see that at all. If D66 really wanted to do something for democracy, I would say: why did you miss that opportunity, for example with the referendum in 2018? Your party has made sure that the electoral threshold is so incredibly high. I don't quite follow your motivation in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-6.u115	Thank you. You will continue your speech. No, Mr Sneller, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-6.u116	I wrote that piece of opinion myself in the recess. I would like to mention that for the Acts. In my view, in the first term, I made exactly the same accusations to Mr Goudswaard. I continue to find it incomprehensible, but this is, of course, an absurd distraction from the fact that JA21 misses a chance of democratization. Then you can point to everything else. Then I can also point out the lack of any initiative of JA21 in recent times to do anything about our democracy anywhere. There is not a single legislative initiative. I'm not. I'm talking about what's going on here. I think that Mr Goudswaard is saying just in his second term, but he has it in front of him, that it is distracting from democracy, because there are other problems. No, that's a diversion. This bill is ahead of us. We should vote on that. Now you will have Mr Madlener in a moment to weaken this proposal because you are against it. That's how it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-6.u117	That's your opinion. I think this whole proposal is going to solve a non-existent problem. That's how I'm in the game. Emotions have also emerged in this debate. We tried to convince each other. We really see this as a functional board that is currently performing and accounting optimally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-6.u118	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-6.u119	I will continue my speech. Apparent democracy to solve invented problems. You've got to have the guts. This bill is not about democracy. This bill is about removing the obstacles to the development of farms and farms. They are an obstacle to the green agenda. We all know it. The interests, involvement and expert input of a functional administrative layer with secure seats have been of value for centuries. The current situation is fully democratic. Even the cabinet notes that the waterboard administration in its present form stands for an integral balancing of interests. The fact that this functional governance is supported in knowledge and engagement helps. JA21 certainly does not want to put that achievement in the dirt. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-6.u120	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the second term of office. The initiators have indicated that they need about twenty minutes to prepare themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-6.u121	Let me see where the colleagues are. One of the key initiators is not yet here. We also have an arrangement of work at 3.45 p.m. The next item is the second term of the debate on the initiative law of Mrs Bromet and Mr De Groot. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mr De Groot. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-6.u122	Mr. Chairman. I will respond to Mr Grinwis' amendment. There was one sentence that made the authors unpleasant, namely that that amendment was the only way to prevent the secure seats from falling. That makes it an extremely ugly amendment. I will leave it at that, because the democratic process must go ahead, within the rules that we have before it, although Mr Sneller has rightly said that Mr Van der Staaij recently, by a majority of this Chamber, has indicated that we must do such processes as carefully as possible. We have a name to uphold in that respect, if not to improve. The proposers are therefore very much considering this: at the time of the adoption of the amendment, we will very, very, very likely withdraw our own initiative proposal. Mr. Chairman. Having said that, I would appeal to colleagues to vote in favour of the legislative proposal, including to the Upper House. We have listened carefully to the debate on the possible majorities there. But the authors are optimistic about the possibilities of obtaining a majority in the First Chamber. We are also willing to work with the PVV to see how we can achieve that majority. If necessary, and I say this to Mr Madlener of the PVV, we will therefore, as proposers, if that is necessary for a majority in the First Chamber, we think not to look carefully at whether we can change the legislative proposal in the direction proposed by Mr Grinwis. But then we'll do it nicely. Then we'll take it one step at a time. But first, we believe in the bill. With the support of the PVV we have a majority. Together we can convince the First Chamber that there is only one way, namely democratization of the waterboards.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-6.u123	That puts you at the end of your speech? Yeah? I shall now give the floor to Mr Van der Molen, CDA. I would like to give everyone the opportunity to respond very briefly and forcefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-6.u124	Just to get the confusion out of my head. This amendment by Mr Grinwis considers the authors to be an ugly amendment. But, as I hear Mr De Groot say, if we all vote against Mr Grinwis's amendment, then the unchanged bill will go to the Chamber and, if necessary, the proposers will convert the bill so that it looks like Mr Grinwis's amendment to get it through. If that is not an ugly thing, I ask Mr De Groot.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-6.u125	The moment you present an amendment here in the final discussion... Van der Staaij said: do it at first. And yes, Mr Grinwis has announced it from the beginning. But we do have to be careful here. Mr Grinwis's explanation that this is the only way to prevent the secure seat from going down is crucial. That's why it's important to see if we can get through this bill in the First Chamber. If necessary, we're gonna change it. But if we change it and come up with a novelle, then we will do it step by step and carefully, so that there is also a consideration that fits the dignity of this institution.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-6.u126	Finally, Mr Van der Molen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-6.u127	This is the craziest figure I have ever seen in any initiative proposal. The authors now submit to the Chamber that they find a proposal ugly on the substance. It was not about the procedure, I hear Mr De Groot say; the content was ugly. Then the secure seats would be... So it's not about wanting to know sooner. You are telling us that if this Chamber decides to support your proposal, we can end up with something completely different in the Upper Chamber than we are now voting on. Well, that's the madness at the top, Mr. Chairman!
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-6.u128	I do not hear a question, but I do wish to correct on behalf of the authors that it was about the process.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-6.u129	With understanding for the authors and their disappointment at this amendment, which still takes a bit of the essence of the proposal. I understand the disappointment. On the other hand, I see the amendment, even this one, as a major improvement on the current situation. It is also feasible at the next elections. I would be very sorry if the amendment would lead to the withdrawal of the proposal. Then we have nothing. Yeah, we'll see again in four years, but now we have nothing. I would like to ask the authors: if you are prepared to make something similar, then be pragmatic. Well, at least we've got something, and otherwise we've got nothing.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-6.u130	I must say that I appreciate and appreciate the open attitude of the PVV and in particular of Mr Madlener. It's just that we're also dealing with the issue. The bill is really meant to democratize the waterboards. It may be necessary to take that pragmatic step in the First Chamber, but in this Chamber we do not think that is necessary and we can really go for the abolition of the secure seat.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-6.u131	What legitimacy do the initiators, if the House of Representatives has agreed to complete the abolition of the secured seats, go to the First Chamber to apparently amend the initiative proposal there? 'Cause that's what I hear you say. I don't understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-6.u132	I think that was the same question as before.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-6.u133	That is up to the proposers. The legitimacy arises when there is a majority in favour. Then we became co-legislators on behalf of the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-6.u134	Mr. Minhas, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-6.u135	If the House of Representatives has agreed to the bill as it stands, then surely you have no room to bring another proposal to the Upper House? Or haven't I been properly informed?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-6.u136	It's called a novelle. That's not unusual in the legislative process, provided that you do so carefully, neatly, provided that you discuss it with each other and that you get advice.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-6.u137	I really appreciate the authors and understand the disappointment about my amendment. But I find it really ugly that Mr De Groot calls it "ugly." I really don't think that's appropriate. The current situation, from the point of view of the initiators, is called 0. Their proposal is 100. And my amendment is in between. But it is an improvement, also from the point of view of the initiators, in relation to the current situation. To call it 'ugly' as a qualification, when I brought it into the Chamber in a very orderly manner in the first term, and I have announced that I am considering an amendment to the two points that I have tabled in line with the opinion of the Water Advisory Committee, I find disappointing. That's gonna get us out of here instead of getting us closer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-6.u138	I would like to remind those present that Mr Grinwis has put forward his amendment. That was not the openness of an exceptionally good conscience, I must say. So if this is what this is about, let me also say: who bounces, the ball can expect. There is no other option for us. The proposers want to fully democratize the waterboards. You'll ride your bike through it. It's a fine structure. Well, you know something about it, too. So I'd say we don't agree on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-6.u139	Finally, Mr Grinwis.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-6.u140	Let that be said: we do not agree on that. My hesitation was that, of course, I would prefer to leave the initiative proposal entirely to the proposers and vote for it or against it. But I think the substance is just a deterioration. And we have the instrument amendment, even in the case of an initiative proposal, to improve it. I have used this instrument, also in view of the political situation which was very clearly visible in the first period. It is an extremely careful amendment and also an extremely careful compromise in the continuum between the current situation and, let me say, the ideal situation according to the authors. It's been noted.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-6.u141	I don't know...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-6.u142	I don't hear any...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-6.u143	I hear that legal support has referred to the amendment as 'destructive'. That's what I want to say here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-6.u144	I'd really like to take a break for Grinwis and his amendment. I think it is a very nice amendment. Next, when I hear how the initiators want to deal with this towards the First Chamber, I would say that to Mr Madlener I think that is a very nice indication of how GroenLinks and D66 deal with democracy and how they try to interpret the word 'democracy'. Just so you know.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-6.u145	I don't hear a question in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-6.u146	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mrs Bromet. And then there is also a motion which is still being given an appreciation by the Minister. I give the floor to Mrs Bromet.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-6.u147	Mr. Chairman. One last word from the initiators. When will the Chamber meet for hours and hours on democracy? We did. I really enjoyed it. I actually think that everyone, although their views are diverse, has done the same. It really was a different debate from all the other debates we are having here. I really enjoyed it from minute to minute. It's not over yet. It's unbelievably exciting how it ends. While we know very often here in the Chamber how things are going to turn out, we do not know that now. But I think it is a good thing that we have at least talked about this and that it has become clear that there are different interests in a democracy, not only in the waterboards but also here in the Lower House. I am extremely grateful to my staff for the support we have received. That's what I said at the beginning. I would also like to thank the Minister for his open advice to the Chamber. We're gonna see how it ends.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-6.u148	Thank you. There is still a response to these foundative words. I actually liked it; bow for it and forward to the minister. However, that is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-6.u149	I get the points. I also congratulated you in my first and second term. We always do that because of the good collegiality. It's supposed to be. However, at the end of this debate, I had a really strange taste. I would like to refer that to the second author of this proposal. I've just been looking at proposers who made the next construction. An amendment has been tabled. The authors of the bill find that an ugly amendment. Mr. De Groot said if you vote for the amendment, we're done. He said on your behalf, "We'll just stop." But, your co-initiator said, if you don't vote for the amendment, we're going to go to the First Chamber, and to get it through the First Chamber, we're going to propose what's in that amendment. Now I'm a Member of Parliament. If you vote for the law now, you will all know that you will get the amendment. That's the deal you want to make with the First Chamber. This Chamber may therefore vote in favour of your proposal, while you withdraw your proposal to the Supreme Court. I'd like that. At the moment when we think that we are helping them by adopting the amendment, so that you can get to work in the First Chamber without a threshold, then you will quit. Did I give you a good summary, Mrs. Bromet?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-6.u150	We're gonna listen to Mrs. Bromet.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-6.u151	I have tried to close this down a little bit. I would like to say to Mr van der Molen: it is about the content, but also about the process. It's constantly getting mixed up. We have objections to the trial. Our ambition is, I hope, that it has become clear to abolish the secure seats. We also have, hearing all the input, a narrow majority for that. We don't know what that's like in the First Chamber. The First Chamber looks at other things. The First Chamber also looks at how a law has been created and whether it is well constructed. The First Chamber not only makes a substantive assessment, but also assesses whether it is a good law. She wonders: can we get out of our way in the Netherlands? There is an existing instrument, de novelle. All we have said here is that we will use all the instruments. If necessary, we will use the instrument of the novelle. I hope none of that is necessary. Like my colleague, Mr De Groot, I am confident that parties who are not here may also consider it very important that the waterboards become fully democratic. We'll see how that works out. We're not gonna do things that aren't supposed to. We do everything according to the procedures. But I would be very happy to make a distinction between the content and the process. That is something that both of us, GroenLinks and D66, you will always have to give us. We consider sound legislation to be crucial.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-6.u152	Mr Van der Molen, very briefly, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-6.u153	At least this has been the debate of the government. All parties are open. We have had a fantastic debate with each other about something that many people in the Netherlands might not even get out of bed for. The openness of Mr.Sneller, who, together with the PVV, wants to go to the Upper Chamber to see what is to be done in the corridors, we have not seen before. I note, however, that I have not yet seen the openness of the proposers to submit a proposal to the Chamber, so that an amendment which is now being rejected will be an option in the First Chamber. I think you're gonna fall a little bit through the ice after all.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-6.u154	Maybe that's part of the new governance culture.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-6.u155	A majority in this Chamber wants more democracy in the waterboards. That seems quite feasible now. It is not entirely in line with the initiative proposal. It's gonna die in the First Chamber. There's an amendment now. That leads to resentment; I understand that. However, I would like to ask that this week, perhaps, you and the proposers will sit down and make something together, so that it is acceptable for a majority here, but also in the First Chamber. I would think again about that option after a good night's sleep, if I may advise. Maybe we can make a big profit in the next waterboard elections anyway. I feel like it's a shame if we don't do that right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-6.u156	The advice to sleep well on something, I think, is very good advice. That's definitely what we're gonna do. To be continued.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-6.u157	Thank you. Then I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-6.u158	Mr President, thank you. One more motion has been tabled with a request to the government on its entry into force. I said in the first term that we will follow up what the States-General decides, both on the draft bill and on the amendment, so I will give the motion in part No. 14 Judgment Room. I'll tell you two things. One is that I have taken good note of the answer given by the proposers that they seek and expect them to have this bill dealt with in the Upper Chamber before the summer if it is adopted. That is also by far preferable, because for the summer clarity means that we are on a somewhat comfortable timetable on our way to the announcement in the Official Journal by 1 December at the latest. That is important again, because that is the deadline. The lists must be registered on 19 December. These are published in the Official Journal by the Central Voting Office on 23 December. Then the election process really started. If it doesn't come before the summer in the First Chamber, there is actually only one possibility to reach the date of 1 December. That is no later than mid-September, i.e. right after the summer recess, taking into account the procedures for the ratification of the bill by the Council of Ministers and the King, and then for the ratification of the decision on entry into force to be carried out by the Council of Ministers and the King. In parallel, it takes at least nine to ten weeks to adapt the provincial regulations. I'd like to have that factual information reported here as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-6.u159	Thank you. There is another question from Mr Sneller.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-6.u160	Yeah, because there are a lot of different variants of judgment room. The proposers say: we would like this to take place before the next waterboard elections. This motion runs counter to that. I understand that the bill and the motion are left to the discretion of the Chamber, but I should not interpret that as 'we agree with the motion'.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-6.u161	That's exactly right. As a former member of the Chamber, I know that judging chamber usually means fine, go ahead. In this case, it is strictly in the neutrality of the cabinet that we take stock of what the Chamber wishes to find a majority.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-6.u162	Thank you. That concludes this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-6.u163	The proposal is still to vote on the amendment, motion and bill next Tuesday. I thank the initiators for their passionate defence of the initiative law, the support, the minister and the spokesmen. I think it has been a very interesting, sharp and dignified debate. I would therefore also like to thank the spokesmen, the people who have followed the debate in the public gallery and those who have followed the debate in a different way.
