ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u1	We're gonna listen to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to start very briefly with the following. There has already been talk in the numerous Canaans: the land, Europe, is plagued by the plagues of Egypt, one might say. That is also what we are encountering in this debate. We are in an exceptional situation: the world was first struck by the pandemic, which still prevails, then by the war in Ukraine, with all its consequences, and then six packages of sanctions were declared, leading to far-reaching economic consequences, including for our country. Why do I start with that? I am not doing this as a justification for the fact that we would have done too late and too little, as one of the speakers said. On February 24, the raid in Ukraine took place. On 11 March, as a cabinet, we decided on this package. On 22 March we held the debate with you on this subject. On 29 March we sent a letter on this subject. We immediately sent the bill to the Council of State. Fortunately, the Council of State has dealt with this in an urgent procedure. That came back April 14th. It was submitted to your Chamber on 28 April. I too feel unhappy that we cannot discuss the draft law in peace, but need still breaks laws. We wanted to act in response to the debate on 22 March, which is why we introduced two measures. The reduction in excise duty was already introduced on 1 April and we are now obliged to reduce VAT on energy prices on 1 July. This means that, if we finish this debate and vote on it, we will also have to go to the First Chamber. We will therefore have to take a policy decision on this too. That is not the happy course of events, but it is the exceptional circumstances that require speed on the one hand. I will come back later to the balance between generic or specific. But it's not something that should be the rule. Therefore, we come back with Princess's Day, which asked several speakers to return with the decision-making framework on when, in anticipation of legislation, you could or should not do something. But I would like to emphasise here that it is an exceptional situation. I would always like to be consulted with the Chamber before a measure actually comes into effect. I want to follow the right course of action in the state of law. It's not the first, it's the second package. Yesterday we talked about a possible third package, in 2022. It has been asked whether the Secretary of State wishes to reflect again whether this is a successful package. When we came up with the proposals, we knew that on the one hand we were doing something specific for the group that needs it most. This was about raising €200 in the first package to €800 in the second package. That was very targeted. That's what the bill has yet to be dealt with. The first responsible is the Minister for Poverty Policy, Participation and Pensions. The two measures contained in this bill are indeed generic. That does not affect the group that has the most difficulty with this incredibly high inflation. So that is the group that suffers daily the consequences for purchasing power in the wallet, not only now, but also before. Anyone who points that out should be partly right. If you make a tax reduction, everyone who drives a car will benefit. This applies to people with both a small and a wide scholarship. We did at that time, because it was a measure that could be introduced immediately and had an effect directly on 1 April. But indeed, because of the development of energy prices and yet also of the economic war around energy, this has partly evaporated. The second is as far as VAT is concerned: yes, it benefits everyone. So I understand very well that people are asking: what can you do in 2022? The cabinet of course also said yesterday that the sense of urgency is there. We're gonna look at all the options for that. I particularly appreciate the fact that we are actually looking at that in this Chamber. We had the debate on 22 March, but we also had the letter of 29 March, in which we discussed very comprehensively what we cannot do this year and what we cannot do this year. Sometimes something can be theoretical. The care allowance could be adjusted theoretically in the year, but you will end up in a swamp. Splitting up into two parts of a year might be possible for the systems, but you will all have to recalculate income. You've got to give information about that, too. All in all, we said at that time: it is not wise to do so in this year. Can you do it as of next year? Yes. Can you do that with the rent allowance? Yeah, structuralally. Can you do that with income tax, for example, when it comes to the general tax rebate? Yes. When do you need to adjust the systems? Around the Tax Plan, if we want to, we need to have an agreement on that. Then the wage tax tables can be adjusted, so that systems can be adapted, so that those involved in the wage administration software can adapt them. Under that condition, you can do so on January 1st. Despite this, yesterday's Finance Minister also indicated which options are being reviewed in the short term, in addition to all the options mentioned in the Chamber. I have also understood very well that it is not the intention to include this €500 in the healthcare allowance, but I understand that in any case you have to look at all the care recipients. Then you have to do some rough work and say: if you had a care allowance on July 1st, you will be eligible. Then you don't have to deal with calculating behavior, because that can't happen with retroactive force. How big is this group? That group should then get the 500 euros, this year. It is up to us to see whether this can be done technically, as the Minister said, and how we are going to do it. Are you going to do that in a separate law or are you going to use existing legislation? You're gonna do that through the Social Insurance Bank? You're gonna do that through the IRS?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u3	I welcome this. It also seems to me to be a practical interpretation of this. Does the Secretary of State also say: if that is possible, then so is the cabinet, the 500 euros; then we think that is sensible and then we want that group to offer 500 euros if that is possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u4	Yes. I have now translated it as I understood the idea. Of course, the Minister also said yesterday that you can do it for those who are entitled to rent allowance, although I am not saying that we are going to do it. There is simply the will to do something for the group as described very precisely by Mr Van der Lee, referring to the latest report of the Central Planning Bureau on energy poverty. Those are people who are at a minimum. Those are people sitting at 120%. But those are also people who are just up there, and they're getting hit hardest in the wallet right now. So we will really do our utmost. The question of coverage is then a next question, but if the will is there and you can do it, you will always come out of the coverage question. But yes, that is something of study for the very short term, for the coming weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u5	I think that's wise. We also need to look closely at the performance. In that respect, we should also have a mortgage on the Chamber. So I'm okay with putting those options all side by side. The same applies to the rent allowance, the different dates and the question of who to implement it. All that is fine, but then the cabinet's intention is to make a proposal before the summer to somehow offer a compensation in the order of €500 to the group up to around mode.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u6	Yesterday in the debate it was promised that all options will be looked at and that this will be shared with you before the summer recess. At least that's how I understood it, because the first deadline has been suspended. If you want something, you don't have that much time, because then of course you will have to do it all in the autumn. So yes, I can see for myself that the cabinet comes with clasp-and-ready answers for the summer recess.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u7	I am pleased that this effect will be there before the summer. Do I understand correctly that the interpretation given by the State Secretary to that healthcare allowance variant, which is possibly also mine, is also combined, or is additionally provided with a variant through the rents? And is that it? Or is it going to be a whole series of options?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u8	I think we should do our homework first. Yesterday in the debate, the Minister simply indicated what options there are. There is a very concrete proposal from your side. Of course, we are going to look very seriously at that. What I appreciate in the proposal is that we have looked at the arguments put forward by the cabinet not to do it through the care allowance, but to base it on all those who have a care allowance. That is the proposal. The Minister said yesterday that you can also look at anyone who has a rent allowance. We will come back to that before the summer recess, so to what we will and will not do. In addition, the Minister also mentioned that there is something you can do in the special assistance. There are a number of other examples, but I do not need to repeat what the Minister said yesterday.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u9	Yes, and the second element was that if the will is there, the coverage should eventually be able to succeed. I can therefore conclude that, because this is the current year, if there is a need for cover that could only be covered after 2022 because of legislation and implications, it will be covered in the current year or in a different way. So I can assume that will not be the stumbling block.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u10	That was also a question from Mr Nijboer. Of course, it would be a bit of an absurd discussion if we said that coverage should be found this year. You need to see this over the whole cabinet period. That's our line. Several speakers have asked for this and the Chamber has also been very clear about it with Mr Alkaya's motion. Then where are you gonna look for it? That's what the Cabinet said. We're also gonna look at the ibo report on the power distribution, the capital gains. It is not our commitment to increase the income from labour. That is the starting point. Then cover it. Once you've taken the first step, you can't see one without the other. The amount covered is substantial, i.e. 2.35 billion. Mr Van der Lee and Mr Eppink pointed out that we also have the question of the non-objections. We shall come back to this in the August decision-making process. Then we'll bring a scenario letter to your room. But then you talk about $4 billion at the most, if you wanted to. I have said before that it is between 0 billion and 4 billion. In short, it does accumulate in terms of amounts. But the answer to the question is that we are simply following budgetary rules. If you're gonna do something on the side of the load, you're gonna have to find the solution on the side of the load. For that, you may take the entire cabinet period, so that you don't only look at the year itself, as is actually happening with our coverage proposals in the Spring Note. Mr. Chairman. If you will allow me, I would like to suggest to the Chamber that I do not go into all the other questions that were raised yesterday and which the Cabinet has said will come back to in the very near future. Because then I have to keep saying, with every question, that we will come back to that. But I wanted to put this as a general picture.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u11	I would like to take this opportunity. I'm totally okay with this. I'm also pleased with the line the Secretary of State puts here. If the summer recess chamber is further informed, can the Secretary of State also comment on the coverage that has now been used, namely a windfall in natural gas revenues? Can he comment on the actual costs of this package and the development of that windfall? Because that's not static greatness. Can he also say if there is any remaining space in the natural gas benefits?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u12	Mr Grinwis is always very sharp. I asked this question to the officials the day before yesterday, because it is, of course, entirely justified. It's not a static whole. So we are also taking into account in the letter what the budgetary windfalls are up to now. If we are talking about gas benefits, we are on the expenditure side, but you know that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u13	In other words, the Secretary of State more or less confirmed that it is not intended to increase the burden on labour or consumption. But I added something to that, namely cuts, precisely because the Minister of Finance did not want to exclude them. Does the Secretary of State say that if there is more expenditure, for example because there is a one-off supplement, the expenditure will be cut on the other side? That's just how I understood him, but I hope I misunderstood him.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u14	No, it is not the intention that, if we do something in the sense of the €500, in other words, that is to say, that we are going to come to the expenditure side with a cut-off proposal about 2.35 billion; not that. Yesterday, the Minister did say, referring to the scenarios of De Nederlandsche Bank, that the economy is coming to a standstill. This was also above the press release of De Nederlandsche Bank. The Dutch economy could end up in recession. Then public finances, applying budgetary rules, can come into a situation where there is a need to talk, especially with the increase in interest rates, about cuts in expenditure. That's what the Minister meant yesterday.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u15	My only point was actually that I want to avoid it at all costs. If these setbacks go on for years, I understand you have to look at the expenses at some point. But we have seen in the past that these cuts can cause irreparable damage to the public sector, and I want to avoid that at all costs. I will therefore come up with a motion to the effect that we will not be rushing to think about austerity now, even if we are in recession this year, because next year it may look different again. The damage you do to the public sector if you are going to make rigorous cuts is often irreparable, so we should not do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u16	I think we are also following the normal course of events here, despite the exceptional circumstances. We're getting the Macro Economic Reconnaissance in August. Then we get the final decision in the cabinet on the burden. And then, of course, we come up with the Millions Note and the Tax Plan. I would not like to take an advance on cuts now, but the Minister has made a very realistic observation on the reports of De Nederlandsche Bank. If the Dutch economy is in a recession, it has not said "that" but "if" then of course it also has implications for the budget deficit and public debt. In such a situation, of course, you will face that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u17	The Secretary of State just mentioned the taxation of assets. Something too rigorous is sometimes thought about what kind of ability we are talking about. I tabled a motion along with Mrs Van Dijk some time ago, which was also adopted by this Chamber to really see what kind of capital categories you actually have. You have a big category of pension assets on the one hand. On the other hand, you have business assets, which really need to be re-invested in a company. And besides, you might have some kind of residual category of investment assets, to put it that way. I think this distinction is going to be very relevant to the debates that we are going to have later this year on the possible further lifting of capital. Can I get a bit of a direction from the Secretary of State or, at least, do we have an answer to this question that was raised in that motion before that discussion on property inequality?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u18	As a cabinet, we've been very clear. We have said that we wait first for the ibo report of Laura of Spirit. We are not expected to be responsible for this at the beginning of July. Then the cabinet will have to talk about it first and give an appreciation and then we'll come back to the Chamber. Some data are already known; look at the CBS. There's 1,500 billion in the pension funds. If all these pensions are paid in due course, income tax will be paid. Net is around 800 billion in the home; own house forfait minus the debt. There's 400 billion in box 2 and around 450 billion in box 3. That's the last of the records. Your motion was specifically about box 2 and that there is not only investment capital in it. That's right. There is primarily entrepreneurial power, but there is also investment power in it. You asked me to split that up. In the appreciation of that motion, I have already said that this is a very complicated question. We know that at the time that shares are donated or inherited, because then the company succession facility applies. Then it is important that you show what business power is and what investment capital is. For business capital, you are entitled to that business succession facility and not to the investment capital. We do not have that insight in the corporate tax return every year. I also really want to do management of expectations. We'll get back to that, but there's about 400 billion in box 2.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u19	I thank the Secretary of State for this answer. He says it's a fucking complicated question, and I respect that. But it's also a damn relevant question. If we want to have a good debate on the taxation of capital, we also need to know exactly what is in box 2. To throw all that great power in box 2, that is not the intention; the Secretary of State will agree with me. Then we do not do justice to the discussion either.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u20	Yeah, but I've said before that I agree. Entrepreneurship is enterprise power. Entrepreneurship must be used for the enterprise. This is also reinvested in the company. It creates a lot of jobs. Also in the report of the Central Planning Bureau on the uneven distribution of assets published in March, you see that this definition includes retained profits as income. Well, let's just continue that debate the moment the ibo report arrives. We will respond to that motion as best we can. But in itself it has been said by the cabinet that it is going to look at the taxation of assets. I want to be very clear about that, too. That was said by the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance. Because no matter how you turn it, we are left behind in that area, even in the international states. You can also see in the Spring note a first step towards more balance between the boxes. Mr. Chairman. I have another question from Mrs Van Dijk. She's not here right now, but I'll answer it anyway. She asked her question in response to a message from Nieuwsuur. With all due respect, that has not been discussed in the Cabinet. We're not going to discuss things there either... so be it. The only thing I can say about it is that there was not so much news under the sun, because the coalition agreement says that 2.4 billion will be deployed. Sorry, it was 3 billion. We have now used 600 million of this for the additional elderly discount in the spring package. There is then 2.4 billion left for a reduction in labour income for middle income, i.e. a reduction in labour costs and a reduction in rates. Well, that is what we are going to discuss in the August decision-making process and in the Tax Plan we will come back to that. But that has not been discussed recently in the cabinet. I'd like to have said that here. Mr. Chairman. Then I want to go to the questions about VAT. As I said yesterday, we know 0%, 9% and 21% VAT in the Netherlands. If we call for a reduction in VAT rates on energy from 9% to 0%, I understand that in itself. However, this reduction is contrary to the EU directive. I told you yesterday. Poland has, well, drawn a long nose to Brussels and said: we are doing it anyway, 0%. As a result of the questions that have been asked, can it not be 5%? As President-in-Office of the Council, I would really like to take the initiative of raising this issue at the next Ecofin Council. I think that's important. I will also discuss this with the Secretary of State and the Minister. For there are countries, such as Sweden and Portugal, which are now also submitting requests to the Commission. In the EU, we just have a reversal in corporate taxation: the race to the bottom is over and we are going to a minimum. It cannot then be that we get a race to the bottom with VAT on energy and on food and on excise duties. I certainly want to sit down with the Belgian and German colleagues on excise duties, because I sympathise with everyone who tells us what the consequences are now in the border region with Germany. On the other hand, the German measure expires on 1 September and Belgium has a measure which expires on 1 October. Yes, more harmonisation would be appropriate. Whether it works is a second.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u21	Thank you for this first handout. That's nice, too. We're also trying to help you. On the contrary, we have not chosen the 5% because only 0%, 9% and 21% were possible; we have heard that from you. So with 0%, I think we'll help you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u22	Thank you for this kind of help, Mr. Mulder, because you'll help me go counter empty. I'm gonna say I'm not gonna do that, and not because I want to be the good boy in class in Brussels. But I take it seriously. I take it seriously in the sense that the need is high, not only in the Netherlands but also in the other EU countries. We should not go to a situation in which each country does its own, and sometimes in conflict with it. We should simply discuss this in Ecofin. That means that at the moment I cannot honour your wish and I must also discourage your amendment on this point, because we are simply not going to do it from 9% to 0% now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u23	Yesterday I heard the Secretary of State and I also heard promises from other ministers, namely that there will be a response and a letter first. So as far as that is concerned, you cannot change your mind within 12 hours. Yesterday, you promised to take a good look at it and come forward with a letter, with all kinds of arguments. So I do not think it would be appropriate to dissuade it today. Let me say it very carefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u24	I understand this question. But we do have this urgent legislative proposal here. This urgent legislative proposal should be strictly in the Official Journal before 1 July. Otherwise we are going to postpone the examination of this urgent legislative proposal on this point. Of course, we can also agree to keep the amendment, but I would also like to do expectations management here. Don't expect too much right now. You are going to get the answer I just gave you in writing. I think that is just fair to say in this debate now, but I do not want to anticipate it. It is not that I am selectively shopping in the questions that were asked yesterday, but we are now dealing with this urgent legislative proposal, which is going to be voted on soon if it is right.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u25	It would be fair if you kept to the agreements you made yesterday, not 12 hours ago, and did not judge until you sent that letter with all the pros and cons.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u26	What I would suggest, then, is that, in anticipation of the overall letter, we should already respond to this very specific point, otherwise we will have to continue to deal with this bill. So you will be given the answer to the proposal in writing from 9% to 0%. The same applies to those who have proposed going from 9% to 5%.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u27	Then I don't get it. The Secretary of State starts with a whole story that he goes to Ecofin to talk about it. Before he goes, apparently he's gonna say whether or not he can. If you say in advance that it is not going to happen, it is not so tough what you just said, namely that you are taking our suggestion seriously and going to the Ecofin to discuss it. It's one or the other, I guess.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u28	No, it's not one thing or the other. This proposal is due to enter into force on 1 July. You don't want to go from 21% to 9%, you want to go from 21% to 0%. That's not gonna work on July 1st. That Ecofin is on 12 July. I would like to raise the question at Ecofin, listening to this Chamber and also to your plea, which is possible. Because the EU directive forbids going to 0%. I've said that a few times.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u29	If the Secretary of State considers an EU directive more important than killing people in the Netherlands, then the EU, Brussels, is an even scarier club than I ever thought.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u30	Mr Mulder knows as well as I do that an EU directive... You cannot agree with it. You may want to leave the EU, but as long as we are not, we are dealing with the EU. The EU Directive is of a higher legal order. We have a decent country to live up to. You can't just deviate from that one-sidedly, which Poland does. But that's Poland. It does so often, also in other areas, but we in the Netherlands do not.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u31	I think that's a big deal. I'm sorry to go through with this, but it's kind of a follow-up to what was promised to everyone last night. At that time, my group chairman specifically asked for this up to two or three times, and this was promised; that is why I will continue. But first of all, I think it is a great deal that you are implying here that Poland is not a decent country. I think it's very daring that you do. Secondly, not only does Poland, but you also want to reach 0% for certain groups, for fruit and vegetables.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u32	That is allowed on the basis of the directive.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u33	But if that's all right and it's all right for solar panels, then we can do this, right? This is not something for the next 20 years; this is temporary for six months because there is need. That's why other people do it. Everyone here in this room is shouting that there is a problem in the Netherlands. That is not a problem of a few promille, but really a problem with large groups of Dutch people who get into serious trouble. The Nibud just announced, an hour ago, that not 1.2 million households but 2.5 million households are in serious trouble. If all this is the case, then surely it is not such a story, it is for six months because it was once put on paper by Brussels? Then you must stand up for the Netherlands and the Dutch.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u34	I understand your plea, but I want to be clear on this point, in the sense that we are dealing with the existing EU directive. We deal with all options, but we do have the reality of this bill. Of course, it would not be good if I were to speak to you with a mouthful of flour and suggest that instead of going from 21% to 0%, we should move away from the fact that this means budgeting and the balancing or such a measure will then end up with those groups that a large part of the Chamber says we should do something about it. So, taking into account existing EU legislation, I would like to point out to you that we cannot do that at the moment. We are also going to confirm this to you in writing. In this case, I would like to confirm this in writing as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u35	I think I've heard you five times now, Mr. Mulder. It's been really nice.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u36	But only now...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u37	No, no, I'm adamant. I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u38	Then several speakers, namely Mr Van Baarle, Mr Stoffer, Mr De Jong, Mrs Van Dijk, Mr Idsinga and Mr Grinwis, also asked: is the reduction of the VAT rate really going to the consumer? I said yesterday in the debate that I will also contact Energy-Netherlands and the energy companies myself. By the way, I talked about 175 energy companies by mistake, but there are 65 of them. You also know that this is socially on the radar, and quite rightly so. The Consumers' Association, of course, also calls for attention to be paid to this. You can also see that the first energy companies will pass it on from 1 July, so that is possible. But I want to know from all the energy companies how they do it. I also think it is more than a moral duty on the part of the energy companies to be quite transparent about this. Do you always get 100% warranty? No, I will, of course, also discuss this with EZK's colleague, who is also responsible for ACM. And, of course, I'm gonna put back to the Chamber what my conversations are gonna bring. This is the case with regard to the reduction of VAT on energy prices.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u39	In any case, it is a good thing that the Minister is linked to his discussions, because I was assuming that this consultation had already taken place on the basis of the documents accompanying the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u40	That is true, but there is constant consultation with them. But now it's about butter with the fish.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u41	My first question is then: when does the Secretary of State intend to be able to give feedback on this consultation, on the results and on how this is handled by energy companies? The second element of my question is a question that I believe has been asked by several speakers, namely: what action does this Secretary of State have or what does he intend to take when we see that it does not return to the consumer sufficiently? Does the Secretary of State have any idea about that yet?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u42	When am I coming back to the room? I really suggest that we do that before the summer recess, because then it will be after 1 July. The energy companies must be at least able to say what they have done and what they have not done with it. Then the question is, what can you do and what can you not do? As I said earlier, I will also discuss this with the Minister of EZK, in particular with regard to the ACM. It is not that such a tax measure gives you the legal opportunity to enforce it. I don't have that option, but there are other possibilities through the ACM. So that's what I'm going to come back to. Moreover, I assume that all energy companies will simply pass that on to consumers, as has happened in the case of excise duties, as our calculations show.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u43	In any case, it is good that these possibilities are being studied together with the Minister of EZK, but on this point too, I would like to see a feedback from the government on what possibilities it sees at this point. Could we receive that before the summer recess?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u44	Yeah, we'll do that in the same feedback about what the energy companies did.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u45	Thank you to the Secretary of State for the answer. I actually think that the starting point is that every euro of tax money contained in these packages should return to the consumer one-on-one. I think that's the starting point. If there is any doubt about that or if we cannot legally enforce it in any way, then I think we should go a step further together and see what is needed to enforce it legally. The times are exceptional, the measures are exceptional and the amounts are exceptionally high. What does the Secretary of State need to put a little more pressure on the kettle to ensure that this money actually goes back one-on-one to where it belongs?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u46	On the one hand, we have the VAT reduction and, on the other hand, the excise duty. As far as excise duties are concerned, we have examined precisely whether the reductions are being passed on, also with this increase in energy prices, and this appears to be the case. This can also be seen in terms of revenue, both in terms of excise duty, which is by the way per litre price, but also in terms of VAT on excise duty. When it comes to VAT, I just gave the answer. Yeah, my starting point is also one-on-one, but I'm just being really honest. At the moment, we do not have a legal instrument in tax law to enforce it. If you ask me if I want that instrument in tax law, my answer is that we need to think very carefully about what we are going to do here. What are the consequences, not only in this situation but in other situations, of tax reductions or tax increases? I think it is much more efficient to look at, in consultation with the Minister of EZK, what the possibilities are. You can also see in other countries that this is happening. Other countries in the EU are also looking at maximum pricing or stricter control of pricing and, in particular, at the composition of such pricing. Then you also see what happens to, for example, such a VAT reduction. Once again, I assume, as I have just said in reply to a question by Mr Van Baarle, that I will re-connect at the beginning of July, including what we can and cannot legally do. Let us then continue the debate on this subject. But to start shouting very toughly here 'yes, I'm going to force that for a while', I can't do that right now, and I'm not going to give that answer either.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u47	I get that. I also indicated that you can't give 100% insurance on this point. It is also true that one of the larger energy suppliers announced this afternoon that the bill for a variable contract with this supplier will be reduced by €28 per month, also because of the VAT reduction on 1 July. But that is not automatic; not everyone will do that. The ACM is autonomous. The Minister of EZK also cannot force the ACM to take a firm stance on this issue. What the government can do is to inform the Dutch citizen about how these companies behave and what company charges what price for similar contracts. This is a positive form of naming-and-shaming, but it is important for Dutch citizens. Every day I get people's questions: "What should I do with my energy bill? Who am I supposed to be with? Who has the best deal?" I personally follow it and I cannot follow it all, but it seems to me that it is a task of the government, precisely where the legal instruments are lacking at the moment. Is that something the Secretary of State wants to discuss with EZK and will also report back to the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u48	Yes, just now, to Mr Van Baarle's questions. As I said yesterday, I'm actually going to talk to them personally. You always have frontrunners, people in this case, energy companies that have become known as today, do immediately what we actually expect from them and are transparent about them. Then let that be the benchmark. Then we encourage the others to do the same and share it. Indeed, that seems perfectly clear to me. It is therefore a good thing that we are having this debate and that I also made that commitment to the Chamber. So we will certainly make the information we have and share with you public. Would I also like to discuss this with the Minister of EZK in order to do the same in public information? The answer is yes. This also fits in with a question from Mrs Van Dijk, who spoke at all about the whole of public information, which had not yet come back to it. At the end of June, I thought there was a discussion between the Minister for Climate and Energy and the Minister for Poverty Policy, Participation and Pensions, including with the sector, on this issue. I see Mr Idsinga, who first walked to the interrupting microphone but sits down.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u49	If people want to interrupt, they're really up against the microphone with their noses on. You just don't pay attention to what else they're doing.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u50	Thank you. I remember that from the First Chamber. That's where you had to be very close to the microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u51	Look, at least they had manners there!
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u52	Mr. Chairman. There are a few more questions. In my view, at the beginning of the general introduction, I said something about the budget right of the Chamber. Oh, yes, there is another question from Mr Stoffer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u53	First, Mr Nijboer. Sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u54	No, go ahead. I think it's about tax relief.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u55	Yeah, exactly. Exactly. Then we had the same idea: the tax relief. Mr Stoffer had already asked for this in the debate on 22 March. The question was: can you not do this reduction on the energy tax, say the duty-free foot, retroactively until 1 January 2022? In the letter of 29 March, we gave a comprehensive answer to this question. Technically, it can be done with regard to the Tax Administration; Mr Stoffer has also reminded us of this. However, on pages 10 and 11 we also explain why the current year cannot be done for the energy companies. They often do not work with a calendar year, but very often with 1 July. You also have people who switch halfway. You're in an administratively very complicated situation. I continue to like the idea of tax relief as an effective measure. It's already been applied; it's already elevated. But you could do it on January 1st, for example. If this is proposed on the eve of the reduction of the VAT rate, I am referring to the arguments put forward in the letter of 29 March. Let me put it this way: we are not in favour of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u56	I've got my nose very close to the microphone, Mr. Chairman, so you'll know for sure. I see, of course, the arguments put forward by the Secretary of State, which I have already mentioned in my contribution. On the other hand, we have also seen in recent years that a lot of energy companies went on the bottle, smaller ones. Then something has to be taken over, and so on. That's a very administrative thing, too, but it all works out. And especially energy companies that don't fall over but are still standing up can streamline that more easily. So I'm just gonna have to deal with that displeasure after all. I think you can use this to get the groups that you really want to make it happen. I see the arguments and I also understand that this administrative burden is quite considerable, but that is why I am thinking again. If people have to go out of bankruptcy, all the complicated things can happen, and so on. Then, in my opinion, the situation is actually even more difficult administratively. It's possible. So I think energy companies that are just standing up, who have good administration, should be able to do that. We do not agree on this, but at least this shows where I think I am. I'll bring it up here again. I agree with the Secretary of State's view, but I consider it different. I would also say that the effect it has on people should outweigh the effect it has on energy companies. I estimate that even if I repeat it a hundred times here, the Secretary of State and I do not agree on this. So, yeah, we'll just put that in the middle.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u57	I appreciate Mr Stoffer's persistence. I didn't expect anything else either. It will indeed be many times around the walls of Jericho. We are not going to convince each other on that point either. Nor do I think it would be wise, where it has already become known today that the energy companies are going to pass on the reduction via the advance. Then we should say now: we are going to do it through the tax reduction. But once again, I understand Mr Stoffer's reasoning very well. Let us also bear this in mind for the purchasing power debate that we are going to have later this year, about 2023 and beyond. Mr. Chairman. That was one of the questions that had remained or which I had yet to answer. Mr Grinwis had another question. So much tax incentive policy, that might further drive inflation. Does the Secretary of State see that risk, too? A study carried out by the CBS shows that generic measures, such as the reduction of energy taxes and excise duties on fuels, have dampened inflation by 1.3%. The VAT reduction on energy will have an additional dampening effect, but far from enough to offset this insanely high inflation rate. Mrs Van Dijk asked how people are actively informed about existing schemes that support income. What is the current state of affairs in this area? We have just talked about reducing VAT on energy, but more generally, I can say that the Minister for Poverty, Participation and Pensions will present an action plan on money worries, poverty and debt before the summer. It deals extensively with the non-use of facilities. For example, you should think of improving the digital provision of information on the local income provision to which people may be entitled, for example through the Virtual Incomes Loket, the household booklet and De AmenitiesWijzer. Part of this better service is also exploiting the places where people come or engaging those with whom they are already in contact. Those places and contacts can be used for timely reference and guidance to help. However, I cannot go into this now. For this, Mrs Van Dijk must be with my colleague, the Minister for Poverty Policy, Participation and Pensions. Mr. Chairman. I think I'm through with all the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u58	Fine. Then we'll go to the second term. No, Mr Van Haga has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u59	I had asked another question about the price of district heating, which is linked to the gas price. I was wondering what would happen to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u60	Can I come back to that in the second term? I don't have an answer to that question right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u61	Thank you. I have one more question. 35,000 households depend on propane for heating their homes. The prices of propane have also increased enormously. On propane, CH, no VAT reduction has been announced yet. Is the Secretary of State gonna do anything for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u62	I was reminded of this by Mr Grinwis in the debate on 22 March. That's what I communicated separately at the time. I let you know at that time that's what it's all about. It's also under the law. I'd like to confirm that here again. Mr Grinwis had asked for that, as did you. He asked whether it was necessary to table a separate amendment to that effect. That won't be necessary. This reduction also applies to liquid propane.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u63	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u64	Mr Grinwis wants to ask another question. Then we really go to the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u65	I also asked a question about cartel legislation. Did the Secretary of State mention that already? I don't think so.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u66	No, it's true that I haven't gone into that yet. Thank you. I want to make a commitment to that too. I'm gonna talk to the minister of EZK about what we talked about earlier, the ACM. Then I shall also take this point. This isn't in my wallet either. I can have all kinds of good ideas about that, but I'm not gonna ventilate them here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u67	No, let's not. So much for the first term. Thank you to the Secretary of State for his contribution so far. We'll continue with the second term. I would like to give the floor to the first speaker in the second term, Mr Van Baarle of the DENK Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u68	Thank you, Mr President. A word of thanks towards the Secretary of State for answering the questions. The debate has focused on specific versus generic measures. We welcome the reaction of the cabinet, including the proposals made from the Chamber. I think it is the challenge for the coming time to specifically help those who are now really vulnerable, who have a really low income and who are in payment difficulties. Mr. Chairman. The debate has also focused on the reduction of VAT on energy and the ability of the government to ensure that the energy companies also fully benefit the people in the country. The Secretary of State will start the conversation with those power companies. It's important that he does and that he transmits that signal. To help him do that, I'll file the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[expresses the firm's strong commitment towards energy companies to ensure that the VAT reduction is fully beneficial to the people in the country;]] [[calls on the government to transfer this point of departure from the Court to the energy companies,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Baarle.]] [[She's getting No. kst-36088-13]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u69	Mr. Chairman. Then I have a second motion. I have hardly heard the Secretary of State in his reply about fuel prices, about the current situation with Germany, about the fact that the reduction made by this State Secretary has already completely evaporated, and about the fact that prices are moving again until a new record is reached slowly but certainly almost again. We need to do something about that now. My question to the Secretary of State was whether he is prepared to do something now, to reduce excise duty to ensure that people have breathing space again. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to come forward with a proposal to substantially reduce the excise duty on fuel,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Baarle and Mr Van Haga.]] [[She's getting No. kst-36088-14]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u70	You can always do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u71	Are you ready?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u72	Yeah, I always have to give voting advice. Mr Van Baarle did not say anything, not even in his first term, about the coverage of this proposal. I know what Mr Van Haga wants, but I am particularly curious to see what he sees as covering this proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u73	A fair question from Mr Van der Lee. We have also tabled an amendment. That is where we found cover in the funds released for the Growth Fund. As far as we are concerned, cover for this could be found in, for example, an increase in bank taxes or an increase in the profits of large companies. In that context, you could see it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u74	Thank you. Then Mr Van Haga of the Van Haga Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u75	Mr. Chairman. First of all, thanks to the Secretary of State. So you can see that a debate can suddenly go smoothly and efficiently if there is a ruler who simply gives a brief and concise answer to the questions. I appreciate that very much. My question on district heating will be answered in the second term. Then I have two more motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that excise duty on petrol and diesel has been higher than that of neighbouring countries for years;]] [[Whereas this has a detrimental effect, inter alia, on pumping stations in the border regions;]] [[calls on the Government to examine whether excise duty on petrol and diesel can be brought more into line with that of neighbouring countries,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas energy is a first need for life;]] [[calls on the Government to maintain the VAT rate on energy at a maximum of 9% after the end of the purchasing power package,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga and Mr Van Baarle.]] [[She's getting No. kst-36088-15]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Haga and Smolders.]] [[She's getting No. kst-36088-16]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u76	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u77	Thank you. Then Mr Eppink of the JA group21.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u78	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have no further motions. I just haven't heard an answer to a question I asked, but maybe I missed it. That was the Secretary of State's comment on the generic measures, which we can understand. The question was whether he could respond to the concerns expressed by the Council of State in terms of efficiency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u79	Thank you. Then Mr Stoffer of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u80	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Secretary of State for answering the questions, but I am somewhat critical of this law. So how we are going to vote later on, I really need to discuss this in the group. That's what's in the VAT cut, which we didn't get out of the interruption either. That's tricky. The Secretary of State mentioned the walls of Jericho. I won't go around it seven times, because I wouldn't like to see this Secretary of State fall apart. For that, I have far too much appreciation for him as a professional in that place. We should have that much more. I will leave it at that in terms of content. Mr. Chairman. I have one motion. I'm not sure I should file it, but I'll do it. If the Secretary of State says 'that's exactly what I appointed', then as far as I am concerned, takeover is also excellent. But I'm filing the motion to make sure. It's like this. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that the Supplementary Tax Purchasing Power Act 2022 spends more than EUR 2 billion on compensation for increased energy and fuel prices;]] [[noting that no evaluation of the measures is foreseen and that the effects on prices are not monitored;]] [[Whereas the amount of compensation should be spent efficiently and effectively and should, as far as possible, reach households that really need it;]] [[calls on the Government to monitor the impact of the measures as closely as possible, including in any case how purchasing power measures fall among the different income groups and how excise and VAT reductions are reflected in consumer prices, and to inform the Court thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Stoffer.]] [[She's getting No. kst-36088-17]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u81	Thanks.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u82	Thank you. Mr Edgar Mulder from the Group of the Party for Freedom.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u83	Mr. Chairman. I see I only have two and a half minutes. Before I start my second term, I would like to make a comment on the discussion we have just had. It was promised last night that all the proposals would be appreciated by letter before the debate, so I assume that the Secretary of State will look not only at the coalition's proposals but also at the opposition's proposals. As far as that directive is concerned, there is a directive in Europe, 105, which opens the way for the Netherlands. You should then look at the fourth sentence. Apart from the fact that the Secretary of State may not advise against it, he has probably been far too early, as Article 105 makes that possible. Mr President, I shall now begin my second term. No one here today has refuted the PVV's arguments. Everyone says we're in trouble in the Netherlands. All the parties here today have declared that they want to do something. The PVV comes with three good proposals, all of which are covered. But suddenly something weird happens. It's getting quiet and there's not gonna be any support. That's weird. If there is a problem anywhere in the world, such as famine in Africa, then on the same day the planes go with help that way. When it was found this week that Ukrainian refugees in the Netherlands are not so broad, it was decided without any discussion and without consultation that there would be surcharges for these people. Somewhere yesterday it was decided that Italy and Spain, which we have already saved 100 times, need help again. All this happens on the spot, with the support of the Netherlands. But if Dutch people are in trouble, then suddenly they can't. Then we're gonna need heist sessions and investigations. We do everything for everyone in the world and there is 108 billion for nitrogen and climate. Then it can't be that we're not doing anything right now to help the Dutch who are in serious trouble? I hope that this Chamber, the Secretary of State and the Government will change their views and support us in the course of the debate on the Spring paper. It's covered. The proposals are there. The money's here. Let's help the people in the Netherlands. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u84	Thank you. Then Mr Alkaya of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u85	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Secretary of State for answering our questions. I have one more motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that reductions in charges to reduce purchasing power also lead to lower revenues for public authorities;]] [[noting that the Alkaya motion for a resolution on not raising the burden on labour or consumption, despite a vote against only the VVD, was adopted by a large majority and carried out by the Cabinet in the spring paper 2022;]] [[calls on the government not to increase the burden on labour or consumption in 2023 nor to cut public services for budgetary reasons,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Alkaya.]] [[She's getting No. kst-36088-18]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u86	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I thank the Secretary of State for his clear answer. I asked another question about travel expenses. I asked him whether he could make one or two cents, whether he could not do it much sooner and better and whether he could not do it a little more next year. That is not really in the package yet, but perhaps it can be taken into account as one of the options that are being considered. Mr. Chairman. We're a little ahead of schedule today. I don't know how many debates we needed before we got the dividend tax off the table, so it's not always settled here in one day. I found the Secretary of State sympathetic to the €500. He responded one more degree than the cabinet yesterday. At least that was my aftertaste. So if it's possible and if it's covered, the cabinet intends to pay out that $500. That is what I think is profiting from this debate. I do not have any motions on this, because it was also debated yesterday. I see it with great interest and yet with some confidence, not so much for myself, but for all those people who will see it getting colder in the autumn, who will have to turn the heating up, but do not have the money for it. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u87	Thank you. Then Mr Idsinga of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u88	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have a motion on the border effects in a moment, and I have another appeal to the Secretary of State. The Secretary of State has already met me somewhat, because he is going to look very closely at the prevention of these effects and the fact that these tax revenues must end up one-on-one with the citizen. I would like to make another appeal: please take everything out of the closet to make sure that it actually happens. If it requires emergency legislation or other measures, then we really need to take a very serious look at it. Because the amount is too high and the problems in this country are too exceptional. Then there's the motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the temporary reduction of fuel excise duty in Germany, which goes much further than the temporary reduction of excise duty in the Netherlands, makes it financially interesting for more and more Dutch people to refuel in Germany;]] [[Whereas people often combine filling across borders with other purchases such as groceries;]] [[noting that this leads to less turnover for gas station operators and retailers in the border region and less revenue from excise duties and VAT for the Dutch Treasury;]] [[calls on the Government to identify these impacts, to examine the possibilities for strengthening alignment with neighbouring countries and to examine the overall price difference for fuels with neighbouring countries,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Idsinga.]] [[She's getting No. kst-36088-19]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u89	Thank you, Mr President. I didn't bring a long motion or even a short one. So that's a fluke.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u90	Are you all right?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u91	Yeah, things are getting better, Mr. Chairman! Thank you to the Secretary of State for his proper response. Many people in the Netherlands skate on thin ice and we want no one to fall through the ice. The honest story is that it's hard to really get that done. But this bill contributes to that. I have listened to the debate in such a way that it is also the intention of the cabinet and the commitment of this Secretary of State to prevent people from sinking through the ice later in the year, especially when the winter starts again and energy demand increases, even considering the CPB's research, in which scenarios are outlined. If the darker scenario, which is becoming more realistic, is also going to happen, then 1.2 million households simply cannot afford it anymore. Mr. Chairman. I wish the Cabinet wisdom and speed to get this done properly and quickly. It must then be carefully examined in the Chamber so that, without recourse to Article 2.27 of the Compatibility Act, we can come to an orderly decision-making process, which indeed means that as few households as possible will sink through the ice this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u92	The last speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mr Van der Lee van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u93	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As you can see, I have no motion on me.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u94	It's a pleasure for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u95	Thank you. Many thanks to the Secretary of State, who, as we are used to now, gives clear and clear answers. I appreciate that very much. He is also clear in the recognition that this second package is not very targeted. He was honest about that, too. We have criticised the fact that it was not targeted enough in the autumn and in this package, and I hope that three times is the charm. Like Mr Nijboer, I also have the clear explanation of the €500, which the Secretary of State is working on over the next few weeks, courage that we can take another important step forward for those people, many of whom had already fallen through the ice in September, especially at the bottom. They haven't all got the €800 yet, and that's not enough for them either. They're gonna get in more trouble if they don't. That group has grown even further with people who have more to a mode of income. It is therefore quite right that there is a great deal of attention to this. I would also ask the Secretary of State how he is going to plan the changes agreed on in the field of energy taxes, which are more structural in nature, all these discussions and perhaps even later adjustments in August, in such a way that we can ensure that these structural adjustments are made and not partially frustrated by the desire for sudden measures, which, frankly, are not sufficiently levelled and directed but can have a distorting effect on the transition, on how we intend to organise energy taxes for the future. That is what I am very curious about. I am going to speak in the group for a moment, but I wish the Secretary of State every success in what he has to say in the coming weeks. I also welcome the commitment on energy companies. I think it is very important that we have an insight into this and that it becomes transparent, for every Dutchman who has the choice at different times in the year: to whom do I enter into a contract under what conditions? Then it is very important to know which company fully passed that reduction on to the customer and which company did not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u96	Very good. So much for the Chamber's term. I'm gonna suspend for ten minutes and then we're gonna listen to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u97	I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u98	Mr. Chairman. A number of questions were asked in the second period. I would like to deal with that first. Then I'll give you an appreciation of the motions. And I can assure you that there will be a letter on all the amendments that have been tabled. To Mr Van Haga's question, I replied that the reduction in the VAT rate from 21% to 9% also applies to butane and propane. That is not the case, because it does not fall within the definition of the Gas Act. It is true, however, of the reduction in excise duties. So I want to correct myself in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u99	Then it will be interesting, because why wouldn't those 35,000 households burning on propane receive the same treatment?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u100	We follow the definition of natural gas in the Gas Act. That is so linked, also for VAT. That is the answer, and then there is a difference between those two categories. That's the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u101	That's very technocratic. I also understand the difference between methane, ethane, propane, butane and so on, but the fact remains that these 35,000 families will not be treated equally. So I'm not sure what to do now. Will I be able to table an amendment or a motion for a resolution on that, of course, and that you will be sympathetic to it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u102	I'm not going to agree to the latter, so I'm going to agree, but I see the point. I'm gonna think about how we might solve it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u103	But do you invite me to table an amendment, or...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u104	You can always table an amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u105	Well, that's possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u106	Yes. Well, I guess I should. In any case, I see the goodwill and that is a great deal, because these 35,000 consumers now have huge energy bills.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u107	We're gonna do our best to see if we can help.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u108	It can be submitted to the votes, but if you also want an appreciation from the Secretary of State, you need to do it faster. That's up to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u109	Mr. Chairman. Then there is Mr Nijboer's question about the unpaid travel allowance. That costs 130 million per cent; so does Mr Nijboer. He made a plea to raise it to €0.30. Well, we're going from €0,19 to €0,23 in two steps. So every penny up there costs 130 million. We did not propose it as a cabinet in the Spring Paper and we do not intend to do so. However, we would like to see whether this will be used in the future. That was also mentioned yesterday in the debate. That's really up to employers and employees. That is the answer to Mr Nijboer's question. Mr Mulder referred to Article 105 of the VAT Directive. I would nevertheless like to refer to Annex 5 to the letter I sent to the Chamber on the fiscal legislative and policy agenda. It really is all about this problem and it simply shows that it cannot be done now. So I do not want to repeat moves, but I would like to continue the debate. I have also said that I would like to raise it in the Ecofin context and also in the neighbouring countries. Then Mr Eppink had the question of whether I should like to comment on the Council of State's objections to efficiency. The Cabinet endorses the Council of State's remark that the VAT reduction is partly dependent on the extent to which the benefit is passed on to consumers, whether in advance or not. We have, of course, discussed this extensively in the first period. I have also expressly stated that I also believe that it should be passed on one-on-one and that I will talk to Energy-Netherlands and the energy suppliers about this. So I thought I had already answered Mr Eppink's question in that sense. But there are questions. We understand that the Council of State has come up with this point. It came out of this room, too. If it's all right, you've heard my answer in the first term. Mr President, then there are the motions. The motion in part No. 13, by Mr Van Baarle, we would like to give a ruling on Chambers.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u110	The district heating.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u111	Oh, yeah, district heating. Thank you. Indeed, I was still responsible for the answer to the question about district heating. I need a little more time for that. That's not so much on my turf. I really need to talk to the Minister of EZK about that. So first I would like to do my homework well in consultation with the colleague and the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u112	Can we just get a letter about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u113	Yeah, you can. You'll just get a letter about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u114	Yes. Then the motion to part No. 14.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u115	The motion in part No. 14 belongs to Mr Van Baarle and Mr Van Haga. This motion calls on the government to come forward with a proposal to substantially reduce the excise duty on fuel. We dissuade that motion at this time. We are going to talk in detail about the purchasing power package and what we will and will not do when we deal with the Tax Plan. At the moment, we advise against this motion. The same applies to the motion in part No. 15 by Mr Van Haga and Mr Van Baarle. That motion is also not recommended. Then I come to the motion on part No. 16 on the VAT rate at a maximum of 9%. I would point out that it is a temporary measure to go from 21% to 9%, so we also advise against this motion. Then I'll come to the Stoffer motion in part No. 17 in terms of efficiency. I would like to make one comment on that. We are going to do our utmost to monitor this as accurately as possible, but of course we are dependent on the information, including on Energy Netherlands and public sources and often work with averages. With this addition, this motion gets judgment Chamber. The motion in part No. 18 Mr Alkaya asked the government not to increase the burden on labour or consumption by 2023 and not to cut public services for budgetary reasons. We must first have the Macro Economic Recognition, then the August decision-making and then the Millions Note. I'm not suggesting this motion right now. Mr Idsinga's motion for a resolution 19 is judged by the Chamber, but with the reservation of my part that it is really not possible to map the effect on retail sales of other shops, such as supermarkets and so on, for the whole border area. That's just gonna be a very complicated story. But we're going to do our best to put together what we can find on that in public resources. But we should not have too high expectations of that. We will, of course, start talking to entrepreneurs from the region. I would also like to take advantage of the offer made by Mr Omtzigt, who is not here at the moment, to go to the border region for once.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u116	Then we wish you a pleasant day.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u117	I'm sure we can do that. Thank you for that, by the way. Those were the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u118	Yeah, I think so, too. So much for this debate. Thank you to the Secretary of State for his contribution to this. Thanks for his conciseness, too. Several speakers have already mentioned this. The President is happy to endorse this. It's always appreciated.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-10.u119	On Tuesday we shall be voting on the law, the four amendments tabled so far, and perhaps also on Mr Van Haga's additional amendment. And we're also voting on the motions. So far.
