ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u1	The next item is the continuation of the examination of the Bill 35979, Amendment of the Extension System Act and adoption of the Fourth Extension Duration Temporary Measures Covid-19. We need the government's response in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u2	I give the floor to the Minister of Health, Welfare and Sport.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u3	Thank you, Mr President. It is with great pleasure and thanks for the reception and for the debate just now. When I was appointed Minister, I was already called the new Corona Minister. My direct reply was that I hoped that we would talk a lot about other matters in the coming period. As you know, the challenges in health care are enormous. They are about training, about digitisation, about prevention, about capacity, about coordination and so on. I hope I get to be in your Chamber more often to defend laws. I hope it will be more often about other matters than about corona. But today we're discussing corona. That is quite understandable in itself. This brings me first of all to a brief introduction. We're actually at a special moment in time. In the meantime, we've been working for two years, 24 months. I sometimes say: this is actually the third winter. It looks like we're at a kind of tilting point, a tilting point with most Dutch people of all ages who have built up a form of defense, either by vaccination, with or without a boost, or by having experienced the infection at least once, or by the combination. There's a lot of people who've been through the infection before. In the past period 13% of the people documented as infected had previously documented the infection, and some of them more frequently. So that's another situation. We are now also dealing with a variant that, on the one hand, protects the built-up immune status from. If I'm talking about vaccination status alone, being vaccinated plus a boost reduces the risk of serious illness and hospitalization more than 30 times. That's significant. In addition, the variant in itself, even in people who have no immune status at all, seems less sickening, but that effect is smaller than with vaccination or the previously experienced infection and thus the immune status. That's a good thing. At the same time, we are dealing with very high contagion numbers, which fortunately now go down. That's why there's a lot of people falling out everywhere. You have seen the images: failure and modified timetables of the NS, a modified timetable of the KLM, hospitals and healthcare partners who have problems with it. And we have a situation where the WHO continues to say by the RIVM, by the Scientific Council for Government Policy, by the Academy: beware, we are still not in a stable situation. You have just used the term "endemic" and "endemic" a number of times in the debate. If we accept and define endemicly as a stable situation where you may or may not have a constant pattern of contamination with a certain compliance, then we are not there. It may be that we haven't been there for a while. If you look at the different scenarios of the WRR, for example, a palette is sketched. The first scenario was: completely extinct and disappearance of the pandemic. In the meantime, we have to note that the chances of getting there soon are not great, not even after vaccination. We're not getting there. Another variant, completely on the other side of the spectrum, is: continuous wave on wave of a seriously sickening new variant, where a previous infection and vaccination does not protect against. That is still not excluded, but we do not seem to be getting anywhere with that either at the moment. And variants in between are more or less sickening new variants, each time with a revival and hopefully in a setting where it eventually becomes a fairly normal flu or cold virus. We must realise that, even in the case of flu, large numbers of people become ill every year. Especially among the vulnerable in society, there are large numbers of deaths every year. We have incorporated that as completely normal and adapted our capacity and behaviour to it. The longer the omikron situation lasts, the more likely you will end up in such a setting, but that is absolutely not given at this stage after two years. There may be another variant tomorrow or next month. You know that in the meantime we also have a subomicron, which is still called omikron, but is again different. If new variants are emerging that are spreading faster, then we know that this can happen extremely quickly, really in terms of weeks. The spread and increase in the number of infections can then go by tens of percent per week. We have seen an increase of more than 50% and more than 70% at certain times in the last period. The situation we are now in is therefore relatively stable, also with the desire and the ability to speed up the easing. In this respect, I was very much in favour of speeding up the process of easing the situation. The cabinet has also chosen to do so and to align objectives, not just care and care capacity, but also social and economic objectives. In a press conference, for example, I mentioned a number of times the enormous impact the measures have had on young people, in terms of health, education and so on. So that's the situation now. We really want to hold on to that. However, it is completely unclear at this stage whether you can always stay away from measures other than just advice on washing hands and wearing a mask. If this phase would last a long time and continue in another winter, then at some point you will come with more and more certainty, like: here we are and this will remain it. But it is completely unclear at the moment. With that introduction and against that background, we are talking here about an extension of a temporary law. I'll start with the approach and what we're doing. The first letter I sent was regarding the approach of covid for the rest of this winter. I deliberately said: let us not send a long-term letter. In March, we will come up with the effective long-term approach. We're working hard on that right now. Without going very deeply into the depths, there this is not the setting for.... I will name a few components. In terms of prevention, of course, it is about trying to create a clear programme for possible re-vaccination and boost. This depends, of course, on the emergence of a variant, of the season, of any target groups etc. First of all, the Health Council should advise on this question. It also depends on a kind of second safety net of a medication plan: what means, in what volume, for which specific target group, if any, in which setting? This is all for protection against too serious disease. It depends on the best possible modelling and monitoring. We've learned a lot. The RIVM has a lot, the GGD has a lot and international there is a lot, but can we tighten that up even further? It also depends on cooperation with many parties. In this respect, we have consciously, earlier this week and also together with colleagues, had repeated discussions with many different sectors, such as: what would you do at a certain stage of a pandemic with certain levels of infection and people who fail to make sure that the increase in infections is reduced as much as possible, while at the same time making maximum efforts to keep our society open? For example, just think about ventilation in schools. That way you can actually walk past everything. Finally, of course, it is about care and care capacity. We are also working very hard on this, on the one hand, to optimise the direction of each region and, on the other hand, to ensure that capacity is increased where possible by region. Various aspects of a long-term plan are therefore being addressed. Mr President, excuse the somewhat longer introduction, but it is the whole background setting in which we are now discussing this extension of a temporary law. Nevertheless, we all want to get rid of the Temporary Law and measures. That's also the commitment the cabinet has chosen: is it possible to relax, with a lot of contact with abroad, while you can't really say just on the basis of the Dutch data how sickening that omikron variant is in the Dutch setting? We have chosen, however, I have called it a calculated risk for relaxation, and also in a fairly short cycle. So we want to get rid of it, we want to get rid of it. As you know, as from next Friday, we will only have two measures: the use of masks in public transport and at the airport and the use of tests for access at locations where more than 500 people meet, but where they are not replaced, no need to keep a distance of 1.5 metres and no need to wear masks. Those are the only two measures we have left at the moment. However, as outlined above, I cannot guarantee that there will be no need for further consideration over the next three months or at any time. So, yeah, I get it, but I don't know if just keeping a mask and distance will be enough. I hope so very much with you, but I really have to take it very seriously that there is a chance that it is not, not even in the spring and not even when we do not have any other omikron variant yet. In addition, the motion also puts me in a time problem. As you know, this extension decision ran until 1 March. We still have measures, so that means that we simply had to prepare for a fifth extension decision for the period from 1 March to 1 June. That will be published in the Official Journal tomorrow. The Approval Act will be filed soon thereafter.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u4	Let me ask the Minister. The minister says he's starting with the legal side, but he's going right back to the content of the measures. The measures and the law are actually two different things. By saying that we want to get rid of the Temporary Act, we do not say that we want to get rid of all measures. We just want to get rid of that temporary law. The Minister keeps throwing that at one heap, I see, by saying: yes, but we do need measures. Of course, we need it, but that ignores the legal aspect. Just so we're clear, how do we want it? Does the Minister see that distinction?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u5	Of course I see that distinction, only in the current setting that law offers the umbrella, the framework under which those measures can be. So I do not want to talk about the substance of these measures. I would just like to point out that for the next three months, especially in the transition immediately after 1 March, if we still have a number of measures, unless you and the House of Representatives say that there will be no fifth extension, because then we will no longer have any measures to deal with a situation in which we still have to do something through an emergency procedure.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u6	This is precisely why we have been calling for a very long time to ensure that what might be needed in the longer term is transferred to a regular law and not to enforce that temporary law measures. That was also the reason why we, as SP, said in the third extension, that we would consider what happened in order to transfer it to the next extension. It was also more or less promised that efforts would be made and that what is needed would be transferred. What is happening now is that this Twm must be kept in the air because of these measures, because nothing is being transferred. And the way I am listening to the Minister now, but I would like to hear his reaction, he says: I cannot carry out that motion anyway, and nothing will be in the Wpg for the time being.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u7	If the motion is adopted and there are only general measures to be taken, whether imposed or not, or in an opinion, to keep it as a distance, and it stops about that, then it may be that we will be able to come up with an excellent result for the coming period. But I cannot rule out, like you, that is not enough and we must do something else.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u8	That goes by my question. No one here is saying that you can lift all the measures without any risk. What has been said for a very long time, including with commitments from the previous Minister, is that we are going to see what we can do and we are going to take steps to do so, because we understand that this temporary law must remain temporary. I actually hear the Minister say: yes, but winter, next spring, et cetera, without a parallel path through which things are transferred. That was also my question in the first term. Now that the Minister has brought it up, I would like to ask the following question. Is it a matter for the Minister: it's in the Twm or else there's nothing and then I'm empty-handed? Or does he say: I started the parallel trajectory to anchor in a regular law what we think is necessary, even considering possible variants that are still going to come?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u9	First of all, when I talk about the next winter, autumn, etc., I'm talking about the long-term epidemiological picture that I can't predict. That doesn't say anything about so many extensions of the Twm. Let me get this straight. Second of all, if there's no Twm now, I don't have anything. I don't have an amendment to the Public Health Act until June 1st. I understand very well, I've heard that from my officials, too, that they've been asking for it for a long time, but I don't have it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u10	Let's follow up on that. You don't have it now. What is an interesting question, of course, is whether it is being worked on at all. I think we're looking forward to that. Is a team on VWS making this law? Actually, you're saying that Twm is needed just in case. The last sentence of my speech this afternoon was: temporary laws are not there in case. Temporary laws are in place for an emergency. There may also be a new virus. We don't have a Twm for that either. That may be less likely than a new variant of COVID-19, but that is not necessarily super unlikely. I heard Marion Koopmans say we should be afraid of bird flu, too. We don't have a Twm for that either. That is why the argument from this Chamber has been so many times to come up with legislation that is pandemic-proof, regardless of what virus it is. Again, you don't have a temporary law "in case." "In case" we need pandemic-proof legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u11	I hear the signal very clearly and I understand it. Only, as I've already indicated, I don't have anything right now. What I do see, also in the situation I found at the ministry the moment I started, is that there has been a lot of hard work on the here and now for a very long time. This included the whole cycle of the next extension and the next extension. You realize what kind of cycle that is. I find myself in that dynamic, too. I have been here for several weeks now, and I have, if I may include this debate, the fifth Corona debate, plus three press conferences, plus I do not know how many things had. That's the cycle and dynamics the ministry is in. I'm incredibly busy trying to turn that cycle into something more long-term. In the past period, the idea has been very strongly focused on a final, real adaptation and a new Wpg. Then we need an OVV report and the evaluation of the Security Regions Act. So that's really something in the long term. The thought that exists now, especially with these discussions, which are completely understandable, is: can't you come up with an intermediate form, while taking the time for that long discussion, which really needs to be there, but which needs to be thorough and takes a lot of time?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u12	Then, of course, we are curious about the answer to that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u13	I think it's possible, but I really need a little time to do that. I don't have it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u14	I also hear the Minister say that he is aiming at a law that regulates this in the long term. It is just the question: what is being arranged and for what, and why should you lay this down in a law in the long term? Because what are we talking about? We are always talking about measures to restrict fundamental rights. They are now temporarily restricted, with a temporary law. Now I hear a lot of parties in this Chamber asking for this fundamental rights restriction to be permanently possible in a law. Is that the intention of legislation now? How does the Minister look at that goal? Is that supposed to be an end in itself? We will then have another discussion, because we are talking about a fundamental rights restriction that is enshrined in legislation. Otherwise, you won't need that legislation. All other measures can also be taken without legislation, and only specifically for this fundamental rights restriction has this law been enforced. Do I fully understand the Minister's reaction to the speech made here by several Members of Parliament in order to be able to limit these fundamental rights in a definitive, permanent law? Is that the direction the minister wants to take?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u15	Mr Van Hattem and I absolutely agree that the restriction of fundamental rights is not an end in itself. What this is about is whether there should be any possibility of taking public health measures at the time when a pandemic situation in this case calls for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u16	But then we're actually kind of in a like-dance discussion. If there is a pandemic situation, then suddenly legislation must be put in place permanently. We don't know yet if that pandemic situation is developing. There are now many examples that could arise. Now, something that was in a temporary law as a temporary emergency measure is actually being pushed forward, namely a temporary restriction of fundamental rights, in a permanent status and on the basis of permanent legislation. We've never had such a law before. Then you get the situation that this temporary law is being transferred into a permanent law. How can we guarantee, then, is my question, that that is not going to happen one-on-one? How does the Minister view this? I'm curious about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u17	That's where you're at. That's not a silly answer, but you're there yourself. In the simple situation where public health can ask for measures, it can be that, as in fact... Then we turn the clock back two years. You have also read the OVV report and you have read in it that the Netherlands was not really prepared for this, for all kinds of reasons. If you want to do something in that preparation, you must also have certain legal frameworks for that. And of course you can have all kinds of checking on that, for example on what cases you can apply it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u18	In the OVV report to which the Minister refers, something we have also mentioned from the beginning was here in this Chamber: the timing of the measures was often wrong. I think it didn't have so much to do with the emergency law what went wrong. The problem was, in particular, that the situation, which has always changed, was not adequately assessed. But I just heard the Minister say: we're gonna need this law for a while, because you never know. That is precisely what our group warned against when that emergency law was introduced. How are we ever gonna get out of this? Because every minister, including your successor and his successor, will say, "Yes, it is useful to have, because you never know." That is the whole problem, and that is why we need to get rid of it now! We have learned collectively, as a political, as a country, as a population, from these last two terrible years, I might add. If there is to be a new variant or a new pandemic, then there is also a real speedy way of making adequate legislation in politics.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u19	Your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u20	The question is: when does the Minister foresee that this temporary law will be repealed? Because as we know, temporary measures take the longest. I can see that again in the Minister's speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u21	As I indicated in my introduction, I outlined a little bit of the situation we are in right now. We are in a decline with a currently dominant variant where the current vaccination status is well protected against. That's the situation now. I can't predict what the situation will look like in a month from now or two months from now. I know that in the current setting we are relaxing very quickly, but from next Friday we will still have a number of measures. We need a framework for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u22	That is all very clear. There will always be a risk that something new will show up, but at some point you have to say that the restriction of fundamental rights on the basis of this temporary law is so drastic that we will increase the risk of that happening. Should that happen, we can solve it in new legislation or in another way. Because let's be clear about this temporary law. Very big problems were the slow vaccination strategy and the booster that came too late, which resulted in the excess mortality at the end of last year. This legislation is therefore not sacred. I repeat my question to the Minister. Assuming that no new variants are emerging for a few months now and that this pandemic is coming to an end: when does the Minister see the time come to repeal this emergency law, which disproportionately violates fundamental rights?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u23	I think it is wise to separate two things: the law as a coat rack that makes it possible to take measures, also measures which then need to be discussed and discussed in detail and on which it is also advised, and the actual implementation of the measures. I have already outlined what we have done with measures in the past period and what we will do from next Friday. In practice, then, there are two measures left over from the overall package of possibilities set out in the current law.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u24	Finally, Mr Otten.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u25	I note, however, that the Minister does not want to mention the expiry date for this temporary law, even in the event that corona disappears. This gives us great concern that temporary measures are indeed going to last the longest. That is a sad observation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u26	I'm just gonna take over the stick in another way. We now have the coat rack in the shape of the Twm. If it were not to be extended, I would understand the Minister, then we would fall back on the right, if there are no alternatives. I see the Minister nodding. So we need to look ahead in particular. I hear the Minister say: you should not do that too quickly, you really should do it well and properly, because it is about final measures. Is there a term to be given? What studies are still awaited, for example? Is society still going to... What do you call it when everyone gets to think along and stuff? Are we talking about six months, one year from now, one and a half years from now? What deadlines should we consider before there is a more permanent arrangement?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u27	I understand very well and see in one and a half months the dynamics that this brings with it of three months of extending a temporary law which also seems very difficult. I just called it a coat rack. We get all kinds of terminology from the toolbox and I add the coat rack to that, with an apology. At that point, maybe you didn't use any of that coat rack. That is difficult to explain, even to a general public, but in the uncertainty I name and here in a discussion with you: if you do not do so and you do something, then you come to emergency procedures. The evaluation and really a final long-term adaptation of the Public Health Act require a thorough discussion with many parties. You haven't done that in a year. In the same year, you and I are not going to talk four more times about extending a temporary law for three months each time, regardless of whether that time limit can be shortened further; I will come to that later. This means that I have to work quickly with my colleagues to do so with a form of what I would like to call an interim law.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u28	Thank you. At least that gives me more insight. I thought we'd keep the coat rack until there's permanent legislation. But we're working on an intermediate form right now. Could you give us a little more insight into it when we're going to receive that intermediate form?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u29	These are really the reflections of the past few weeks. So I'm afraid to tell you yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u30	During the discussion we come back to new points. Now another law comes out, which in itself might not be such a crazy idea at all. Here's what I want to ask the Minister. We are talking about the violation of fundamental rights. The temporary law already contains all these powers, without us being able to get them. The Lower House can do something against the implementation of these powers, but the powers themselves are already there. It's widely shared. Look at Mrs. De Boer's motion. In a democratic state governed by the rule of law, it cannot go on like this and the First Chamber will have another three days to talk about an extension that has already been completed. That really needs to stop sometime. I understand from the Minister's words that he says: I look around and I see that this dynamic has taken so long that we have not yet come to a fundamental revision of the Wpg. The Minister says June, but I actually hear him say that in a year's time we may not have anything. I can imagine. That's one. Two. You're saying there's another variant that can just show up. But we also have the avian flu, for example. There's evidence that if that avian flu is contagious at some point from human to human, we're talking about a mortality rate many times higher than that of covid. We don't have anything for that either. So it's really working blown.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u31	What's your question, Mr. Nicolaï?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u32	My question is: how long can such an interim law be achieved? Where the pain is, here's what's going on. You could imagine that those powers lie dormant in a law, and that they should first be activated by, for example, parliament. Then you already have an intermediate phase, but if those powers arise, then the parliament matters. That is not the case at the moment. So that's what I'd like to ask the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u33	I'm really gonna give the Minister the floor right now...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u34	Is there a view of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u35	... because this is going to be a third term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u36	Thank you. If I could just sketch it out for you, without taking anything off of it. In the first weeks in which I started, the plans were already ready to offer a plan for the rest of this winter. Directly thereafter offering a long-term covid plan. Directly thereafter offering a pandemic preparedness plan. Directly thereafter offering a modified Public Health Act. I can do a lot, but I can't do that in that timing. So far, I'm on schedule. The letter for this winter is here. The letter for the long-term covid is coming. It's gonna be March. The pandemic preparedness is coming in April. At the same time, we are already considering what I have just referred to as an interim act. When exactly it comes, I can't tell you right now. But I understand your points very well. Hence also this line of thought.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u37	I would like to refer to the interim law, because I find it intriguing that the Minister is now coming up with this plan, which is apparently already being worked on in his ministry. So what is the difference between the temporary law we now have and an interim law? If I translate 'intermediate law', it is actually a temporary law, which is at least laid down for a certain interim period, at least with a clear horizon towards follow-up legislation. The difference is that the current temporary law, which is undesirable as far as we are concerned, at least allows Parliament to pull the plug every three months, while such an interim law may apply for a fixed period with the same powers. Is the Minister aware of this: the same possibilities for action? Will the Temporary Law then be transposed into that intermediate law, which will then have a longer term, which will actually eliminate the parliamentary possibility of stopping the law? Can the Minister reflect on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u38	Of course I can. What I hear your Chamber say and what is also understandable in the House of Representatives is that there is a great resistance to a further extension of a temporary law: a fifth, a sixth and a seventh extension. You hear me say that a final and thorough review and adaptation of the Public Health Act really takes time. Finally, you will hear from me that we have not been dealing with corona for five years or more and have had a completely stable situation for some time. We don't even have a month with a stable situation, let alone six months or twelve months. Then you can define with me what we really think is stable enough to say at some point: now it is endemic and now we know what it will do for us. It's still a very volatile situation. When you put these things together, you have to find a solution that brings all these ends together. Then I name one thought, without at this moment being able to fill out anything of what exactly is in it. The alternative is: do nothing now and come very quickly with a modified Public Health Act. But then you have a big chance of saying: in the evaluation of reports..... there will be more OVV reports................................................................................................................................................... Or we say, no, we're really waiting for that and we don't have anything for the time being. Then it remains to keep the fingers crossed and, if anything really needs to be done, an emergency procedure.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u39	I do not really have a clear picture of what the Minister is trying to do, but the Ministry is already working on such a law; at least there are plans to do so. But in fact, the Minister is now putting down a false contradiction, because he is now saying: either the temporary law is going to expire completely and we have nothing at all or we are going to maintain it for the time being or we are going to come up with an interim law to at least take action. But the false contradiction is that what is happening at the moment often does not concern effective measures. We have all just let it pass: measures that are not proven to be effective or measures that do not require any legal basis at all, such as those mentioned in the motion for a resolution of a number of Members of this Chamber. So...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u40	So the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u41	My question to the Minister is: why maintain this false contradiction between nothing at all or measures, when those measures are not effective and not necessary?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u42	I hear Mr Van Hattem arguing that measures we have taken in recent times were ineffective and not necessary. I'm sorry, but I disagree with Mr Van Hattem. We have had countless periods in the last two years, and I am looking at Mr Van der Voort, in which the numbers of seriously ill patients were so high that emergency services, ambulance services and general practitioners were completely overloaded, and we had a choice between letting that happen. You have regularly seen the images from abroad, or taking some measures and trying to contain the virus again. We have had this situation on a regular basis; not once, not twice, but often. The measures have acted accordingly. You also asked for scientific evidence. I am glad that the scientific approach has not been taken here in the sense of: we do the measures instead of A and instead of B we just let it happen and then we see what happens there. That would have been a scientific approach, but no ethics committee had approved it. Luckily, that wasn't done. That is why we do not have the scientific evidence. But I think we made a good choice. The previous cabinet has regularly intervened at the right moments. We can always say that perhaps it could have been done a little earlier, a little later or something else, but the measures have had an effect.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u43	That's not the question I asked. I didn't ask for empirical tests to take place to see if it works. The point is that there's a scientific basis underneath. What we have now seen in many measures is that the scientific basis was lacking. In fact, we have taken one of the most far-reaching measures in the Netherlands in times of peace after the Second World War, namely the establishment of a curfew. The Minister himself said in his previous position that this measure did not contribute at all to reducing the number of hospital admissions and so on. In fact, the Minister himself says: we just don't know, we've just done something in terms of measures. I'm just asking for a scientific basis. I'm not asking for an empirical study, a field study, but really just for a justification. I would therefore like to see, at least, clearly verifiable investigations under these measures. That's missing. There's my objection.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u44	I suggest that we let the Minister answer the question and then give him the chance to make a few meters with his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u45	Mr President, I would like that, of course, after I answer Mr Van Hattem. The scientific basis is in general terms in, for example, reducing the number of direct contacts. That's what that's based on. This is not the same as a scientific evidence in the sense of a randomized study or comparing one place to another, as has just been pointed out. Mr. Chairman. I was referring to the fact that the fifth extension is published in the Official Journal. The Council of State also gives its opinion on this. He got together for that last Wednesday. This time lag means that there are parts of the motion that oversee things that I cannot really change anymore. These elements have already been discussed. Then I come to the question: why can there be a proposal four weeks before the extension and was this always impossible in the past? In the old system, after publication of an extension decision, an approval act had to be submitted without delay, i.e. within a few days. That is also satisfactory. The decision was published on 23 November 2021 and that bill was submitted on the same date. The greater care in the decision-making process envisaged by the House of Representatives with an amendment must be weighed against the slightly less current picture on which such a proposal can be based. I fully endorse that wish. That is why, in the past period, I, together with the cabinet, have sought to reverse certain procedures in the decision-making process, in the sense that we first have a planned decision, specifically ask the OMT for its opinion and then take a final decision with that opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u46	The answer given by the Minister is not an answer to my question, because my question was that it could now be four weeks in advance. In a period of three months, you will know about a month in advance whether you want to extend or not or whether you will be out of all measures in a month's time. So I have the following questions. Why can't it be with a wallpaper now? Why couldn't it be done in the past? Why was it dissuaded? Why was it unworkable and impossible to do that? In the same way as it is now going to happen, it could have been done in the current system that still applies because the law has not yet been passed. Then you could have put your ear to the Chamber in advance to hear what the wishes were. You could have. Why couldn't it be then and can it now? There's really no difference.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u47	Mr. Chairman. I am focusing in my answer, as you will understand, on why it is possible now. Why it can now, is because we consciously focus on looking forward as much as possible. By the way, an important difference in dynamics, for example, is that the immune status of individuals is completely different from that of a year ago. A year ago, with the emergence of a new variant, such as the British variant, you saw at the beginning of last year, with the increase in the number of infections immediately a corresponding increase in the number of patients.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u48	A year ago, the approval law wasn't there. It did not enter into force until the third extension. We're talking about three months ago. Three months ago it couldn't be done and three months later it can, because the House of Representatives has that wish. I don't understand that in the equation. With good will, it could have been fine with the previous extension and with this extension.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u49	I'm sticking to the same answer. Looking ahead, we really want to do this differently. We have just discussed this in the previous answer. Three months from now, I'm not going to give any further reflection.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u50	I have another question about the fact that the new law will be in the Official Journal tomorrow. The amendment does not apply until the possible sixth extension.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u51	The sixth, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u52	I had to think. I recall that there has been an exchange in the House of Representatives that although that amendment does not enter into force at the next extension, the Cabinet has said that it will take the feelings of the Chamber into account in the design of the fifth extension. In that sense, the Minister's reaction to the motion surprises me. It is actually shown that the feeling of this Chamber cannot be taken into account at all in the next extension, if I understand the Minister correctly. And I wonder, perhaps, the Minister can answer this question. How the sentiments of the House of Representatives have been taken into account in this fifth extension.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u53	It's February 21st now. The law we're discussing now runs until March 1. At that time, we still have measures, and we still consider those measures to be relevant and proportionate, even if they are very limited. In this setting and with this timing, I can only make the following announcement for now and ask the Council of State for an opinion and then put in a law of approval.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u54	I understand that, but the debate in the House of Representatives on the amendment was not so long ago, out of my mind: two or three weeks ago. At that time, in my opinion, the cabinet said that the amendment would go into the sixth extension, but that it would try to act in the spirit of this amendment as well and as badly as it does in the fifth. Where do we see the spirit of the amendment?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u55	You can see the spirit of the amendment in, among other things, the adaptation of a proposed decision first, then asking an OMT for an opinion and then taking a decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u56	I'm sorry, but that's about measures and the amendment was about the law. That amendment has been said: we are going to act in that spirit, when it comes to the extension of the law, not the extension of the measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u57	In the timing as it has been absorbed, this is the dynamic that is there. I can't help it right now. I have to take these steps and, therefore, at this stage, when we are at the very end of a deadline, talk to you about the current extension, while the next one has to be announced. Is that unfortunate? Yeah, that's extremely unfortunate. But that is the system that I am in and that I can change a bit, but not in an even shorter period. Then I come to Mr Nicolaï's question: the Minister apparently considers it possible to use the right of amendment to amend another law; can he indicate which passages of the constitutional history he invokes? Okay, let me get this straight. Mr Nicolaï discussed in detail the scope of the law of amendment of the House of Representatives. I propose first, and I would ask Mr Nicolaï to understand that, as the trade minister of VWS, I am not the most appropriate govern ment representative to discuss this issue, which is a constitutional change. That is the domain of my colleagues in the field of legal protection and of BZK. In the note on the report, I answered a few questions about this. This concerns, among other things, Mr Nicolaï's question about the history of the constitution. I am told that nowhere in this parliamentary history is there anything to support Mr Nicolaï's reasoning that there are restrictions on the right of amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u58	I agree with the Minister that we should not have a constitutional discussion with him now. My question was also, and you will probably come to that, whether perhaps that discussion could be continued in a letter or something else. Because it is true that I have received an answer from this Minister, and that answer is, in my opinion, quite harsh. I wonder then whether, so to speak, this has been discussed with Constitutional matters and so on. I actually want to keep that a little open, because in my view we should not set a precedent because the note on the report now contains a sentence which actually concerns the whole of the legislation and everything. So that was kind of my point. And the second is that the suggestion in the answer was that it could actually be inferred from the history of the Constitution that I was not right. But what the Minister is saying now is, no, nothing can really be deduced from it. Well, that was exactly my idea, and so are my high-school friends: you can't distract anything from it. That was also why I read the text to you as a legal body. And I'm still looking forward to seeing what you think of that text.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u59	I would like to return to that in a written response, thanks for Mr Nicolaï's understanding. Mr Nicolaï's second question was: if the right of amendment is used to amend another law, the First Chamber is restricted in its co-legislative function; does the Minister share this? That fits in with this. I do not comment on the grounds on which the First Chamber assesses a bill. The Constitution states that the First Chamber shall consider the proposal as forwarded to it by the Second Chamber. Then I come to Mr Van der Voort's question: is the Minister prepared to extend the Twm for a shorter period than three months or to submit a more limited KB within that time? As at present, the Twm can be extended for a maximum of three months each. In theory, therefore, a shorter period is possible, but that does pose a practical dilemma to me, because the decision-making process itself requires a period of two months. So a considerably shorter period than three months is virtually not possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u60	I thank the Minister for the answer. The second question was whether it would also be possible, before those three months that the new KB is about to end, to come up with another KB. Even if you listen to the discussion here: it is said that there are still too many measures in it; and the Minister says that it is not now appropriate to take out all these measures, but perhaps in a month's time. Is it possible to come up with a new KB in a month's time with fewer measures? Could the Minister answer that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u61	I would like to come back to that in the second term, if I may. Mr Van der Voort also asked how I look at a separate law against pandemics. I have just mentioned that the announced policy agenda of pandemic preparedness is going to the House of Representatives this spring. This will also provide insight into the proposed future legal instruments. Mrs Nanninga asked: does the cabinet now expect support from this Chamber for renewal, despite the fact that it is no longer necessary because the cabinet is scaling down measures and is therefore no longer proportionate? We are continuing a number of measures. I've already named them: mouth caps in public transport and so on. We are still doing so because of the current epidemiological situation. As soon as it's possible, you want to reduce it. I am sticking to the example of using a ticket for locations with more than 500 visitors. This is proportional if there is still a high infection pressure. The moment it reduces, you can get rid of it. For now, as has already been pointed out, the request is indeed to support the extension. Mr President, I will take my second set, as you can see.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u62	How many of those sets do you have, Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u63	Three of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u64	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u65	That is to say, two with questions and one with motions. So this is actually the second set. Mr Van Hattem asked: what does the cabinet mean by "the virus regardless of mutations and illness"; does this include all the strains of SARS? It's about the corona virus, so SARS-CoV-2. Any mutations of that virus don't make it another virus. Another SARS virus, also an A disease by the way, is... Sorry, sorry: SARS disease falls into the same category but is another virus.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u66	I'm gonna ask you about this. The Minister says that the mutations are included, but how far do you go for the application of this law? We see that the Omikron variant has a milder effect. In the case of further possible variants of this virus, and in the further mutation of the virus, which means that it is even further away from the original, seriously ill-making variant, there may be a certain demarcation to be given. Now we are talking very fully about the SARS-CoV-2 virus. However, certain criteria may also be attached to whether a mutation of the virus should still fall within that scope, also in view of the application of the A status, which is the subject of the other debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u67	Coronavirus SARS-CoV-2 appoints one specific entity, with all mutants in it. There are molecular-biological and biological agreements on how long that will last as the same virus and when to be considered a completely different virus. So I mean this particular virus including the mutations that exist. It's not a continuum to suddenly a completely different virus.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u68	But what's leading? Is that the name of the virus? The minister actually sketches it as: it's the SARS-CoV-2 virus. Yeah, clearly. But there are, as we now see with the omikron variant, ever further forms of appearance. The degree of impact changes. The Minister says that certain microbiological aspects are leading, but they are not linked one-on-one to this form of legislation or emergency legislation. Can we at least get more clarity in that? For example, in the case of a mutation, we know when it is no longer the original virus, but microbiologically such a weakened species that we no longer need to talk about it in the sense of legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u69	It is this virus, as has just been specified, including all mutants that are included. For the sake of clarity, the number of mutations included is numerous. We mention a number of very specific entities, but the number of mutations you can find is countless.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u70	Finally, Mr. Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u71	Yes, finally, Mr. Chairman. I understand. That can indeed be countless. But it is equally true that at some point the virus can also weaken further and no longer cause a situation of pressure on health care and problematic conditions. Can that moment be clearly calibrated, so that we have a touchstone to the effect that we can no longer use such legislation, which restricts fundamental rights? Then a clear line can be drawn. Now it's just waiting to see what happens, because it's this virus, while other viruses called "avian flu" have just been referred to, which may be much more serious or could have a greater impact on public health.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u72	As I pointed out in my introduction, the biggest difference that we have now is not the virus, the omicron variant versus the original variant, but the built-up defence against the virus. That's the biggest difference. That does indicate that it is very difficult to describe it on the characteristics of the virus. You take your measures based on the degree of illness, the level of protection of the accumulated immune system from previous infection, over time, the number of cases and so on. But you cannot describe this using specific characteristics of the virus itself in terms of, for example, molecular, epidemiological and a certain typing. Then Mr Van Hattem also asked what the criteria are for a worrying variant abroad. These criteria are agreed worldwide. This is done under the auspices of the World Health Organisation on the basis of matters such as infectiousness, disease and response to immunity, as has just been mentioned. Mr Van Hattem also asked: when are we going to enter an endemic phase? I indicated in my introduction that it is not possible at this time to say exactly when we are entering an endemic phase because of the erraticity of the virus. Of course, you have to keep monitoring that, but we're not in it right now, and it's unclear whether we're in it in a month, three months or six months. I know there's a lot to talk about, but it's not endemie right now. Mr Van Hattem asked: what indicators will the cabinet use for new measures, in particular for the Ctb? When taking action, we look at two objectives, as formulated in the letter of 8 February: accessibility of the whole care chain and ensuring social and economic continuity and vitality. We are well aware with you that taking measures is very far-reaching. We really only want to go there if the two objectives so ask. We are widely advised by the OMT, the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau and so on.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u73	Sorry to interrupt again, Mr President, but that might save us some time in the second term. At this point, I did not ask about the targets, but about the indicators. If you take a measure, you should also be able to assess the impact of such a measure, so that it is at least measurable and verifiable. For example, you can set a zero measurement if you want to introduce a particular measure. For example, the 1G policy envisaged by the Minister could determine at what point an effective policy is. We don't know that now. There is now no indication of what will happen if there are so many fewer infections, or if there are no infections or fewer cases of disease. This is not specified in the measure. Can the Minister make it clear, also in view of the motion adopted, what indicators will be taken into account in this policy and any other measures that would be in force in the future application of the Twm, if any?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u74	Indicators are, as we know, very broad. It concerns the number of infections, the number of patients who become seriously ill, such as those measured by hospitalisations, the number of patients in a hospital, the duration of admission. It is also about softer indicators. It concerns general mental well-being among young people, data from the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau and so on.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u75	An "et cetera" doesn't do me much good. I would like to know what the Minister has to say: if he puts this measure on the table, what does he intend to do if he is to evaluate the measure or re-evaluate it in the meantime? Which indicators will he pay particular attention to? It is not so much about which indicators are all possible, but about which indicators are then leading. I can understand if there is a certain bandwidth in it, but what are the guiding indicators to make this policy verifiable, including for Parliament? As a parliament, of course, we would also like to know what is being done and whether this policy is valid at all. Couldn't the Minister be more specific on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u76	I certainly can. It's just the combination in total. We shall consider that. You're weighing that up. It also depends very much on the situation which indicator is the most prominent at that time. It is therefore the combination of all these different factors.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u77	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u78	Then there were questions about the position of the OMT. The OMT is an advisory body. It advises on policy, but it doesn't make policy. The OMT is independent. Members have a personal seat in the OMT, because of their expertise. I'm not talking about the composition of the OMT. I don't get the minutes either. They're confidential. Once the OMT has put an opinion on paper, the ministry gets a concept of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u79	In my first term, I also said a few things about the OMT: the wheelbarrow full of frogs that has caused the whole country to be completely confused for two years. How does the Minister look back on the OMT's actions, also benchmarked internationally with how things are going in other countries? Does he not agree with me that this could have been greatly improved? It has caused enormous confusion among the Dutch people about the measures, the usefulness and the need etc. Everyone had a different opinion. Shouldn't we do that differently? Shouldn't we dissolve that OMT?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u80	For starters, I'm not talking about whether or not to dissolve the OMT. I am grateful to the OMT for all the advice it has given in the past period. Together, that was about 100 opinions. That's a lot. These were very thorough. As already indicated, people are in the OMT in a personal capacity. I assume, like my predecessor, that the OMT will come up with a piece of advice.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u81	That was probably the intention when this construction was ever conceived, but in practice we see that this did not happen. In fact, every night we saw another OMT member tell us something. I imagine at some point you'd say, "If you want to join the OMT, you'd advise the government." I can also imagine that the minister doesn't want another top official from his ministry every night on a talk show that says something different than the top official the night before. Then you can't make a policy. This isn't workable, is it? This has to be different, doesn't it? Everyone can see that, can't they? The Minister can't... I understand that he himself has been involved in the whole decision-making process, but this could be much better, couldn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u82	I haven't been a member of the OMT. Again, people are in this on a personal basis, based on their expertise. I'm assuming they'll come up with a piece of advice.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u83	Mr. Otten, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u84	I have heard this partyline twice now, but I expect a somewhat more substantive answer from the Minister. I think the Dutch people are entitled to that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u85	The cabinet really has to deal with the OMT's advice. What individual members ventilate apart from that, I'm not about that. I really need to do it with the OMT's advice.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u86	If you speak so loudly in the Chamber, let me say to the Members, that is audible and understandable to everyone. It also disturbs the speakers, so the request is not to do so. It's not the first time today either. Thank you. Mr. Janssen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u87	Just a quick word about the OMT. I have pointed this out before. Just in the broadest sense: the OMT is an organisation that is intended for advice in crisis management, for a short term. Does the Minister, in general, see the risk of a very natural process of group thinking after such a long period? If you work so closely with board and advisors over such a long period of time, something could arise somewhere that would be quite normal of a group mind. So what do we do with it towards the future?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u88	Of course, there is always such a risk. At the same time, and I believe that these are also the expressions just referred to by Mr Otten.................................................................................................................................................................................................. I have not noticed in the past two years that this is increasingly converging in one opinion that hinders one's own professionalism. But there's a risk. The good thing is that on parts there are many other parties who do not come up in the form of the setting of an OMT, but in a different way with opinions and opinions. If I may appoint a few: a Federation of Medical Specialists, a Association of Nurses and Nurses Netherlands, a Dutch Association of Intensive Care, a National Network of Acute Care, the joint ggz, the GGD's, etc.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u89	Those are auxiliary wheels on the tricycle. What matters is whether the bike itself drives straight. So the question is: is the risk of a normal process in itself recognised by the Minister as group thinking, which occurs intensively after such a long period of time? He has now mentioned a number of parties who would have to adjust it if necessary. But it has to go well within the OMT itself, and not with external adjustment?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u90	The parties I just mentioned won't send the OMT in. Neither is their function. They're not about that any more than I am about it. The question is very specific: does the Minister recognise that there is a risk of converging thinking? Of course I recognize that. Does the Minister have any indication of this so far? No.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u91	Finally, Mr Janssen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u92	The minister said, "I've been looking back three months." But I suppose the Minister means he doesn't have any signals longer than three months ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u93	I'm looking at the signals from the position I'm in right now. Then there was a question about unusable nursing home beds for the recovery of covid patients. The answer is I don't recognize a conflict over cohort beds outside the hospital. With the parties concerned ActiZ, GGD GHOR and Zorgverzekerings The Netherlands has decided to extend the cohortbeds scheme for the first quarter of this year. Where necessary, they may decide on further extension. Mr. Otten asked it to stand with the chief medical officer. Several actions have been identified in the coalition agreement, including these. This calls for a more detailed approach. As soon as we know more about this, I will inform you about it. Then there was a question about the LCPS, which makes no distinction between patients with corona and patients with corona. Why in the OMT advice and not in the LCPS? The NICE Foundation keeps some record of this. In this respect, data are available for the OMT. I would add that you can calculate them directly on the back of a paper, because they are very simple. What we're asking right now is that hospitals are going to register all of that, with data managers that go through all the statuses a day. That's between 150 and 200 a day right now. We must then try, with or without the support of a nurse and a doctor, to make a classification. I think NICE does that in four or five categories. Personally, I think that is a mortal waste of time, because you can calculate it on the basis of both the number of infections and the number of hospital patients admitted. Then you know immediately and then you may be 1% or 2% wrong, but we don't need the whole registration for that. Can the Minister indicate how continuing to ask for a DCC can be proportionate to public health at all? This has been agreed within the EU in the framework of travel. The DCC is the standard for travel at the current stage of the pandemic. Are there any European agreements on this, including in relation to the vaccination obligation in Austria? Member States are free to adopt national policies for the use of covid certificates and opt for 2G, 3G or a vaccination obligation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u94	That is precisely the problem of the DCC, the European corona evidence. At some point you'll get a trap at European level. Agreements are then made and a number of countries, including a number of leading countries in Europe such as Germany, are now going hard on this vaccination obligation. At some point you get a certain uniformity at that European level. Then the question is: what will the Netherlands do? Are we going to go along with this European process or are we simply going to stand firm behind the fact that there is no compulsory vaccination, even if it is agreed or imposed at European level? Can the Minister state what guarantees there are that we will not be dragged into the trap, partly in view of the fact that some leading EU countries, not only Germany but also France, for example, continue to pursue 2G policies very closely?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u95	Last week or the week before, I don't know anymore; time is running fast. I had a meeting with my European colleagues. In that consultation, which was largely about covid and about the comparison of the covid situation in the various countries, for reasons as you will understand, I do not see any movement towards a European vaccination obligation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u96	A European vaccination obligation is something other than a digital corona certificate, which can be one of the guiding factors within the application of such evidence and in which a certain direction can be given. I am not so much concerned with talking about a European vaccination obligation. I am concerned that it is going to be arranged through the back door that everyone, in order to be able to use such a digital corona evidence at EU level, will be directly or indirectly confronted with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u97	At European level, it is currently agreed that the digital corona certificate is leading the EU to facilitate travel. That is a European agreement. There is a general European directive on which parameters apply, including as regards the recovery and duration of vaccination. We are currently complying with European rules, but individual countries are free to deviate from them.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u98	Finally, Mr. Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u99	That is precisely my concern: we are complying with European rules. If at some point these European rules are increasingly moving towards an indirect version with 2G or a direct variant with a vaccination obligation, such as Germany and Austria, will the Netherlands also comply with those European rules? I'd like to see safeguards for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u100	Mr Van Hattem has to quote me correctly. What I said is about the duration of the vaccination and recovery certificate as part of a DCC: after vaccination 270 days, after recovery 180 days. There is no vaccination requirement for broad. If you were to ask me whether I would be in favour of a vaccination obligation, my answer is: no, absolutely not. Then there was a question from Mr Van Hattem about vaccination in a mosque. GGDs continue to work on providing information and facilitating opportunities for offering as low-threshold vaccination as possible. Terms such as "fine-meshed vaccination" have been used for this purpose. It is relevant, because once again, although for the whole of the Netherlands, we can look at our average vaccination rate and also booster rate with a somewhat positive look. The last one must be among the 60-plussers. But there are very large differences between different neighborhoods throughout the Netherlands, and really big differences. That means that it can really help if a GGD can go to specific people, for example in a mosque. I don't have the details of exactly how that works. I regret to say that I cannot answer that question. But I am glad that the GD's are undertaking these activities. Mr. Chairman. That brings me to my reaction to the two motions. First of all, that's motion F. I would advise against this motion, for reasons such as those mentioned in the debate. Then there's motion G and that's a speech-exmotion that I have no further addition to.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u101	That puts you at the end of your speech?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u102	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u103	Thank you. Mr Atsma would like to make an interruption. Mr Atsma speaks on behalf of the CDA, let me say for the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u104	Thank you in the direction of the Minister for a clear and consistent response. I am pleased that the Minister has indicated that good choices have also been made. He pointed, among other things, to the scientific basis for reducing the contact moments and the like. I have heard the Minister answer a number of questions from all my fellow Members, especially in the direction of Mr Van Hattem. But Mr Van Hattem also had a number of qualifications about the previous cabinet and about the minister's predecessor. I would also like to hear this Minister's qualification on this because I would like to take away the picture that nothing has been done but wrong things, or largely wrong things, in recent years.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u105	I would like to thank Mr Atsma for asking me to speak on this, because I would like to do so wholeheartedly. I have experienced the policy over the past two years in a different role of being very close, and very close for a long time meant almost daily contact with both Prime Minister Bruins, then Minister Van Rijn, then Minister Van Ark and then Minister De Jonge. That was, of course, very much about curative care in my role. I am very grateful to the previous cabinet for the measures they have taken each time and which made it possible to ensure that access to care was guaranteed as much as possible for everyone in the Netherlands who needed care at some point. This sometimes called for extremely difficult decisions and also for very difficult considerations. I share what has sometimes been mentioned in an early stage: it was about making complex decisions, while you missed an important part of the relevant information.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u106	This minister is exactly 180 degrees the opposite of the previous minister, who was rather widespread. But here we belong to our motion only: I dissuade her. If the Minister has another reason why he's betraying her, I'll ask him through the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u107	If it's too short... And I haven't even shown my shoes yet! That was the question. No, the reason why we are not advised is that, as indicated, we still think we need the Twm for the period from 1 March to 1 June, especially at the stage we are in now. After all, the relaxations that are now taking place are until 26 February, and that leaves us with two measures, as has already been mentioned. For how long, I don't know. We mentioned a next weighing moment on March 15th. I have always said that I am really in favour of the use of measures, but only if they are proportionate and stop as soon as possible, as soon as possible. But it must be possible to do so in a somewhat safe setting, and I also think that the past period has shown that commitment and that approach.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u108	Of course, we are dealing with a lot of social unrest. You may find that good or bad, but it's a fact that it's been created in recent times. It would be extremely helpful if, as I said, the emergency law were repealed and bad legislation was placed in the bin. Because apart from the medical necessity, it's also a bad law. I miss the perspective in this debate when we are finally rid of this law. I don't hear that from the Minister. He says, "We may still need him." That was exactly what we warned against when it was introduced. That argument will be used until the end of the day to hold him back for a while. We need to get rid of it now. It's now or never. If we don't do it now, we'll never get rid of it. 'Cause it's so convenient to keep up the good work.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u109	I'll come back to the introduction I gave.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u110	However, I would suggest that we do not repeat too much. This question has been asked before. Do you have another answer?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u111	I have no other answer than I've given before.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u112	Then I'm going to see Mr. Janssen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u113	I have a question about the motion on letter G, of which the Minister says: the Chamber pronounces. It is at a seat after a two-thirds majority in this Chamber that a ruling is given. Am I to understand that the Minister is not taking a decision on this?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u114	That is true, contrary to what I have already said, and yet we are repeating that when a new situation arises, there is a real possibility, which I cannot estimate, that only general advisory measures such as distance and a mouth cap are not sufficient. Then I'll come back to you, but in another setting. Then we'll have to follow an emergency procedure.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u115	But let us be specific about this motion that has now been tabled by almost two thirds of this Chamber. I have heard the Minister say about this, once again: a. I will then be in trouble in substance and so I cannot carry her out and b. tomorrow the new KB will be here, so I can't change anything about it. Did I understand correctly from the Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u116	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u117	I just heard the Minister plead for action or at least let go of things in a somewhat safe situation. That's another unclear notion. I asked about the indicators. The Minister did not really go beyond the fact that it is a kind of coherence of things, but it is still not something that we as a Chamber, as a parliament, can test. Once again, I would like to ask the Minister to give specific details, just some of which we can examine, for example, the introduction of the 1G measure envisaged by the Minister. In addition to this is the word "narrow-watched," which is literally in his letter. Now we are talking about "somewhat safe." Can the Minister indicate what he has in mind? It will then appear in the Acts and at least we will have a few anchor points from which we in the Chamber can say: it is being introduced at the moment, then we will see something happening or not, and then we will know what the Minister stood for except for 'close-minded','safe', very general concepts that no one knows anything about. Then the second thing, if I may ask you straightaway. The minister said he didn't have any information on the situation in the mosques, so whether mosques are being paid by the GGD and whether certain Islamic rules are being observed. I imagine that this information is not readily available, but can the Minister still answer these questions in a further letter? I would like to make that clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u118	The Minister, without repeating himself.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u119	GGDs organise fine-meshed vaccination. They do so at the locations designated for that purpose. They do that in hospitals and in many other places. I know that's not usually paid for. I can't answer the question of whether that happens in a specific situation, in a specific mosque. I don't know. I assume it won't happen, but I can't answer that. I welcome the action they are taking to find as many Dutch as possible and to offer vaccination. I know that can really make a difference. There are many such activities. You should imagine that there are areas in the Netherlands where the vaccination rate is well below 50%. These kinds of measures help to achieve this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u120	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u121	Finally, regarding your other question, about indicators, and somewhat safe. You asked me that before. I have little to add to that, other than pointing out the data, for example. There are. I would like to point out, for example, the technical briefings by Mr Van Dissel, who always comes forward with predictions for four weeks ahead, six weeks ahead, sometimes eight weeks ahead in the course of a pandemic. You know these curves. You know what that looks like, with a kind of median, but also with an upper and a lower curve. What is our common choice, including for citizens of the Netherlands, is to try to make the most of it, and at the same time not to get into a situation where too many people fall out or have no access to care etc. There are a lot of parameters that fit in with that. That's a broad view.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u122	Finally, Mr. Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u123	I still feel like I'm being sent into the reeds by this minister. Unfortunately, I add. Of course, I know Mr. Van Dissel's charts. In fact, they have not been right in terms of expectations lately. On the contrary, much less has happened than what was predicted in the models of RIVM. Of course, this doesn't mean anything. We simply want clarity when a measure is taken, which we can measure.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u124	Now we're really gonna repeat a question for the fourth time, Mr. Van Hattem. You've already received the same answer four times. I'm gonna put an end to that now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u125	But it is on the basis of an approved motion. If there's no answer, I'll ask. Then I'd like to ask another question. Can the Minister at least make it clear, if the OMT is in charge of such decision-making, how the scientific basis for OMT reports is selected and what justification is given? I think that is an important question, also in view of my second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u126	Finally, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u127	We have already discussed the scientific basis of individual components. Unfortunately, I have nothing to add.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u128	I heard the Minister say on Mr Janssen's questions, if I understand correctly, that the motion that Mrs De Boer and others have tabled is not feasible. That's one. Two. The Minister said that the next extension will be in the Official Journal tomorrow. May I conclude from this that this forthcoming extension concerns all the powers once again?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u129	Except for one factor. I'll just grab it. That has something to do with a ban on alcohol. Yeah, one part.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u130	I also heard Mrs De Boer refer to parliamentary history with regard to the last amendment contained in this extension. She pointed out that the Minister had undertaken to consult a little more on the subsequent extensions. Is the Minister prepared to shape that consultation in some way with the Supreme Court?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u131	I am very willing to do that. What I also mentioned in response to a question by Mr Van der Voort is that, in the system, such a whole preparation alone means a process of about two months. If we had a debate very recently, that route has been going on for a long time. All the more reason to see how we can change that in the foreseeable future.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u132	Finally, Mr. Nicolaï.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u133	I am asking because, of course, we cannot, as the First Chamber, say that we want those powers and those powers out. We can only say yes or no. So what is at issue is whether or not the government could somehow probe the upper chamber to see to what extent the Chamber says: we really do not want to have those powers in it anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u134	Just give me the opportunity to tune that down really calmly. I can tell you that the trajectory as it is now, has so many feet in the earth and has so many steps. I have already indicated that a three-month extension has been under way for two months. It's really a careful process with lots of parties. I'd like to serve you, but I don't want to make it any more complex. In my department I see that, quite understandable, for two years now, people have been in the position of managing a covid pandemic in such a way that it requires such a commitment that I really have to guard it a little bit. Because as I said in my introduction, there are so many other questions that we really need to make room for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u135	Thank you. We now come to the second term from the Chamber. I give the floor to Mrs De Boer on behalf of GroenLinks. Mrs. De Boer is requesting a suspension. Then I'll suspend until 8:40.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u136	I give the floor to Mrs De Boer. She's free to say who she's speaking for.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u137	Mr. Chairman. I am speaking on behalf of the same groups as before. The Minister's first-term reply was disappointing on two points. It is important that until very recently no work has been done on regulation and legislation, despite the frequent requests made by this Chamber. That's what we've got to find out. The second disappointing thing is that the wishes of this Chamber regarding the fifth extension can no longer be taken into account, because the Royal Decree will be published tomorrow in the Official Journal, and that the wishes of the House of Representatives for the fifth extension have not been taken into account either. We still have a question on both points. The Minister said he's going to work on interim legislation. Can the Minister guarantee that this legislation lays down clear criteria on the weighting of the necessity and professionalism of measures, which lays down how long measures may last and when they should lapse and which lays down the democratic control and control of fundamental rights-limiting measures, in line with my question in the first term? Then I come to the second, so what can still be done with regard to the fifth extension. Suppose today or tomorrow the Minister would come to the conclusion that the fifth extension of the Twm should not be there or not quite there, can he then theoretically speak I am not talking about whether he wants to, but whether he can come up with another KB that will replace the previous KB, which will appear tomorrow in the Official Journal? If so, then it is a matter of not wanting rather than not being able to. The other possibility is: should we see the solution that Mr Nicolaï's House of Representatives disgusts Mr Twm de Twm in the examination of the Act of Approval and then, if the Minister would like to implement the motion, with a positive opinion from the Minister? Locking up. The question of whether and how the answer given by the Minister will affect the voting behaviour of the political groups on behalf of whom I am speaking on the fourth extension is the subject of each political group itself. That is what we are going to discuss in our own group. I'm not going to say anything about that right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u138	Thank you, Mrs De Boer. I call Mr Van Hattem on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u139	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This minister may be a little more concise than his predecessor, but he is still as unclear when it comes to it. Because we still don't know where we stand when measures are being taken. We still do not know which indicators are being used to implement certain fundamental rights measures. That is quite serious when you consider that we in the Chamber should also be able to monitor and weigh the proportionality of such measures. The OMT still has a crucial role to play in this. As I indicated in the first term, the Minister states that the advice of the OMT is guiding in the advice of such measures. He takes one-on-one OMT advice. On December 3rd, an article was published in Follow the Money under the heading "Government and OMT underpin QR code with unreliable models." It contains a number of interesting findings. This concerns not only the QR code, but also the OMT's method of working. First of all, I would like to quote a piece of what integrity professor Van Eijbergen says in that article about this. I quote: "The cabinet simply points to the OMT as the science, when you see that science is sometimes built on vague assumptions and falsehood. The OMT seems to present the ultimate truth, but the scientific basis is rather trivial and debatable. If you then make firm statements and present them as scientific truth, it is a form of folklore." That article also mentions some examples of how the OMT works with its so-called scientific reports. For example, the 130th OMT opinion on the QR codes has been analysed. Follow the Money writes that reports of field labs are used full of assumptions. There was also a modeling report of the RIVM of one A4', which did not contain any scientific study of 2G or 3G. Furthermore, the top of the OMT literature list is the calculation model of the Tony Blair Institute for Global Change. That is a think tank that advocates the introduction of a digital ID and which has lobbied governments repeatedly for a digital ID precisely because of corona. According to FTM, this Blair Institute also has a collaboration with the think tank ID2020, an advocate of a digital ID and initiator of the Good Health Pass Collaborative, a collaborative project of companies such as Mastercard, IBM, Microsoft and facial recognition technology providers. So you see that a report from a lobby organization is at the top of the OMT literature list and then those OMT reports are used to take measures that restrict fundamental rights. And that's what the cabinet takes as a basis. Can the Minister reflect on this and also take into account the question of how to prevent the corona measures with the European corona certificate, the DCC, which we have already talked about, from being a step towards a control society based on biometrics? Last week, De Volkskrant warned about this in an article by Huib Mudderkolk of 14 February, under the heading: The coronapas will never disappear completely again. That even De Volkskrant, not exactly my very best friend, writes about this, I think is a clear development that we are going that way. I ask the Minister what guarantees there are that we will not move towards such a biometric control society on the basis of such measures, that we will not be messed up there via that trap. In the first term, the Minister indicated the scientific basis for his measures to reduce the number of contacts. But it is precisely in this context that there is also an assumption of effectiveness, as we have seen more often. The Minister himself indicated in his previous role that there was no effect of curfew, as I said earlier. Can we also hear from the Minister what the envisaged effectiveness of the measures is? Can we get that clearer? Once again, I have repeatedly asked for it in the first period, but I was told by this Minister that it is a combination of different factors in the question of indicators. If we are going to take measures that are only the basis for this, if that is the only thing we can control as a parliament, then we simply have nothing to test, nothing to measure, then we will be sent, as I said, with a bunch of bollocks. And then you run the risk of restricting fundamental rights with measures that do nothing but result in false safety, and we should never cooperate in that. Mr. Chairman. Then the minister also said in his term that the OMT gives advice and that the ministry receives a concept of that advice. Will the Ministry then also have the opportunity to respond to that advice before the OMT finally brings out that advice? Has it ever occurred that, on the basis of this possible reaction, adjustments have also been made? Then there are a number of parties here, the CDA, to conclude that they have all been great efforts of this cabinet in recent times. But there will soon be a parliamentary survey on the corona policy, so I would like to ask the Minister why he is already ahead of things with his extensive thanks to the past cabinet and the long-term outgoing cabinet, while there is still a parliamentary inquiry on this matter. Mr. Chairman. As a PVV, we will vote against this extension of the Emergency Act. We call once again on the Minister to withdraw this emergency law as soon as possible and not to introduce an interim law, which is actually wrapped in a new jacket, with perhaps even less opportunity for Parliament to adjust. Mr President, so far in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u140	Thank you, Mr. Van Hattem. Then I saw Mr. Verkerk standing first and then Mr. Atsma. Shall I grant you your interruption in that order? Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u141	Mr Van Hattem spoke about assumptions about models and criticized them a lot. I'd like to ask him if he knows any models without assumptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u142	In a model there is always a certain assumption, that is true, but they are poorly substantiated models. Follow the Money rightly points to a presentation given by Andreas Voss, in which a number of graphs were presented that contained math errors and didn't really make sense. These are things that are being highlighted. The assumptions are simply not sufficiently substantiated. That's where the problem is. Of course, a model is always an assumption, but you have assumptions that are grounded and assumptions that are unfounded. In this case, we are talking about unfounded assumptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u143	Then I actually have one more question, namely: what exactly is the characteristic of science? That is: something is being said, that is being attacked, and precisely because of this continuous critical discussion the models are getting better and better. So what you're sketching and what someone said about all those frogs jumping out of that wheelbarrow is actually really great, because that's how science works. So if I were in your place, I'd like to suggest to the Minister that we keep getting these models critically tested by scientists who really know what they're talking about. And then in all honesty, the core of this model and of all models nowadays is human-to-human contact, because we know that the virus is not transmitted to humans via materials. So as a central point of departure, how to turn it: a model that does not have it can never be a good model.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u144	I would indeed encourage Karl Popper's theory of falsification to be applied as a scientific model. That can always find my support. They did this more often, for example, in the climate approach. But this Corona approach is also often lacking. For too long models are assumed that simply do not match, but they are held on to them for too long. And what we are seeing now is that instead of such substantiated scientific reports, the interests of a lobby organisation are being taken into account. A lobby organization leading the OMT as a calculation model! So that is already a worrying development. So yes, indeed, falsifying models, that must certainly always be done, but apply it consistently. And we simply have too little insight into the falsifications that are being adopted in those models, in order to be able to control that properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u145	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u146	And that is precisely what we need those indicators and so on, in order to be able to test that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u147	Mr. Chairman. I asked the Minister if he could give an appreciation of what Mr Van Hattem said about doing and leaving the previous cabinet, looking at the pandemic. That's what the Minister did. And then Mr Van Hattem blames the Minister for judging before there has been a comprehensive evaluation of the past few years. Isn't that a very double observation of you, saying "Minister, you should have waited" when you're kicking the organ in full in both first and second terms to give your judgment already? In fact, you intend not to wait for that at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u148	That is my role as a representative of the people: to carry out the monitoring task here and to ensure that matters are properly reviewed, settled and examined. But the Minister is now asking for an appreciation of this, when it has already been announced that a parliamentary inquiry will take place and there is a hint of approval here... Well, I don't think the Minister is doing himself any favours either by giving all his blessings on the previous cabinet in this way. Moreover, I find it extremely childish of Mr Atsma to attack me in this way. He is now dealing with certain qualifications that I have given in the first term, but that is simply not a substantive attack. I know Mr. Atsma better. If he really comes up with a substantive argument now, then I could have a good discussion with him, but at the interruption he made earlier, that argument was completely lacking.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u149	If you don't mind. Look, what I'm concerned about is that Mr. Van Hattem has a judgment in advance, and doesn't wait for an evaluation. And then when someone else has a judgment, you say: that is not appropriate; you should wait for it. I can't rhyme with that, I don't think that's right, and I think that's wrong. It would please you if you could also let some of that modesty sound through.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u150	Finally, Mr. Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u151	We certainly have a judgment. That is also what we are in favour of as a representative of the people, in order to assess and adjust current policies and the cabinet. If the cabinet is going to judge itself, and that is what this is all about in my comment, then we have something quite different. Mr Atsma's question to the Minister was, "How do you judge yourself and your predecessor in office?', It is a question that belongs to the parliamentary inquiry. The parliamentary inquiry, that is to say, the parliamentary inquiry, so it is precisely with us as representatives of the people, at least the House of Representatives. They must therefore give an opinion on this, but not a cabinet that judges itself and knocks itself on the chest of 'we and our ministers have done a great job'. This may even make things unnecessarily difficult for the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u152	I didn't hear the Minister say that last thing. Those are words from Mr Van Hattem. I just think that he too should be a little more cautious in his final assessment of recent years, and also this moment, because I have also heard him give a single qualification on current policy. Something more modest would be in place, especially from this room of reflection.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u153	I have a brief response to that. We are also here to assess current policies. New legislative proposals are being submitted to this Chamber. We have to judge them. I wouldn't do my job if I didn't. But I can reassure Mr Atsma: if he is prepared, like the PVV, to vote against this bill tomorrow and it is off the table, then you will be able to expect a little more restraint from me in the coming period, because then at least we will be out of this misery. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u154	Thank you, Mr. Van Hattem. Mr Otten has the floor on behalf of the Otten Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u155	Mr. Chairman. We are very disappointed with the Minister's response. Today we are discussing the fourth extension of the Temporary Law COVID-19, but the Minister is also talking about the fifth and sixth extensions. We lack perspective. We also lack reflection on his predecessor's Wob messages. I do not think I have heard the Minister about this, although I did raise it extensively in my first term. Much further than 'we are so terribly busy with everything and some, with press conferences and so on', the Minister unfortunately does not yet come. We still had such high expectations of this new minister. We therefore hope that he will make it come true. The OVV investigated the first phase of the corona crisis and concluded that politics has been hiding behind science too much and did not dare to take control at crucial moments. Our conclusion is, unfortunately, that this minister is tending to continue on that path and continues the path taken by his predecessor, while at the same time a clear trend is needed to regain the confidence of the people in the policy and to give them a fresh perspective. In spite of repeated demands, including in the case of the interruptions, the Minister cannot provide us with a concrete timetable for the end of this disproportionate emergency law. "Extending to St. Juttemis" is actually the motto of this minister, our conclusion after this debate. It's very disappointing. The expiry date of this emergency act has expired. It's time to put an end to it. In any case, we will vote against the extension of the emergency law and call on everyone to do the same. Because if we don't get rid of it now, we're never gonna get rid of it. The Minister's argument strengthened us in that view. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u156	Thank you, Mr. Otten. I call Mr Janssen on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u157	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for replying, but with a comment. The Minister states a number of times that he has just started, but that does not apply either to corona or to the legislative process that this Chamber is judging today. That's been going on for a long time. The minister got on a moving train. This is not a one-and-a-half month ministerial meeting. This concerns the fourth extension of a law of October 2020. I would therefore like to call on the Minister not to keep away from questions, because we want answers on the history of origin. At least, my group. Mr. Chairman. I still don't have a visual on the motion. I see what it says. I also understand that the Minister says, "I can't do anything with it." I see a number of life cuffs being thrown towards the minister. I look forward to receiving the answer from the Minister in the second term. We will then have to look at what that leads to in the event of interruption. What has been very disappointing to me, and what has become clear now, is that the Minister indicates that the Ministry has actually only been dealing with this Twm, from extension to extension. That really is not the picture that was drawn to us earlier. Then it was said: we are going to do everything we can to transfer everything as quickly as possible. See my explanation of vote on the third extension. Then I said, "Well, let's see what's coming and how it all worked out in January and February." But I now understand from the Minister that this has not happened at all, that it has only worked from extension to extension and that the parallel path has not gone at all. That's why I was talking about the Heink motion and the kind of permanent postponement note. It's still seen as: we can't do anything with the Public Health Act until we know everything, when we have all the OVV reports, when we've learned all the lessons, when we've talked to everyone. Yeah, that's the big adjustment to make that pandemic-proof in the future. But that's what we've already done with the evaluation of the Mexican flu. Nothing happened to that, either. The question is: what can be done in the meantime? Do I hear the Minister talking about a middle ground? But that's just a cry, because he doesn't know how or what yet. Then the image that emerges to me is: the first version of the Twm, which was sent to the Chamber by the Cabinet, is simply to rule by decree for a year. That's what I called it. That's not what we're waiting for. That's actually the Twm 2.0, but in the minus as far as I'm concerned. Mr. Chairman. I very much have the dilemma of not getting the idea that what we have been asking for so long is happening. I find that really shocking. I said in the explanation of vote on the third extension that our assessment depends on how much has been transferred and whether only what is needed remains. I am now very curious about the Minister's answer to the questions put by Mrs De Boer. That may give rise to some interruptions, but for the time being the picture has not changed for us, and that is why we will vote against this fourth extension.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u158	Thank you, Mr. Janssen. Mr Nicolaï has the floor on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u159	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. I would just like to make sure that I have understood correctly on the issue of the amendment and its consequences that the Minister says: if there is a need for it, I will make sure that this is dealt with in more detail. I take it that's not the doctor who's gonna take care of it, but that's probably gonna end up with the State Department. I'd like to hear exactly what's going on. I had prepared a motion, but if so, it does not have to be filed. That was one point. The second point concerns the broad motion, which has already been raised. I imagine you should read that motion in this way, and I would like to tell the Minister that there is going to be a moment when the First Chamber comes into a compulsion position and says: if we don't get things moving, there's only one thing possible and that's voting like the SP and the PvdD do. They say: it is done, it should have been arranged long ago and we are not going to agree to extensions again and again. We have just had a discussion about the rule of law in Europe and then you have to explain to other countries, which we say is not right with them, that in the Netherlands a temporary law is being extended time and time again and that it means that the First Chamber actually has nothing to say. You'll be in your shirt, won't you? I can feel the Minister's sympathy for that, too. That's why he's talking about an interim bill. But how you turn it or turn it around, I think there will come a time when we too here in the First Chamber must say in a majority: and now it is done. I would like to repeat that to the Minister. Is it possible for him to speed up this legislative process, for all I care about this interim law, so that we are very quickly away from the situation that you would expect not in the Netherlands, but perhaps in another country of Europe, which our minister says: look how badly they are doing there? It's really just a downside. I'd like to ask you again. The Minister rightly says: "There may be new variants. We might have the bird flu or something later. You've got to have something up your sleeve." That's what I hear the Minister say. But getting that back in hand must be properly arranged. It should not be dealt with undemocratically. I think we should keep our finger on the wrist there anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u160	Are you at the end of your speech with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u161	Yeah, I think so. When I see you looking like that, I'm actually...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u162	I'd like to be sure, otherwise I'll give you a chance to finish.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u163	No, I'm not. I always listen with interest to Mr Van Hattem's questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u164	You're at the end of your speech?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u165	I have a question for Mr Nicolaï. He rightly notes that it is strange that the Netherlands takes the measure of other countries in Europe over certain laws and such, but continues to govern by decree with such a temporary emergency law. But at the same time I hear Mr Nicolaï pleading for this interim law. Can Mr Nicolaï indicate in which such an interim law, which is also a temporary law, an interim law, differs from such a temporary emergency law? This is because the same fundamental rights restrictive measures are laid down in such a law. Are not the fundamental rights measures at the heart of the problem? Shouldn't we just put a big line through that instead of moving it back from the temporary law to such an interim law?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u166	I'm not the law attorney of the Ministry. If I'd been there, that law would have been there. I'll tell you, because it won't be that hard. Second. An intermediate law doesn't have to be an undemocratic law at all. I think that Mr Van Hattem is confusing the question of taking measures and the existence of powers. The existence of the powers can be regulated in any law in such a way that these powers must sleep and be activated. To activate them you say: the First Chamber and the Second Chamber both have to say yes. Then you have a completely democratic situation, where deep action could be taken to violate fundamental rights. Whether these powers exist and can be activated is up to the two Chambers. That seems completely democratic to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u167	Mr Van Hattem, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u168	This is an important precondition, but one question still needs to be asked in advance: are these powers necessary in a democratic society? That question is being ignored too easily. We've had a situation for a long time now. Then you have to ask the question: should you continue to legislate on violations of fundamental rights of this kind? That is the question that needs to be asked in the first place. Now it's very easy, like: come up with an interim law. At least it will be better regulated in terms of legislation, but you still have to deal with these infringements.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u169	I think that Mr Van Hattem and I fully agree that you should not continue to do so. That is why the Animal Party will vote against this extension.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u170	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u171	Just a minute, Mr. Chairman. Every country, every state, always has something to offer for emergencies. Then you do not say: this legislation must be deleted. So it's not so crazy in itself to keep something out of hand for emergencies. It's about when you get to use these powers. That is the democratic point we need to discuss.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u172	Thank you, Mr. Nicolaï. I would like to take a look at Mrs Nanninga's question as to whether she wishes to speak in this time limit. That is not the case. Does one of the other Members still wish to speak in the second term? Mr Van der Voort. Oh, you filled out zero, Mr. Van der Voort. That has been upgraded by now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u173	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Having heard the debate so far, I felt the need to speak briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u174	How much time would you have liked?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u175	Well, I guess I can definitely do that in a minute and a half or two minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u176	Good. Then I'll give you two minutes. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u177	Thank you, Mr President. I am concerned about what is happening in this debate. I do not think there is any group that wants to go on with the Twm as it stands. The Minister makes a number of arguments. He has a concern about new variants and then no longer having action. That is, of course, an understandable concern. At the same time, he has the practical issue that tomorrow appears in the Official Journal of the European Communities a KB that cannot be adapted. So that's kind of a tricky situation we're in together. That being so, my group has the following question to the Minister. Does the Minister see the motion as it is now before us? I am referring to the broad motion, at least as an effort to give shape to this Chamber's wish in any way? Does he therefore feel the effort, with this motion and the deliberations that we have had here in mind, to shape this interim law as quickly as possible, or to clarify it in some way, whether or not with interim reports, letters or whatever? That's the question I still have for the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u178	When I look at the operative part of the motion, I do not quite understand Mr Van der Voort's appeal. He is now asking for an effort to be made towards an interim law which the Minister says he has no idea what that should be. Yes, then withdraw the motion. The Minister says that what is stated in the operative part of that motion is not feasible. He says: I can't do that either, and I'm not gonna do that, which is impossible. Do you say, then, that it has proved to be an unrealistic motion, do we still have to spend time on it and do we still have to put it to the vote? Or are we going to reduce it completely to something of an effort obligation for something completely different from what is being asked in the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u179	No, I'm not weakening anything. I'm just asking some extra questions about how the minister stands here, considering all these issues. I am very interested to hear his comments which we are about to receive in the second term. So it is not a question of weakening the motion, but of getting a little extra discussion about the Minister's thoughts and the options that remain.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u180	I just asked the Minister in the first term. Then he said: I can't do this, because tomorrow it's in the Official Journal; I can't change anything about it, it's what it is. That's what it's like now with a little change, so nothing's gonna change that. The operative part is about the fifth extension, of which the Minister says: I can't do anything about it anymore; it just comes as it comes. So I still do not understand Mr Van der Voort's appeal.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u181	It may well remain so, but we are just waiting for the Minister to react.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u182	Thank you, Mr. Van der Voort. Minister, are you able to answer directly the questions of the Chamber? That's the case. Then I will give the floor to the Minister of Health, Welfare and Sport.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u183	Mr. Chairman. I had one more question from Mr Van der Voort in the first term, so I think it would be a good idea if I took it with me. That's about a KB and a possible new KB. This is also in line with Mrs De Boer's call for clear criteria to be laid down in an interim law: how long, under which criteria and so on. The answer is yes, that is possible. I would like to give further input to that. I have already indicated that in March I will come up with a letter on the long-term approach to the corona pandemic and on pandemic preparedness at a later date. In that letter in March, I would like to go into more detail on criteria and so on, but also on the deadlines for such an interim act. That is also in line with Mr Van der Voort's question. I only use the same words: commitment and as soon as possible. I hope I have answered that with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u184	I would always like to have the commitment as concretely as possible. Can we look forward to a letter from the Minister in March setting out the main lines of the interim law? Is that the promise that is being made?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u185	The answer is yes. Mr Van der Voort had a supplementary question: in the meantime, is there any possibility of a new KB, i.e. during the next three months of the fifth extension? Yeah, it could be. However, we must realise that in practice a new KB takes a long time. That'll take about two months. So if we were to use that immediately, you could make the deadline that lasts for 1 May instead of 1 June. But that only applies if the whole process is set in motion in one go and goes through in one go.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u186	I understand that the Monday morning meeting was moved to Monday evening, at least, it seems. I wonder what the Minister's saying now. I keep looking at the operative part of the motion. That is not to be accepted unless... The Minister says: we should hope that the House of Representatives will not discuss this fifth extension before May. Because that is what will happen now if the Minister does not come forward with a prospect until March when there may be an interim law. But that is not going to be before 1 June, because I think the Minister has already indicated that. What do I hear the Minister say now? He's actually saying right now: that fifth extension is just gonna happen and it won't change in its unchanged form until 1 June.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u187	That's right, regardless of what is then discussed in the Lower House and later in this Chamber. I have indicated the reason for this. We now have a setting in which we have measures and think we still need them. Then we'll come back to the discussion of just now. I called it "the coat rack." You have the setting under which you may need measures and you have the measures yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u188	I was actually satisfied with the Minister's first sentence when he said that until 1 June we should not expect the fifth extension to be different from the one in the Official Journal tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u189	I have just answered Mr Janssen's question. Mr Van Hattem asked to start with indicators. I refer to my previous answers. He also referred to a multitude of articles in Follow the Money, de Volkskrant, Good Health et cetera. I am sorry, but I do not know the articles in question and I cannot therefore respond to them in substance. I distance myself from the suggestion that we're going to a biometric control company. We have just discussed the impact of the measures. If you make a comparison with a number of countries, where you have deliberately or less consciously chosen not to take measures, their impact, the number of deaths, etc., then this shows indirectly that measures have had an effect.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u190	Now it's gonna be beautiful! Now there is reference to deaths in other countries as an indicator of the effectiveness of policies here. But I would rather take this cabinet and this minister into account what is being done with its own measures and with the indicators that we ourselves lay down here. I still can't figure that out. I'm not just referring to those articles. The minister says he doesn't know about that. Well, I can't imagine the minister or at least his ministry wouldn't have known about that article of Follow the Money. In my opinion, this has led to the necessary discussion earlier in the House of Representatives. I would like to ask the Minister whether he can indicate, for my part, in writing, which indicators will guide the policy for the coming period. We have just been told that the version of the measures which will be in the Official Journal tomorrow will apply until 1 June, as the Minister intends. Then, when that period is over, at least we will have something to take back or to adjust during the process. The second is this. I'm not gonna quote those articles for nothing. It concerns the scientific basis used by the OMT for these opinions. I ask the Minister: how solid is the OMT's support? When reference is made to interest groups that come up with a calculation model and want to put a particular product on the market, namely such a digital ID, then perhaps we are dealing with an OMT that uses impure advice. I would like to hear the Minister's comments on that. If he says "I really don't know anything about this," which I can imagine while he's still new at this post, I'd like to get a written response to this in a letter. But I'd like to hear from the Minister about what he can and will do with this. That he says "I'm saying goodbye to a biometric control company," that's what the Volkskrant warned about. If the Minister does everything in his power to prevent that, then I would also like to hear what guarantees there are to waive it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u191	I hear Mr Van Hattem asking a lot of different questions in one very long sentence, first about indicators, then about the biomedical control society and about the OMT models, and I still believe about a number of other things. Let me start by focusing on the models of the OMT. I'm familiar with the results of those OMT models. I know, and I will not surprise you, the content and assumptions that are part of it, for example in various variants, in terms of the degree of illness, the level of protection by vaccines in relation to time, age and so on. I'm not doing the mathematical analysis underneath that model. I know what these models do in time and I have also seen when they performed better and less well; sorry for the bad Dutch. I also know that in the meantime RIVM consciously uses different models for this reason, to try to overcome those uncertainties. In doing so, I think I will answer your question sufficiently for now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u192	Finally, Mr. Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u193	The Minister is right to say that I have made a very long sentence of it, in which I have indeed asked several questions, not only about the justification of these models. I also asked about interest groups that have an interest in such a digital ID and that are actually at the OMT's table. Then I also asked a question about the indicators for the coming period. That is perhaps the most important question, given this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u194	The indicators we use and have used in the past period are, as I said, a mix, a combination of the number of infections, the number of hospitalisations, staff breakdown and impact on many other factors. I have just mentioned, for example, the great impact it has on our youth, in terms of the data we have from the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau. They were consciously a reason to be the first to ensure, for example, that physical education could start again in the past period. An important parameter. Then there is Mr Nicolaï's question. Yeah, it's true. I would very much like to pass it on to my colleagues from BZK and JenV with the request that they respond separately. Mr Otten asked about the Wob procedures. You refer specifically to the Wob procedures and the message about possible influence of the OMT. I'll take a look at you. That's what you're referring to, I take it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u195	I quoted a specific e-mail that came up in the Wob procedure. Everything points to your predecessor's. It was very cynical that the emergency law infringes fundamental rights, but he managed to come up with a few phrases for that. I wonder what the Minister thinks of that. It confirms what a lot of parties here in the First Chamber have said since the beginning, namely that this law is disproportionate and that the cabinet there knowingly already in May...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u196	Thank you, Mr. Otten. The Minister now knows what the question is. That was the Minister's only question. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u197	It's clear to me. I indicated earlier that I am not happy with the tone of some of the mails that have been made public. I can only say that these reports were made when various measures were being worked on at an extremely rapid pace at the beginning of a pandemic campaign and under very high pressure. I've been through that myself in a different setting and I know what happened at the time. I do not know so much what happened within the department, but I do know what happened in that situation in the care and therefore also in the department. I am unhappy with it, but I would ask you to understand that, under such circumstances, there has occasionally been a short turn of events. I want to stay out of those incidents myself. For example, I think it is important that there should be an overall response to an OVV report.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u198	I'm a little short on that. We have also had a lot of urgent debates on covid legislation under great pressure here in this First Chamber. Sometimes we were here three days a week. That does not mean that under pressure you can ignore fundamental rights. That attitude was definitely in those e-mails. There will probably be many more mails; this is just the beginning. That is a very serious situation. You hear all the time: it's so crowded, it's so crowded. If you're so busy, you need to hire better people at your ministry who can handle that pressure.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u199	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u200	Well, I think the Minister should really distance himself from the tone of those e-mails from his predecessor, in which there is a great disrespect for the fundamental rights of 17 million Dutch people.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u201	As I said myself, I am not happy with the tone of those e-mails. I think that's a lot to say. I'm not happy with it. I ask for some understanding of the setting in which they are written. We all remember them. As far as the Wob procedures are concerned, if I look at the analyses that have yet to be carried out and the amount of documents requested through a Wob procedure, then I think it is really wise that we take a look at the overall picture before I comment on the substance.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u202	Finally, Mr. Otten.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u203	Is it correct that the national attorney has been called in to enforce a provisional provision to delay the Wob procedure?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u204	That is not correct, in that the amount of documents requested through Wob procedures is such that even with a team of 100 lawyers only in my department it is still difficult to comply fully with all deadlines. That brings me to the end of the answer to the remaining questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u205	Thank you, Minister. Mr Nicolaï is not quite satisfied yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u206	I would like to ask the Minister about this. Mrs De Boer has already asked whether we could not get a look through in March, which could then include that interim law. The minister actually says: I need something; if I look now, something can happen every time and then I need something. But in emergencies, you have what you need. Those were just the emergency regulations at the start of the pandemic. My question to the Minister is: could it not be important for the First Chamber and also for the Second Chamber to consider: if I do not extend now, that toolbox will fall away, and what are the chances of me getting into trouble? Would I be able to deal with those problems which would then take a short time, because then you can't adopt a new covid law again with an emergency regulation? Then we have the most constitutional and democratic question that we really need to answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u207	Sometimes it looks like we're living in two different realities. When I see you walking to a cathedral, everything is cleaned first, the microphones also et cetera, which I look at a little bit and think: exactly how much risk are you in there? Very little, but it does happen and you're not surprised. If you walk off your couch there, put on your mouth cap and take it off again. That's our reality here. I share that, don't I? I am not saying that you should not, but that is our reality. At the same time, while we have recently been in the outside world with 100,000 infections per day, 100,000 per day; we have just come from there, we have consciously chosen, in close consultation with the healthcare sector, also speaking abroad, looking to countries around us, to open the schools, to open the sports venues, to open the restaurants and very large entertainment venues, to make dance parties possible again et cetera. Conscious, huh? Rightly so; I fully support that. I called it a calculated risk. I think it's really wise to do that. But we're running a certain risk with that. We have also heard the term "jojo policy" on a regular basis. That means that if you do that and you opt first for opening, then you also do certain controlling measures, just because it is wise, to offer some protection to someone aged 75 who wants to visit the grandchildren by train and can not wait and watch the platform in February: this train is too full; I wait for half an hour, but I have to get on that train anyway. Then we need a certain framework. That's under a temporary law now. We can find all sorts of things: that it is unhappy, that it takes too long. I understand all that, but I have no choice but to say to you now: okay, the alternative is that the temporary law will no longer apply. Then there are no further measures. Then I may return to you at some point for the vulnerable or for care or for whatever else, indeed with an emergency procedure.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u208	That's how we got back to the introduction. I am now going to end this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-6.u209	I come to deal with the bill 35979, Act amending renewalssystematiek and approve fourth extension duration Temporary measures covid-19. Mr Otten has already asked for a roll-call vote last week. Is this still the case? That's the case. We shall then vote by roll call tomorrow after the lunch break. I propose that we vote tomorrow on the motions tabled. A roll-call vote was requested by Mr Otten on his motion under letter F. Is that still the case? That's the case. We shall then vote on this motion tomorrow after lunch. I shall suspend the sitting for a few moments.
