ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-5.u1	The next item is the debate on a legislative proposal concerning the merging of the municipalities of Brielle, Hellevoetsluis and Westvoorne.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-5.u2	I would like to welcome the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations and also the members. There are five Members who would like to speak. First of all, Mr Bosma has already spoken on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-5.u3	That's right, Mr. Chairman. A municipal reclassification is always of great importance and an impressive subject. That is why I asked the ladies Aziz and Van Dijk to put on a uniform garment to give the whole thing a bit cheerleaderlike. They have indeed responded to this and today have exactly the same wardrobe on them. Thank you for that. Now let me get to the point, Mr President. Just after the Second War we had 9 million inhabitants in the Netherlands and they lived in 1,000 municipalities. Today, the numerator has reached 17 million inhabitants, but the number of municipalities has now fallen to 345. Today we carry three more for graves. An unstoppable train to mergers, to municipal reclassifications. It goes on and on. Minister Ollongren immediately demolished 30 municipalities 4 years ago after her arrival. This minister is coming out of the starting blocks with three more calmly. Can I ask the Minister if she intends to demolish as many municipalities as her predecessor? I was hoping she'd put the brakes on it. How will the minister be acting as minister for the next three years? What are her policy intentions in this area? The argument for reclassification is always the same: the new merging municipalities, as it is called, are given "administrative power." No one knows what that is. It's never defined anywhere, but mostly it sounds very decisive. It seems to be some kind of magic wand that allows municipalities to do things they couldn't do before. At first they sat in the dark, but flooop, there goes the light: they now have control. Finally, they can do something. But what is reality? Well, look at the research of the University of Groningen's COELO of 2013. This proves that such a merger does not reduce public expenditure at all. This applies to both small and large municipalities. So the argument of efficiency is simply wrong. Nor does it improve municipal facilities, nor does it increase the attractiveness of the municipality. On the other hand, something negative is happening: political engagement is falling. People vote less often. Ranking turnout rates. The recognition of the city council is decreasing. These municipalities also grow into large devices against which a city council, i.e. the citizen, is more difficult to make a fist. Local parties are gonna have a hard time, too. They are often organized by core, close to the people, and they are now drowning in a large fusion community. That's bad for democracy again. Professor Oud, founder of the VVD, said in 1956: "Efficiency is not the only thing it comes to in matters of governance. In the first place, the municipality can be seen as a community. When the municipality becomes an amorphic mass, the concept of local citizenship threatens to become a meaningless formula." That's right. Our former colleague Ronald van Raak used to ask the rhetorical question: whose is municipal democracy? That's a good question. Whose is the local democracy, or the lower floor of Thorbecke's house? On behalf of Mrs Leijten, who is not here today, I would like to ask the Minister: what exactly is left of the decision-making process at the bottom? Can you explain how many reclassifications have arisen in recent years as a result of the desire of municipal councils, regardless of tasks that could not be carried out or could not be paid? Can you say that something is democratic when the choice comes from tipping over the fence of many tasks, i.e. youth care, home care and spatial planning? It's all done by the Empire, without sufficient resources. That was a little paragraph Mrs Leijten e-mailed me this morning. Merged municipalities get their acclaimed administrative power, but magically it disappears after a while, and then we have to merge again, for new administrative power. It's like Asterix's magic potion. It wears off after a while. If I may say it a little more unkindly, the government seems like a junkie addicted to those mergers and over and over and over again has to put the needle in that vein. Example. The municipality of Brielle, which we are discussing today, was formed in 1980 by the merger of the municipalities of Brielle, Zwartewaal and Vierpolders. What was the reason? I don't know, but it was probably about that magical power of government back then, too. So it's already a fusion municipality, but it needs to be merged again. We need to get the needle back into the vein. Another shot of administrative power. With this merger of Brielle, Hellevoetsluis and Westvoorne again kilos of policy esperanto are turned over us. The bullshit bingo of administrators, the hour-invoice language of the TwynstraGuddes and Berenparts of this world, the consultants, the traders in hot air. We read in the Minister's explanatory statement: "The reclassification creates a powerful municipality that can serve its inhabitants well, can face social challenges with confidence and is a strong partner in the region." What does that management language mean? I'm not afraid of anything. Question to the Minister: What shows that all these things cannot already be done by the three separate municipalities? What is missing the inhabitants? What horrible miscarriage are we solving today? How is this merged municipality going to push up its territory in the run-up to the people? Mr. Chairman. This merger isn't gonna work either. That's my conclusion. How can I be so sure? Look at the 2013 COELO report. The three municipalities that we are going to place in the garbage today are functioning fine. Everyone knows the councilmen. The amenities are all running as desired. That is not so much my opinion as the very objective observation of my colleague Barry Madlener, who lives there. Nowhere were the inhabitants asked for their opinion. It's a merger of directors. Those drivers are very much in agreement with themselves. There is only one problem on the ground. That is the difficult financial situation of Hellevoetsluis, the largest core of the new merged municipality. Head in the newspaper: Hole in budget Hellevoetsluis even bigger than thought. There is a deficit of no less than 4 million euros. I have another quote: "The city council has commissioned research and the conclusions are devastating. The College has deleted all new plans." Well, the money pops out at Hellevoetsluis, even so much so that the municipality shut everything down. There isn't any more money for it, but fortunately there are still municipalities around to merge with. It's not the pissing off, it's letting the neighborhoods take the fall for your own financial mischief. Well, that's how I can do it! In practice, therefore, the slogan 'administrative power' has to mask administrative poverty. So the merged municipality is actually a kind of EU. As the Netherlands is allowed to pay for Italy and the rest of southern Europe in the transfer union, the new merged municipality finances Hellevoetsluis money mite. A month or so ago, President Zelensky of Ukraine spoke here before the House of Representatives. He referred to 1572. There was spontaneous panic in the benches of the MPs: "1572? What's that about?" Well, 1572 is about Brielle, Den Briel! That's when the water buzzards took over this town. They hoist our prince flag, orange-blank-bleu. Den Briel is of course also the city where the geuzen hanged the nineteen martyrs of Gorcum. Mr. Chairman. Why did we fight that war for 80 years? One of the great thinkers of the Republic of the Seven United Netherlands was Johannes Althusius, who wrote a lot about popular sovereignty and subsidiarity, i.e. the idea that the administration should be as close to the citizen as possible. That's why we became seven Dutch; not one, but seven. We didn't think it was such a good idea that we would be ruled from Madrid. The people were higher in the state doctrine of Althusius than the political leaders. Political leaders do not exercise their own power, but only delegated power. Hey wait, that's an answer to Ronald van Raak's question right away! Althusius also said: the government should respect the rights of the various relationships in which the people are united. Under the Republic we became a Confederation with a lot of power for cities and villages, or subsidiarity. It is painful that the thought of Althusius is now buried in Den Briel. So the geuzen might as well have skipped town. 1572 has been for nothing. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-5.u4	Thank you for your input. Oh, Mr. Van Houwelingen has another interruption for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-5.u5	It was a wonderful speech. I wholeheartedly endorse it. I have a question for Mr Bosma. The term "administrative power" is always used to put up a big smokescreen. It's a management term. You can't take that seriously as an argument, but why is this happening now? What's the underlying reason? To me, frankly, it's a mystery.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-5.u6	It happens because it happens. It happens because that's what they do. It has to do with all kinds of underlying things. Of course, it's much cooler to be a mayor or alderman of a much larger municipality. You'll have more budget. Then you can also roll over to an even larger municipality. It also has to do with the aversion of democracy. Of course, we see a trend in society that our democracy is becoming increasingly unpopular. In the circles of the left-liberal elite, they are shocked by the Brexit and Trump. They all hate that. Certainly the left-liberal parties.... D66 has been founded because it claims to bring democracy closer to the people... have changed 180 degrees of opinion and think democracy but terrible. That is why they have also abolished the referendum and want to do a lot of other things that make the citizen more powerless. What is more beautiful than to reduce the local government, our beautiful 1,000 municipalities that we had in 1945, and thus put democracy further away from the Dutch citizen? It fits in with a much broader trend. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-5.u7	Thank you for your answer. The next speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mr Strolenberg. He will speak on behalf of the VVD. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-5.u8	Thank you, Mr President. It will be a slightly different contribution from that of Mr Bosma. The merger of the municipalities of Brielle, Hellevoetsluis and Westvoorne into a new municipality of Voorne aan Zee takes place on the initiative of the municipalities themselves. I therefore wonder whether Mr Bosma has been in contact with these municipal councils, because it has been a unanimous decision. There is a positive view, also from Deputy States of the province of South Holland. And a bottom-up approach in which municipalities themselves take the initiative to go through such a process, I really only welcome it. It is very nice to see that, in this section, I will also look at the section on support for the development of the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-5.u9	The VVD says there is sufficient support, but how can the VVD know that if there are no local referendums on this subject in these municipalities?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-5.u10	I've been in touch with the city councils there. I don't know if you've had that, too. Those municipal councils, of course, also have democratic legitimacy. People have chosen the municipal councils there and have given the confidence that the directors there can make good choices. In addition, they have also launched various initiatives: they have organised civil panels and they have entered the neighbourhood. A lot of people have been involved in this. Mr Bosma states that no one who lives there has actually been heard. I'll fight that. If he has read the pieces correctly, then he also sees that a lot has been done about them.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-5.u11	I read the pieces very well. There has indeed been a lot of work done: civil panels have been organised, talks have been held. However, research after examination shows that these are not representative at all. For example, Tom van der Meer has shown that it is always the higher educated and the well-informed who participate in this type of participation. The only way to establish whether there is support among the population is through a referendum. That didn't happen. There have been countless reclassifications in this country in the past. Mr Bosma has already referred to it. There are often referendums organized. We know that if residents are given the choice between redefining or not, they will vote against massively. If we want to continue this process, we are against it; that will be clear: should there not at least be a referendum in these municipalities? If they choose to do so, then that's fine, and we're in favour of it. But if it's not, then we have to stop. Do you agree?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-5.u12	I am very much in favour of involving citizens in choices, but not in the form of a binding referendum.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-5.u13	The VVD screens again with all kinds of civilian panels, but that's just the cabal coming to those meetings. Those are the GroenLinksers and D66'ers. Those are the NRC Handelsbladreaders and VPRO people. They'll come to meetings like that. But Mr Strolenberg can't say with dry eyes that somehow it turns out that the inhabitants of those three municipalities want this merger.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-5.u14	At least I know they really went into the neighborhoods in Brielle. I think they've gone to fourteen districts, where all kinds of people have been invited to give feedback there. The municipality of Hellevoetsluis also had a whole series of population meetings and also a civil panel with 2,700 people who contributed. Westvoorne had a civilian panel with 802 people. There too you can see that a lot of feedback has actually been given. You will of course notice in a municipal reclassification that residents are always a bit afraid that everything will be a bit more remote and that sort of thing. I believe that the further cooperation with these three municipalities will also strengthen all kinds of societal challenges, such as sustainability and digitalisation. Go and arrange that for a municipality with 14,000 to 15,000 inhabitants! That is very difficult today, with the complexity there is. I think those municipal councils have seen very well that an intensive form of cooperation will strengthen it. Whether that's an administrative merger, an official merger or whatever; municipalities themselves have the choice. I think they got that right.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-5.u15	I would also like to ask Mrs Leijten's question. Of course, a lot more has arrived on the sign of municipalities. I mention, for example, the decentralisation of youth care; well, you know the list better than I do. Doesn't that contribute, doesn't that actually force municipalities to merge, just to make themselves bigger? Isn't that also a tendency that causes a lot of municipalities to disappear? So is it the logical consequence of Haag's policy that we see, among other things, today in this municipal reclassification?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-5.u16	Yes. You mentioned 1945 with 1,000 municipalities, while there are now 344 or 345. I myself have been active in the city council for 12 years. I also point out the complexity. Now we have the waste tax. It used to be just picking up garbage, and that's it. Today we are working on circular economy and collecting separately. There's a lot more to that than just picking up the plastic bag and bringing it to the incinerator. There's gonna be a lot more in there. I would just like to mention digitisation, but also economic strengthening of the municipalities and security issues. I think that there is already a great deal of challenge in many of those things that are simply part of the basic tasks of the municipalities. You mentioned the decentralisations. Ultimately, here in The Hague, we chose to organise certain tasks as close to the citizen as possible. So a little less here from The Hague or a little less from the province, but really in the municipalities themselves. Yes, that will make you need stronger municipalities, with more knowledge and specializations.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-5.u17	Mr. Van Houwelingen, you'd actually already been here. You're allowed one more follow-up interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-5.u18	The municipality of Hellevoetsluis has 40,000 inhabitants. Then the VVD says: that is not enough to carry out all these decentralisations, all these new tasks. That's basically what it's all about. Now there are sovereign states in Europe, such as Liechtenstein and Andorra, which have fewer inhabitants than Hellevoetsluis. They must of course do much more than the municipality of Hellevoetsluis. How the hell can it be that the municipality of Hellevoetsluis has to become even larger? It's already a colossal municipality of Hellevoetsluis to carry out these tasks? Then it is at least true that these tasks have been carried out far too intricately. Then the problem lies not with these municipalities, but with the State or with the European Union. Surely it cannot be that a municipality of 40,000 inhabitants is too small, whereas there are sovereign states, which have to carry out many more tasks, which can do so well.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-5.u19	You compare one country to another. I think that makes a difference. Look, there may be no immediate and acute governance problem here. I also think they want to be in favour of that now. They don't do this when there's trouble, but they look at the moment when they can take chances. Let me give you another example of why I am excited about this new municipality of Voorne aan Zee: as an official organisation you are a much more attractive employer. It's really hard to find staff these days. All right, that's an answer to Mr Van Houwelingen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-5.u20	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-5.u21	In any case, I have seen that many inhabitants, companies and drivers support this plan. This has given rise to support, and this is an important criterion in the ministerial policy framework. At the VVD we also think it is important that there is always support. The municipalities already work together in all kinds of areas and they have no acute governance problem. But I think they also see that they are vulnerable in a number of areas and that they also want to take advantage of the opportunities I mentioned in terms of sustainability, economic strengthening or tackling security. Whether it is a municipal reclassification or an official merger, it is very nice that in the Netherlands we give the space to municipalities to shape it ourselves. This is clear from the realization that cooperation can provide a bit of efficiency, but also for stronger and more qualitative municipalities, which are ultimately better able to arrange services for their residents. And as I said, it's hard to attract people, especially when the labour market is cramped. This is why I would like to express my support for the merger of these three municipalities. I would also like to congratulate the three municipalities and wish the new city council, which will be elected in November, every success.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-5.u22	Thank you very much for your input. The next speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mrs Inge van Dijk. She will speak on behalf of the CDA. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-5.u23	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In this debate we are asked to speak out for or against a merger of Brielle, Hellevoetsluis and Westvoorne on the South Holland island of Voorne. It is a combination of three municipalities, ten cores, 72,000 people and a rich history. 1 April 1572, the intake of Brielle: the beginning of the birth of the Netherlands and a turning point in the Eighty Years' War. In this anniversary year 1572-0222 the values of freedom, tolerance, connectedness and diversity are central. Today we're not talking about rethinking, we're talking about rethinking. The CDA is against reclassifications that are imposed and not worn from below, i.e. by its own residents. Fortunately, this merger takes place precisely on the initiative of the municipalities concerned. The three municipalities are convinced that the reclassification has added value and that there is a strong municipality that can serve its inhabitants well, face social challenges with confidence and is a strong partner in the region. There is political local support, according to the decisions in the three municipal councils. Aren't there any worries? Of course, there are concerns and concerns. As far as the CDA is concerned, they are also very legitimate, such as the issue of livingability, the individual character of the various cores and a quality and nearby service to the inhabitants. Attention should also be paid to the private accommodation and the maintenance of the amenities. Maybe they look like open doors, but we all know the examples of reclassifications where the reclassification has resulted in distance to residents. Because even though you are one municipality and as a director you make choices that are in the interests of the whole municipality, you don't get away from having to do customization when it is necessary to maintain the character of the various cores. Investing in together is also investing in uniqueness. Residents are actively involved through home-to-home questionnaires, neighbourhood evenings, separate meetings for civil society organisations, city debates, citizen panels and population meetings. Every church did that for itself, and that's fine. It does justice to the individuality of these municipalities in search of cooperation. The joint digital futures guide has also provided important input that has been taken into account. Then there is a concern: the finances. At the request of the three municipalities concerned, the province of South Holland carried out a financial reclassification scan. This scan shows that the multiannual estimates of all three municipalities are not in structural and real balance. This is due on the one hand to the policy choices of the municipalities themselves, but on the other hand it is due to a downward trend in the municipal finances that many municipalities see. Merging offers financial opportunities. There are several savings options, the studies say. I can imagine. But knowing this and knowing the wishes of the inhabitants with regard to maintaining the level of provision, I am concerned. Are the financial opportunities not, in fact, particularly in terms of saving on services, saving on services close to the inhabitants? If that is the case, many inhabitants will be disappointed in the short term and a positive attitude may become resistance and that would be a shame. I would like to hear from the Minister whether these concerns are justified and whether these talks with the three municipalities have been conducted in this way. Mr. Chairman. I am still very curious about the Minister's answer, but we also see broad support for this merger from the bottom up, and that is what leads us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-5.u24	Thank you very much for your input. I call Mrs Dekker-Abdulaziz, who will speak on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-5.u25	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing the municipal reclassification of Brielle, Hellevoetsluis and Westvoorne. I am pleased to read that local administrators have gone through the process of reclassification with great care and attention to social support. As far as D66 is concerned, a municipal reclassification should not lead to a greater distance between the citizen and local government. People must continue to recognise themselves in the administration, because this should not damage confidence in politics and government, especially in view of the historically low turnout last March. The municipalities must be given the opportunity to choose their merger partners themselves, and residents must be given the opportunity to express their views. All three municipalities have organized good routes, but of course we have lived in the corona pandemic for two years. Can the Minister indicate to what extent the coronapandemic has played a role in the participation of residents on this subject? Mr. Chairman. The question we have to ask ourselves every time is why municipalities want to merge. It is true that the tasks of the municipalities are becoming more complex. It is true that the municipalities face increasing challenges. It is true that in some municipalities the local facilities disappear and that local residents no longer recognize themselves in their administration and feel that the quality of life of their environment has been reduced. Do municipal reclassifications take place because local administrators feel compelled to merge in view of the tasks? It is sometimes better to opt for a reclassification rather than a common arrangement, because a reclassification better guarantees democratic legitimacy, but it remains a dilemma. For the future, we would like to ask the Minister to consider how we can solve the problem of the increasingly complex tasks for municipalities and their democratic legitimacy. Can the Minister say something about this and, above all, talk about common rules? Mr. Chairman. This reclassification has come from below. The councils wanted this and therefore D66 supports this reclassification. We would have liked to go there with the whole committee for a work visit, but there was not enough enthusiasm for that. I would like to press my colleagues, including myself, to go there next time. Finally, how do we ensure that the facilities remain at the level and that this reclassification does not result in the community center, library and school disappearing from the village? I'd like a reflection from the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-5.u26	Thank you very much for your input. Finally, Mr Van Houwelingen, who will speak on behalf of the FVD, has the floor from the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-5.u27	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. One of the biggest problems we face in this country is the brainless scaling up of all our institutions. Whether it's housing corporations, schools or hospitals, it goes on and on. Today we are also talking about such an example of brainless scaling in our eyes, namely the reclassification, the merging of the three old, characteristic and beautiful municipalities Brielle, Hellevoetsluis and Westvoorne in the province of South Holland. These three municipalities are merged into one large synthetic management community, where residents will feel like a number, where anonymity increases, where it has already been said that distance from government will increase. It's not working. It's not working. We also see it in other forms of scaling up. It's not more efficient. The quality is decreasing. We have seen it in mergers such as Air France-KLM or the national police: it does not work, but it goes on and on. Also this reclassification will not work. This has been demonstrated for decades by administrative experts in all kinds of investigations. It's really amazing. For example, Professor Bas Denters wrote an essay in the nineties: the success of failing policies. This is about this reclassification policy and it is therefore successful, because every year, on average, about ten municipalities disappear. You can set the clock to that. Only then all indicators are negative, the effects of these reclassifications. In other words, the quality of facilities is declining. The cost per head of population, as Mr Bosma has just said, is increasing. A professor in Groningen, with his COELO institute, has researched this over and over again: costs are increasing. We're just more expensive. The residents are more expensive. We believe that democracy is being undermined. A lot of research has been done on this, among others by Professor Bas Denters at the University of Twente. The bigger a municipality we see that not only in our country, we see that in other countries; everywhere we see that the less the inhabitants are involved in a municipality and the less quickly they vote, for example. That's what we saw in the last municipal election. There the turnout was historically low and that is, I think, due, among other things, to that scaling up. The inhabitants of municipalities feel like a number and wonder what else they have to do with this municipality. I don't know all those neighborhood cores anymore. If I have a problem, where am I gonna go? In the municipality of Schiermonnikoog you can address the alderman or the mayor, but not in those colossal new municipalities that we are now creating. So we are extremely opposed and we see that in other areas as well. I would like to emphasise that. I even have a book on conversations: Microphobia. I left it with you. I'll send you a copy through the messenger. I hope you read it. The fear of the small, microphobia, or the cult of the colossal. It shows that this scaling-up leads to bureaucracy, to anonymity. Residents who feel expropriated. Parents who no longer recognize a school because large school boards are merged. So it is really something very bad that we are suffering from here in the Netherlands, but probably also in other countries, and that has to stop. So we're against this reclassification. We could only be in favour of it, as I said just now, if the inhabitants of all those municipalities had said in local referendums: okay, fine, we want to get together. Then I would still advise against it, but also say: who are we to be against it? But none of these three municipalities have organized a local referendum. So there's no support. That has not been demonstrated in any way. We know from the past that in local referendums, when people can choose, they often vote against such a reclassification. Because they don't want to lose their old congregation. One example of this is the municipality of Haren. He was forced to join the municipality of Groningen. Against the will of the inhabitants, for 75% of the inhabitants of Haren voted against it. A lot went wrong there, too. Even books have been published on that. That's how the Resistance of Haren came out a few weeks ago. The researcher is Mr. Lunsing. It needs a book to describe what went wrong. The Chamber has been misinformed by the province in particular, I must add. Administrative agreements have not been fulfilled. We are therefore putting forward an initiative proposal to rectify this injustice. That's already been filed. I must say that the Home Office has been very helpful to us, so thank you for that. We're hoping that thinking can turn upside down sometime. That really is a question for the Minister. We should not always think in terms of merging, but perhaps also once in terms of unsplitting, because that is perhaps better. We are therefore opposed to this reclassification, but if it has to continue, please organise this also a question for the Minister, at least local referenda in these three municipalities. That can be done very quickly and it can be done very easily. And okay, if the residents vote in favour, then there is support. The Minister claims, I assume, that there is therefore support and so does the Chamber, at least the VVD has just said so. Then that's not a problem and you can still organise a referendum? That's how you prove it. Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna finish up, I see...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-5.u28	No, no, Mr Strolenberg would like to interrupt you. I'll give him the floor first.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-5.u29	I am thinking about what I have to interrupt now, but Mr Van Houwelingen indicated that he would be in favour of a possible merger, if that is what the people have actually said about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-5.u30	In a referendum, all three, where the choice...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-5.u31	No, no, Mr. Strolenberg first.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-5.u32	Now I am confused, because a few weeks ago we discussed a binding referendum here in the Chamber, and then your foreman said: I am not in favour of it and I will not vote in favour of it. Could you perhaps explain to me how you see that exactly?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-5.u33	I'm so glad you asked this question. That gives me the opportunity to bring our Members' referendum to the fore. We organize a member referendum among our own members on Friday. Everyone's invited, by the way. We have 60,000 members, after all, we are the largest member party in the Netherlands. Those of us can decide whether to vote for or against that bill. We in the Chamber are, of course, very much in favour of a binding referendum. We are going to vote as our Members will vote, of course, but this has come to the fore in the debate; I can repeat all of this here if you want us all to be in a dilemma about that bill. I'm leaning forward, our party leader leans toward it again. So we're sitting here in dubio, which can happen, and that's why we're putting it up to our members. That seems very democratic. They're gonna decide eventually. So thank you for the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-5.u34	You're finishing up.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-5.u35	I'm gonna wrap it up. I see I have to finish too. So the conclusion is that this reclassification isn't gonna work. It will increase costs. The quality of the facilities is deteriorating. Democratic involvement is decreasing. So we're against this reclassification. An appeal also to the minister: please let the Dutch live in human communities where they can feel at home. That's what we want. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-5.u36	Thank you for your input. That was the same as the contribution of the Court in the first term. I shall suspend the sitting until 12.35 p.m. so that the Minister can keep her first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-5.u37	The next item is the legislative proposal for the merger of the municipalities of Brielle, Hellevoetsluis and Westvoorne. We need the first term from the government. I give the floor to the Minister of the Interior and Kingdom Relations. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-5.u38	Thank you, Mr President. Today, the legislative proposal to reorganise the municipalities of Brielle, Hellevoetsluis and Westvoorne is indeed central. These municipalities intend to form the municipality of Voorne aan Zee on 1 January 2023. This is a process that has been going on for a long time, as some Members have mentioned. Since 2013, the possibilities for cooperation have been explored. The municipal councils, because they ultimately decide on the reclassification advice, see added value in this municipality, because in this way they aim to be better able to tackle their social task, also together with the region. Some questions have been asked about this, and I will come back to that later. If we then look at the criteria and policy frameworks for municipal reclassification that we have dealt with here under my predecessor in the Chamber, then we see that this legislative proposal at least meets the aspects of support and regional cohesion. It is a intended municipality, as several of you have pointed out, with a long history, such as the history of Brielle, of which the various current municipalities are proud, with a beautiful location by the sea, which also comes back to the intended new name, Voorne aan Zee. Mr. Chairman. A number of questions have also been asked about support, about how this has been or has not been tested. The first question, from Mrs Dekker, was: how did the participation take place during the corona period? A large part of the participation, as decided by the Councils, took place before 2019. It's a long-standing process. The final decision-making process and the development of the future vision of the municipalities took place during the period of restrictive measures. This has mainly been resolved by the municipalities by organising online meetings, surveys and the like. As has already been pointed out in the discussion between members, it is of course up to the councils themselves to shape the participation process. The Municipal reclassification Policy Framework does, however, include the need to keep a log of exactly how the participation takes place. It is important that the inhabitants are properly involved. Only, the cabinet leaves it up to the municipalities themselves to fill this out, because ultimately the councils were naturally elected by the inhabitants of the municipalities. They must be able to decide for themselves how to shape participation. Whether it is a citizen consultation or a referendum, it is up to the Council to shape that. However, they have to account for this in the reclassification opinion. Mr. Chairman. While I say that, I also realize that Mr Van Houwelingen gave me a book. Thank you for that book, I would like to say to Mr Van Houwelingen. I'm going to read it with interest. I won't say I'm going to do that right away in the next few weeks, but I'm definitely gonna open it up and make sure I'm gonna take that up. Thanks for the book.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-5.u39	You're welcome. I hope you'll read it. I understand the Minister's logic, but this is, of course, about a reclassification, i.e. the lifting of the oldest administrative layer in the Netherlands, in fact, about the first administrative layer. In such an important decision, where municipalities disappear, should at least that question not be put directly to the inhabitants, as we should, for example, do in the case of major treaty changes? This is about the sovereignty of the municipalities, you might say. It's gonna disappear, 'cause those three municipalities are gonna disappear. The municipalities have done nothing to present this question directly to the inhabitants in a referendum.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-5.u40	What Mr Van Houwelingen says is true. It is about municipalities that actually give up their autonomy, because the municipal councils abolish themselves. They also say that they want to join a new municipality. Therefore, the General Rules Act, which the Court has established here, states that municipalities make that decision themselves. In the policy framework, we have stated that they must test the basis of their support. But since it is the municipal councils themselves who are concerned with their own autonomy, whether or not they abolish themselves as a church, it is also up to them to fill in this as a representative body, as council members. This can be done with a citizen consultation, with a referendum, but we did not impose it from above from the Empire. However, we have indicated in the policy framework: responsible as a municipality, as a council, in the reclassification advice on how civil participation took place. This has been done with civil consultations and a number of other instruments. But we're not imposing a referendum.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-5.u41	Thanks to the Minister. The city council is the head of the municipality of the municipality of the municipality of the municipality of the municipality of the municipality of the municipality of the municipality of the municipality of the municipality of the municipality of the municipality of the municipality of the municipality of the municipality of the municipality of They're people's representatives. "Sovereignty" is a somewhat crazy concept, but let's say that "the local autonomy" of a municipality is not owned by those representatives of the people, but by the people in that municipality. Don't they give away something they can't actually give away because it's not theirs? Do you understand my logic? Again, shouldn't they be putting this question to the residents? You've come up with this bill. As a minister, of course, you are also responsible. Should the Empire not insist on this, as it is: this is such a heavy decision; we can only take that decision if we are sure that the inhabitants will carry that decision through a referendum?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-5.u42	It is, of course, important that residents are properly involved in municipal reclassifications and that this takes place in different fora, with citizen consultations, a referendum or online consultation. It really stands up that it has to be done. This is also stated in the Municipal reclassification Policy Framework. Mr Van Houwelingen asked: is the municipality actually competent to transfer its autonomy to other municipalities? Do municipalities actually represent the entire population? It's a representative democracy. The elections are organised in such a way that, at the time of the vote, the council also represents the population in the municipality. A municipality must certainly hear the inhabitants. It's good to just take a look at the key. Mr Van Houwelingen also asked: does a referendum mean that people vote in favour or not? The last two referenda were in Grave and Mill and Sint Hubert. They voted in favour of it. In the civil consultations of Druten and Wijchen, for example, it appeared that residents were opposed. They didn't do it then either. It is therefore not legal: citizen consultation does not always mean that it is going on and that residents are not being heard. Mr Van Houwelingen did not say that either, but I would like to stress that there is no law. Mr. Chairman. Then there's the issue of finance. That is an important, timely point. A new city council really wants to work together and wants to do so in a good way. We understand from the current municipal councils that they really intend to maintain the current level of provision. In doing so, the various municipal councils and their lectures themselves are making a real effort at the moment to see how they make their financial starting position as good as possible. That is indeed a point of interest. The councils are now working on a joint strategic vision, a framework note and a budget of the new municipality. So they don't leave this to the new council as of January 1st, but they really try to put it into practice. They do so in good consultation with the county, which is watching. The province is also the supervisory body. Mr. Chairman. Then Mr Bosma asked about my view on municipal reclassifications. I realize that Mr Bosma and I are looking at municipal reclassification in a different way. Mr Bosma is even more concerned with 'don't worry', if I sum up briefly. I do agree with Mr Bosma that the municipal reclassification is not a solution for everything. It is therefore really important that the municipal councils come to a decision with each other and that they see a municipal reclassification as an added value for the future for their inhabitants, so that they can work better together. I also recognise the argument that a municipal reclassification does not always lead to efficiency or is cheaper. On the one hand, I can see that a larger municipality with more inhabitants, that is what Mr Strolenberg said, is also really capable of building a firmer administrative apparatus, with more expertise. On the other hand, a larger municipality can also have a better position in a region to properly address certain issues that live. Then my course on municipal reclassification. There are a number of points where we need to take a closer look at whether that is secure. This can be seen, for example, in the reclassification of five lord countries, where there were problems with cross-border security regions. I do not foresee a change of course with regard to the current reclassification policy. Mrs Leijten's question, which Mr Bosma has passed on, is: is it true that some municipalities are starting to reorganise because they are faced with heavier tasks in areas such as social support and youth care? I recognize that a number of Members have also pointed out that in certain municipalities, they unfortunately have to decide to reorganise each other by decentralisation of tasks. On the other hand, I see municipalities working together to provide a good answer. I also see municipalities that manage to carry it out independently. In that context, I think it is particularly important to say that, in my role as Minister of the Interior, I want to take a test of implementation of local authorities. That's what I'm saying to Mrs Leijten. With such a test of implementation, we can simply make it much more clear at the front of transferring tasks from the Empire to municipalities whether the means, powers and responsibilities are in balance. And can municipalities and provinces get along with this? I am currently developing these instruments together with the local authorities.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-5.u43	There is an interruption by Mr Strolenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-5.u44	I'm just gonna find a hook for those resources. We have, of course, also discussed the redistribution of the Community fund in debates. For example, this fixed base, a contribution per municipality, has gone up a bit. If a municipality then merges, it will, of course, be reduced on balance. It may also be good to hear from the Minister whether it is still attractive and remains, also financially, to merge. Isn't the new Municipal Fund going to counter that again?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-5.u45	In my first picture I have, at least that is not the case. However, if this new municipality is to be created, I think it would be a good idea to make a proper calculation of all aspects in the context of the redistribution of the Municipal Fund. Mr Bosma did indeed ask how hard it is now with the reclassifications. I thought I'd go back anyway. In 2018, there were indeed four reclassifications, which came from below. In 2019 there were twelve reclassifications, ten of which came from underneath. Mr Bosma also referred to this. The year 2020 was a year without reclassifications. And in 2021, there were two reclassifications from below.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-5.u46	Yes, so the Minister says that her policy on municipal reclassifications will not change. Now I mentioned the example of the municipality of Brielle, a municipality that we actually abolish today. That was already a merged municipality in which three municipalities were merged. So that merged municipality is being merged today. But I understand that there is a good chance that we will be back here in five or six years' time and that the new municipality we are creating today will also merge again. So the train with municipal reclassifications continues. In other words, the administration is going to be farther away from the citizen. It's just gonna happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-5.u47	I think it is particularly important that it is ultimately up to the municipalities to examine with each other whether they want to reorganise. In addition, the question of the involvement of residents in the policy and in the choices made in a municipality is, of course, also wider than just the issue of municipal reclassification. I am also working on a legislative proposal on strengthening the participation of residents, and also on challenging rights.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-5.u48	Yeah, well. The minister says, "if municipalities want it." Municipalities want that. They want scaling up. That's the cult of the collossal. And so my simple prediction is that we are here today to create this municipality, and that we will be back here in five, six, seven years, living and well-being, because this municipality will then merge with Spijkenisse, and then we will create an even bigger municipality. And in the end, all the municipalities will be as big as provinces. Or is it a really weird prophecy I'm doing right now?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-5.u49	I don't have a glass ball, so to speak. But I do see, for example, the choices of municipalities to reorganise or not, that I will not share equally the speed train that Mr Bosma describes. At the same time, I think that the issue of how to ensure that municipalities are able to perform their functions is absolutely an important issue. And the municipalities must also be able to involve their residents in policy. That is why, I say to Mr Bosma, I also think it is important to move forward with, for example, the legislative proposal on participation in the decentralised administration.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-5.u50	Can you finish up, Mr. Bosma?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-5.u51	That bill doesn't say anything about referenda. That's too bad. However, if we maintain the metaphor of the express train for a while, then I simply note that the trend is with municipalities: large, larger, largest. And I note that this Minister is not going to pull the emergency brake.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-5.u52	On the referendum, there is an initiative legislative proposal by Mrs Leijten which also allows for a referendum at a decentralised level. But it is up to the Chamber to take a final decision on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-5.u53	The Minister repeats a few times: it is mainly up to municipalities, who have to know for themselves whether they are going to reorganise or not. But the Minister is also responsible for democracy in the Netherlands. It's part of the Home Office, too. I have appointed it: research after research shows that democratic involvement, the chance of people voting, is smaller in a larger municipality. Doesn't the Minister also have the responsibility to say that this is not good for local democracy? We have seen this in the last municipal elections, with a turnout that was very low. Shouldn't she say: let's stop doing that, let's put a brake on that? Isn't that also the Minister's responsibility?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-5.u54	Mr Van Houwelingen indicated that the turnout in the municipal elections was low. The figures were lowest since the 1970s. That is precisely why I am evaluating these municipal elections in greater detail and researching them than previous municipal elections in order not only to find out what the causes are, but also to see what we can do about them. I share the importance of involving people in democracy. This can be done in different ways: with referenda, with participation, but also with council members who can do their job well. With regard to all these aspects, it is necessary to see what we can or cannot contribute. I will come in the autumn with a letter on strengthening the decentralised administration.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-5.u55	Let me put the question a little more precisely: does the Minister at least acknowledge, is she also concerned about this, that research after research shows that democratic involvement, participation, is reduced in larger municipalities, and that this in itself can be a reason, perhaps also for the Ministry, to put a stop to that process? Does she recognize that this is a problem?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-5.u56	My view is that there are indeed studies on the involvement of municipalities and the size of municipalities that say it is getting worse. In the past there have also been studies that have indicated that it does lead to an improvement, but that this often also depends on how a municipality itself implements it. The council members, together with the aldermen, can really make a difference.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-5.u57	I happen to know a thing or two about this. I did some research on that myself in a previous life. You're quoting other investigations. Yes, there are, but that's why we have meta-examinations in science. A number of them have also been carried out; I have written a few articles about them myself. This clearly shows that researchers, i.e. in studies where research is stacked, know that it is indeed so, in all countries and not only in the Netherlands, that the chances of citizens voting decline as the municipalities are larger. That's what reclassification studies have been done. You may refer to one study, I think I know very precisely what was done in Denmark. In this Danish merger, about ten years ago, all kinds of municipalities merged. This would show that it does not matter so much for participation. But that has come to the wrong conclusion, probably also due to pressure from the Danish government. That conclusion, which is actually incorrect, has been translated into English like the study itself, and it has taken over the Ministry of the Interior, as I happen to know. This is always used as an example, but that is something that is not right when you look at the underlying tables. This is still being used as an example. That's research that points the other way, but that investigation doesn't even add up. The main point I want to make is that meta-research shows that the connection is rock hard, as hard as it can be in the social sciences. I'll just give it to you. I gave you the book. It's in there, by the way. Perhaps you can read it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-5.u58	In any case, it is nice that Mr Van Houwelingen indicates that there are several studies with different results as well. It is also a matter of ensuring that council members have the tools and the ability to go outside enough to talk to residents, that they are not loaded with thick pieces of paper and then ask them for inscrutable decision-making. The support and support of council members to do their job properly as representatives of the people is therefore also extremely important. Mr. Chairman. One final question from Houwelingen: it is true that municipalities can also choose to split up. The last split known to us dates back to 1971. Then Ermelo split up in Nunspeet and Ermelo. Municipal councils can therefore also decide to split up, as has been shown in the past. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-5.u59	Thank you for your input, Minister. Is there a need for a second term? I see that at least Mr Van Houwelingen needs that. Do other spokesmen need it? That is not the case. I'm going to suspend for a very short time.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-5.u60	We will continue with the second term of this legal treatment, of this municipal reclassification. I believe that the only speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mr Van Houwelingen. I'll take a look at the members, see if that's true. Yes. I'll give him the floor immediately. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-5.u61	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll be very brief. I have one motion that I have tabled with Mr Bosma. You will understand that it is about the lack of democratic support, in our view. I'll read the motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas sufficient support is essential for a municipal reclassification;]] [[noting that this can only be established by means of a municipal referendum;]] [[calls on the government in each of the three municipalities of Brielle, Hellevoetsluis and Westvoorne to submit to the public in a referendum whether the inhabitants are in favour of or against this reclassification,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Houwelingen and Martin Bosma.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35967-7]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-5.u62	I am curious to see to what extent you have also agreed with the municipal councils there and whether this will make it easier for them.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-5.u63	Thank you for the question. We just came up with the motion, so it's a little short to agree with the city councils. But we are concerned, as I said in my speech and in interruptions, with the inhabitants of the municipalities. That is where we have the legitimacy to legitimise such a reclassification or not. They'll have to give it to you. So it's actually separate from the city council.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-5.u64	Have I understood correctly that you have not been in contact and that you do not know to what extent you are facilitating municipal councils there?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-5.u65	No, we haven't had any contact with the city councils.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-5.u66	As the Minister said, this route has been going on for a long time. You say you want to do this in the interests of the people. Then why didn't you come forward with the proposal much earlier? Because it has been known for some time that the municipalities have the ambition to be able to take the next steps as of 1 January to facilitate their inhabitants better.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-5.u67	As I have just said, we are always in favour of referendums. We think that they should always be kept in redeployments. It is of course very late in this process, I understand, but the idea behind this motion is as follows. We'll put it in front of the locals. That can be very simple with DigiD; that is really not difficult. If there is sufficient support for this, I think that the Chamber and the cabinet are going to go there at the moment. Then we can just keep going. If that is not the case, then we think that we should re-examine the bill. So there's really no risk or anything. The people can speak out. They can only be happy about that. If they're in favour, they'll vote in favour. If they vote against, they can vote against. Who could be against that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-5.u68	I am particularly concerned that, if you are serious about this, I would have expected that you would have come forward with this much earlier. Now it feels a bit like mustard after the meal to make a point. Actually, I think you're really failing the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-5.u69	We're repeating ourselves. That's right. You could have come up with this sooner. Next time we will try to be even faster, but we have the debate now, so this is also the time to table a motion, I think. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-5.u70	Thank you. That makes us... Oh, still a question, an interruption, Mrs Dekker-Abdulaziz? Ah, you'd like to ask the Minister. That's a little unusual, but since you waive your second term, I'll give you... no, Mr. Van Houwelingen, you can sit down. Very briefly, Mrs Dekker-Abdulaziz.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-5.u71	Sorry, Chairman. I've got another missing question. I had asked the Minister about the dilemma of reclassification versus a common arrangement and about the democratic legitimacy of a common arrangement. While she's at it...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-5.u72	Okay, good. I'm gonna take a look at the minister. Can she appreciate the motion and answer the question right away? Yes, she can. I'll give her the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-5.u73	Thank you, Mr President. Mrs Dekker-Abdulaziz asked about the democratic legitimacy of regional cooperation. This is a subject that has also been discussed in the framework of the Common Regulations Act over the past period. This revised bill will enter into force on 1 July. On the contrary, it contains a number of elements in which councils are given the opportunity to present a view on major decisions. The coming into effect, the organizing, the re... yeah, how could you say that? They must have the right of assent when establishing a scheme under the Common Regulations Act. There are also a number of areas where there is a right of investigation. That is precisely what Mrs Dekker is putting forward. At the same time, municipalities also work together on many other aspects. In this you can see that it is also important for lectures to give their councils the opportunity to properly monitor decision-making and to ensure that they can have a say in it, so that this is the subject of the debate. In the letter I am about to send on the strengthening of the decentralised administration, I will also go into that further. At the same time, I see a number of very good examples of councils that agree with their lectures on the different forms of cooperation. It's him on the one hand in regulation and on the other hand in the way we work together. On this issue, I will also come back to the letter on strengthening decentralised governance. Then the motion to part No. 7 by Mr Van Houwelingen and Mr Bosma. I'm dissuading the motion. Why? Because I have just argued that it is up to the councils to ensure that they involve their residents properly to see if there is support. We did not prescribe a referendum for this. They have done so with, among other things, citizen consultations, with online meetings and conversations. In any event, this is in accordance with what we have agreed with each other in the municipal reclassification policy framework on the way in which the participation of residents is shaped. That's why I don't recommend the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-5.u74	Thank you for your term. This brings us to the end of the discussion of this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-5.u75	We're going to vote on the bill and motion for a resolution on 17 May next Tuesday. I'm suspending the meeting until 1:35 p.m. Then there's time for lunch, too.
