ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u1	I shall continue in one smooth motion with the two-minute debate on the Institution Committee on Rule 57 of the Constitution. The only speaker has just come forward. That is Mrs Renske Leijten from the SP Group. I'd like to give her the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u2	Mr. Chairman. I'm sure you can remember it vividly. A number of MPs were appointed to the outgoing cabinet and there was actually no good constitutional explanation of Article 57 (3) of the Constitution whether or not it was incompatible. The Council of State and State scholars said that the Chamber should discuss this. We did. A motion was tabled: it is incompatible. A motion was tabled: set up a state committee. And a motion was tabled: do something with a replacement scheme. All three of them were hired. Now we're a year away. On paper, we shared with the Minister about the implementation of the advisory committee. The Group of the Party of European Socialists actually thinks that we should delete that advisory committee. In any case, we must delete the section on the interpretation of Article 57. It's all in the motion I'm going to read to you, but this is the context. We think we can better spend the money, the resources and the time of the ministry, of ourselves and of the advisory committee. That's why I'm proposing the next motion to the Chamber. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having regard to the opinion of the Council of State of 1 September 2021,]] [[noting that the Chamber was adopting the Leijten and Others motion for a resolution. (35896, No. (6) gave a ruling on a strict interpretation of Article 57 of the Constitution, which means that a Member of Parliament can never have a double function after the Member of Parliament has been installed without a double function and that there is no exception to Article 57 of the Constitution except for the situation where a delegate is elected as a Member of Parliament;]] [[Whereas the establishment of an advisory college on this issue has become unnecessary and resources and time can be used more effectively in relation to this consultative committee to be set up;]] [[calls on the Government not to set up an advisory committee on the interpretation of Article 57 of the Constitution and to limit the tasks for a consultative commission, if any, to an opinion on any replacement and transitional arrangements,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Leijten.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35896-23]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u3	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Mrs Leijten referred to the debate that had previously been held in the Chamber, in which the House of Representatives expressed very strongly how it explained Article 57 (3) of the Constitution. In addition, a motion by the VVD and the CDA, by Mr Ellian and Inge van Dijk, was adopted in that debate to further examine the functioning of Article 57 of the Constitution in general, including the possibility of a temporary replacement scheme for MPs who are also directors of a outgoing cabinet. So there is also an assignment, or at least a motion, from Mr Ellian and Inge van Dijk, for me as Minister to get to work on this. In fact, Mrs Leijten's motion, if I interpret it correctly, says that we may have to skip the earlier assignment to work with it and limit it to a replacement and transitional arrangement. That's a step faster than the earlier assignment I've been given to get to work on this. Since I have also been given the task of getting on with it by the Chamber, by Mrs Van Dijk and Mr Ellian, I would also like to get on with it. That is why I would simply advise against this motion at this stage, because there is another request to take matters up.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u5	The interpretation of Article 57 (3) on what is incompatible has already been given. The advisory committee doesn't have to look at that anymore. We exchanged this in writing. We feel very strongly, however, that this will not be the intention of the advisory committee to abandon the interpretation of the Second Chamber of the Constitution. The Chamber has clearly said, with 150-0, that it is incompatible. The SP thinks that's undesirable. We've been thinking. Do we have to write in on the assignment? Or should we just let this part of the assignment lapse? That's what this motion says. I would suggest to the Minister that she leave this to the Chamber, because I propose that a request from the Chamber should be withdrawn. Then I hope, of course, that the VVD and the CDA will consider whether it is still necessary. The replacement rule can be prepared by a consultative commission, but can also be prepared by the Ministry. Then we save ourselves an advisory committee, its institution, paying those people, a report in concept, a response to it and debates about it. The SP Group does not think it is necessary. There's a clear statement.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u6	Since this is a request to the government, I would like to emphasise the earlier request that I have received from the Chamber to proceed with it. I hear Mrs Leijten now saying that the request is for the Chamber to give its opinion in order to carry out that task differently, but here is just a request to me. I have had an earlier request from the Chamber to work on this, from Mr Ellian and Mrs Van Dijk, which was supported by a majority. Indeed, the SP voted against it at that time. Apart from that, I believe that the Court's ruling on how it intends to deal with Rule 57 (3) stands. Mrs Van Dijk and Mr Ellian have said that they want a broader investigation. That's what I'm trying to unite as best I can.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u7	A motion is always a proposal to the Chamber to amend the government, so so is this motion. If it is adopted, the Chamber will say that we do not. That's the way I'm going now. I don't want to submit a speech motion. That was possible in the case of the Constitutional Motion, because that was how we interpreted the Constitution. I would like to say, however, that the risk that the advisory committee will say something else, having listened to the government, listening to who they are all talking about, is that there are expensive days on the moors and there are expensive writing committees; we all know how such a report is made. The risk is that there will soon be something other than the Court's ruling on how it reads the Constitution. I find that vulnerable, incorrect and impure. So my appeal, just to the VVD and the CDA, is: think about this carefully. We do not think that this replacement scheme, if it were necessary, would require a consultative committee at all. It saves the Minister a lot of work and saves us a lot of time.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u8	There are two aspects to this. I would like to take this up with care and therefore have a consultative committee with a number of people who have experience in the Chamber and beyond. Secondly, after a consultative commission, it is always up to the Chamber to exchange views on how to proceed. So an advisory committee is a very important tool, but it is never the end of the political debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u9	Clear. So far. Thanks to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u10	We shall vote on this motion on Tuesday. I'm gonna suspend until 7:00, and then we're gonna talk about lead in drinking water.
