ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-20.u1	The next item is the continuation of the examination of the legislative proposal 35949, Amendment of the Fertilisers Act in relation to the concept of dairy cows and some other amendments concerning the phosphate duty system. We now need the government's first-term response.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-20.u2	I give the floor to the Minister for Agriculture, Nature and Food Quality.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-20.u3	Thank you for the floor, Mr. Chairman. Today I am allowed to hold the first consultation with you as Minister of Agriculture, Nature and Food Quality. First of all, I am very grateful to your Chamber for congratulating me on this appointment and on this opportunity. However, I am also very grateful to your Chamber for having taken up the legislative proposal very soon. Specifically, it concerns some adjustments to the phosphate duty system, as provided for in the Fertilisers Act. The members of the groups of GroenLinks, Labour Party, Party for Animals, PVV and D66 have asked questions on issues that monitor the major challenges facing agriculture. With the coalition agreement, the cabinet is committed to an ambitious package of measures to reduce emissions from agriculture to the environment and nature. We do this through an area-oriented, integrated approach that aims to make nature, climate and water in the Netherlands in good condition. With this, the cabinet wants to do justice to the diversity of the areas in the Netherlands and work towards a clear and good future for the agricultural sector. In doing so, we need to be sure that this approach will lead to a timely and inevitable outcome. We are now working hard to develop this approach and we will also inform your Chamber about it. Of course, I am willing, together with my colleague for Nature and Nitrogen, to discuss this with your Chamber. But that goes beyond the legislative proposal before us today. I will therefore confine myself today to the legislative proposal before us, in line with the call you made at the beginning of the first term. The bill before us today deals with a number of issues. Firstly, to clarify the definition of dairy cows, so that it is clear which young cattle are and which are not covered by the phosphate rights system. This component is important for the enforcement of the system. In this way, I will also give effect to a court ruling of the College of Occupation for Industry. Two. To provide a legal basis for the already existing exemption scheme for suckler cows. This is important for suckler cows who are not related to dairy farming. Three. Providing a limited degree of flexibility to entrepreneurs to cope with unforeseen circumstances to facilitate sustainability. This concerns the parts of skimming-free lease and renovation lease. This is based on a broad-based wish from the House of Representatives. Four. To make some technical adjustments, such as the registration of transactions at the turn of the year and the restoration of an omission with regard to the criminalisation. The proposal is therefore of a rather technical nature. The bill is neutral in terms of environmental impact. I am the first to say that the legislative proposal is not the solution to all the challenges facing agriculture, particularly dairy farming. It takes a lot more than that. As I have just said, I will certainly come and speak to your room about this. At the same time, the bill does not stand in the way of meeting challenges. It essentially clarifies the phosphate rights system and provides some flexibility to entrepreneurs within the framework of the phosphate rights system as previously established by law. No more and no less than that. After this, I will try to answer your Chamber's questions about the legislative proposal as well as possible. I do that on the basis of a number of cubes. One. Answering some specific questions that affect the scope of the bill. Two. The relationship between the legislative proposal and the derogation from the Nitrate Directive and the legally established ceilings. Three. The definition of dairy cows and the consequences for livestock farming. Four. The part of the 100-pound skimming-free lease. Five. The part of the renovation lease. Six. The enforcement of the bill. And seven. A few other things. Mr. Chairman. I'll start with block one. These are questions from GroenLinks and the Labour Party. How does the Cabinet fill in the precautionary principle and the degradation ban for Natura 2000 sites? This is done through the Nature Protection Act and licensing based on that law. The quantity of dairy cows holding a farmer with phosphate rights should fit within that authorisation. This bill does not change anything. Then the next question from GroenLinks and the Labour Party. The Minister must choose farmers. If he then chooses for land-based farmers, for derogation farmers or for all farmers, the question was. My answer to that is that I choose all farmers. They must operate within the limits of the environment, and I do not think that I should distinguish between farmers at the moment. This has not helped the debate. I believe that we should give a future perspective to all farmers. That is what the coalition agreement has done. I'd like to talk to you about that at another time. I do, however, see the importance of gradually moving towards a fully land-based dairy farming. I will also be committed to this in the coming period. Then a question from the Party for Freedom. Would the Minister like to give farmers more clarity and certainty about emission reduction factors of stables and to release studies on this matter? There was also a question about the problem surrounding the high bog area in Overijssel. The questions raised by Mrs Faber on the emission reduction factors of stables and on the high bog area in Overijssel do not reflect the content of the legislative proposal. In substance, these subjects are also partly the responsibility of the Minister for Nature and Nitrogen and of the Province. We are happy to discuss this with you at another time. In general, I would like to say that I attach great importance to policy transparency. To give farmers a perspective, it is important that they know where they stand, especially with regard to the demands of the government on their management. You can therefore count on my commitment to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-20.u4	It's tried three times every time before the microphone works. But that's okay, at least we're getting there. So it doesn't matter. In any case, I am pleased that the Minister has indicated that he is here for all the farmers. So that's a compliment. I'm not that complimentary, so I'd say you've got that. Good. Another point is the renovation lease. I asked questions about the renovation of stables to reduce emissions. That's what the renovation lease is for. We in the Chamber also have the task of checking whether matters are feasible. I also mentioned: it all sounds very nice, that renovation lease, but if you then start renovating your stable and then...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-20.u5	Mind if I come in? The minister just indicated that the renovation lease is his fifth block, if I'm not mistaken.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-20.u6	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-20.u7	Why don't we wait until the minister gets there... or we're gonna get it all mixed up. Then we'll know for sure we'll be here in the morning.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-20.u8	I understand your point of view, but I was withdrawn because the Minister specifically referred to my question. But I certainly want to postpone my question to the block about the renovation lease. I'm okay with that, 'cause we'll have everything we need. As far as I'm concerned, that's not a problem at all. Then I had another question. The minister also hacked into that Wierdene Veld. There should be bogs up there. That area is no larger than our plenary. The Minister says: that goes a little beyond the scope. But the Natura 2000 sites are, of course, the driving force behind the whole problem we have. That's why I put it on the table. I think journalists should be able to take a look with independent experts in such an area. The minister says he's in favour of transparency. I must therefore imagine that the Minister is in favour, for example, of a journalist and experts being able to look in such a nature reserve. I can see how you're so excited about that piece...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-20.u9	Your question is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-20.u10	Nevertheless, I ask my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-20.u11	I believe that I have said that I attach great importance to policy transparency. This is about provincial lands, so I won't rule on that. But I could imagine that there's no obstacle to just looking into the area. That does not seem to me to be a problem in this respect. I will come back to the other questions later, Mrs Faber. Then, on behalf of the SP, a question has been asked about the failure to consider whether the law could have positive environmental effects. The answer on behalf of the cabinet is that this bill, the technical adjustments, did not aim to limit its impact on the environment. Nor does it have an increasing effect; I have just said this in my reply. It looks only at the desired flexibility for farmers. If the further development of the coalition agreement, the announced transition in agriculture, gives rise to the re-adjustment of this, a legislative proposal will certainly be prepared.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-20.u12	I'll limit my interruptions, Mr. President. No, it wasn't meant to, but my question was: can we still afford to take one-dimensional measures? Shouldn't we be looking for every measure we take to see if we don't have a positive one... because all the bits help and we have to do a lot. That was my question. It goes wider than just this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-20.u13	I understand the questions very well. I also mentioned this in my introduction, in particular my ambition with regard to the area-based broad approach and the transition of agriculture. I think that we should take advantage of all the issues that matter. However, this legislative proposal deals in particular with the technical aspects. From the Chamber and the sector, the need to adapt is also felt. I also see this as an opportunity to accelerate the transition. What we can offer flexibility in this context is a very good thing, I think. If this law is future-proof, it is requested by the SP Group. Aren't we gonna work something out that we're gonna have to reverse later? I just took an advance on that. The proposed change to the system does not affect the way the phosphate rights system contributes to achieving the target range of the Nitrate Directive and the Water Framework Directive. Therefore, at present there is no evidence that there are risks that this is not future-proof. I also said to the SP Group that we are going to discuss the future of agriculture with your Chamber. Then the block of derogation and ceilings. I come to the questions of GroenLinks and the Labour Party. This law is linked to the derogation. Why doesn't the Cabinet make that connection? What does it do with the confidence of farmers in the cabinet? And who pays the price if things don't go well unexpectedly? I also said, in reply to Mr Janssen's question, that this bill is not directly related to the derogation. That is why this link has not been established. With regard to the derogation, I would like to point out that my commitment is to extend the derogation. This is currently being discussed with the European Commission. That's not easy. As soon as there is more clarity, I will inform your Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-20.u14	It reminds me a little of the conversations that have taken place around cockle fishing, or I am saying it wrongly: pulse hive fishing. At that time we were also very convinced in the Netherlands that this had no connection. But I note that we are communicating to Europe that we are not filling up the phosphate bank as quickly as possible. We are communicating to Europe that we no longer allow part of the animals to be covered by the phosphate rights system. We don't take them to the slaughter, so they keep pooping. The rights remain in the system and are therefore also used.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-20.u15	So your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-20.u16	My question is whether the Minister... I would like to invite the Minister to think that they are watching us very closely in Europe and picking up these kinds of signals, even though we ourselves think they are about different things.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-20.u17	I agree with Mrs Kluit. You probably meant the pulse kor?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-20.u18	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-20.u19	The pulse trawling. That's right. We had a good technique, which was scientifically thought to satisfy the technique. But a political decision has made it different. I shall return to your question in the rest of my answer, because of course it is important. My position is that the derogation can help, even in the transition of the agricultural sector. If the derogation were not granted now, that would also be the commitment to the European Commission, which would be a good lockdown for the sector. It also means that the transition to future-proof agriculture is in real danger. That is why we are assuming, and also hope, that this derogation will now be granted. Then a question from the SGP Group: how will the Minister prevent farmers from being blamed for the slow decision-making on the derogation? I just said that the conversations are going on and that they are difficult conversations, but my commitment is to get clarity as quickly as possible, because, as I said, this is necessary for the sector. I remain committed to this precisely because it has a positive impact on our environmental objectives and also on the future of agriculture. Then there is a question from the SGP Group about below or above the phosphate ceiling.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-20.u20	Mr. Schalk wants to interrupt before you give the answer. Or would you like to wait for the answer, Mr. Schalk?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-20.u21	Mr President, I just wanted to respond to the first answer. In my view, the Minister was now working on his second answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-20.u22	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-20.u23	But as far as the first answer is concerned, can the Minister also outline a beginning of a timetable for this derogation? He says non-verbal that it's getting complicated.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-20.u24	I'd love to. I would add that it is not all easy what we are doing in Brussels. I spoke to the Commissioner about this again yesterday. I really can't comment on the sequel. We'll do our best. I hope to be clear as soon as possible. If there is that clarity, I will also make sure that you are informed about it. The question is whether we are below or above the phosphate ceiling. I notice that there is some confusion about phosphate rights, phosphate production, what is the state of play and how this relates to water quality. That is why I want to try to give some clarity in my contribution. I do this on the basis of various monitoring data that are being prepared. The number of phosphate rights present in the market is recorded and monitored by RVO. As of 1 January 2022, about 85 million kilos of phosphate duties have been registered on the market, of which 700,000 kilos have been registered in the livestock sector. Together, this is about 100,000 kilos above the sectoral phosphate ceiling of dairy farming. However, it has not been said that actual phosphate production is above this ceiling. Actual phosphate production by the Dutch livestock is monitored by the CBS and reported quarterly. The fourth quarterly report for 2021 shows that dairy farming is expected to have produced 74.1 million kilos of phosphate, more than 13% below the sectoral production ceiling. Nitrogen production is expected to reach 279.6 million kilos, which is almost 1% lower than the sectoral ceiling. Finally, RIVM monitors the development of water quality in accordance with the requirements of the Nitrates Directive. The Nitrates Directive reporting is prepared every four years. The latest data are contained in the 7th action programme for the Nitrates Directive, which you know. So this is not directly related to the bill that we are discussing in your Chamber today, but it seemed to me to be useful to clarify it. Then there is the question of the percentage of skimming to 10%. The law states that within two weeks of potential phosphate production of dairy cows remaining below the sectoral ceiling, the creaming rate should be adjusted to 10%. I do not think it is desirable to adjust the rate of skimming earlier. Mr President, then to block three. A question from the Labour Party and the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance: why was it not chosen to bring young cattle under the category of dairy? The answer to this is that for young cattle for livestock farming, this bill requires only phosphate rights if animals are given a calf or are intended to have a calf. This group is covered by the definition of dairy cows. Young cattle for meat farming that never gets a calf and is therefore not intended to have a calf, and which is therefore kept only for the production of meat, do not need any rights. So that is not covered by the definition. This classification clarifies for which young livestock phosphate rights are required. Another question from the CDA Group. The explanatory notes indicate that meat farmers with young cattle intended only for slaughter are exempted from phosphate rights and that they are required to surrender their phosphate rights. Does this mean that these phosphate rights will be surrendered to the phosphate bank, then 20% will be removed and the remainder will remain available for land-based dairy farming? That was the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-20.u25	The Minister outlines a number of different categories of cattle and the phosphate rights needed or not. But, of course, we have had to deal with an I&R fraud, where it proved difficult to identify quantities of bovine animals, let alone the classification between them and the purpose for which they are kept. So what gives the Minister the great confidence that many things go wrong in a sector where, for whatever reason and with all understanding of the difficulties of farmers? Why does the Minister think that, with limited enforcement capacity, we can very well maintain that distinction?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-20.u26	I will come back later to talk about enforcement, so perhaps I can braid the answer into it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-20.u27	Let me get this straight. So if you place young cattle from dairy cows under a different category, they are not included in the phosphate rights. But they do produce phosphate. That is why we keep saying 'there is a risk of phosphate production', so I would like to clarify that. Then why is neutrally held? That is every time you come back to it, but we see a shift to another category, which emits extra phosphate. That will remain, but that will not be taken into account. The effect of this is that space is created in the dairy category, which can be refilled with new dairy cows. So you have extra phosphate production on both sides. It's just not included, but there's extra phosphate in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-20.u28	I understand what Mr Karakus is saying. The law monitored dairy farming and the ceiling in it and the way in which we had to obtain clarity about it. What we are doing now is introducing a clarification of the law. I know what you're saying. I can imagine that this is part of the discussion on the future of the agricultural sector in relation to ceilings. We are simply talking about an amendment to the law and not about the discussion whether we should move from one category to another. For you are quite right: of course, this animal category also emits manure. Only, this law supervises dairy farming, which involves the production of milk.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-20.u29	Yeah, but we're talking about a proposal here, which means there's extra phosphate production in practice. In fact, our commitment should be to lower where possible. And that is true, because you make that choice in your proposal. You could say, "We're gonna skim." This can prevent extra production. So it's not just about the definition of "milk cattle," it's also about the risk of extra phosphate. You could take action on that. The request of the CDA this afternoon was also to achieve a better balance. So I'm curious about the measures you're going to take.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-20.u30	I have already indicated in the previous questions that I have answered that we do not see any increase in taxation in relation to the environment. That is why we are now making this proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-20.u31	Not at all, Mr. Karakus.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-20.u32	Yeah, but I don't get it anymore. We see that there is an increase, don't we? I mean, that's also your observation. There's been an increase in phosphate emissions. Only, that's accounting. That's the story: it's not phosphate law, it's legal. We're not saying there's no extra phosphate emissions, are we? Extra phosphate is produced, thanks to your proposal. The question is, why do you do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-20.u33	I have just said that, when we look at the law and the definition that we want to make in this amendment to the law, we do not see any increase in environmental pressure.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-20.u34	Minister, were you ready?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-20.u35	I had finished answering this question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-20.u36	One last try. Minister, you yourself have already indicated that extra phosphate emissions are taking place in practice; point. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-20.u37	I have just said in reply to your question and to previous questions that we consider that environmental pressure is not increasing. That's the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-20.u38	Environmental pressure is increasing! Because extra phosphate emissions mean that environmental pressure is increasing. Only, you make it a legal, accounting story. But the environmental pressure is increasing, isn't it? Or am I wrong? Because that's what you're saying: extra phosphate means extra environmental pressure.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-20.u39	I'm not gonna give you another answer than I've given you before.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-20.u40	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-20.u41	I was responding to the CDA question about 20%. The answer to that is no. In choosing the suckler cow exemption scheme, there is a pre-condition that phosphate rights are surrendered and deleted. The rights removed are therefore not available to the phosphate bank. Secondly, have we understood that the maintenance of the distinction between calves destined for calving and calves intended for slaughter is well realized? The answer to that is: I think it is right to do so. In addition to the targeted checks by the NVWA on the extension ban, other inspections of manure legislation also reveal infringements of the phosphate rights system. The NVWA may look back for more than one year during a check. As usual, the NVWA carried out a feasibility and enforceability test on the bill. The verdict on this bill was positive. That means that the bill is good to enforce.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-20.u42	That judgment was positive. But I hear nothing else but that the NVWA only lacks to be able to handle the work that lies on their plate at all. So my question, which I also asked in the first term, is: did they say "we'll do this with it" or do they say "yes, this could be maintained, legally etc..."? But do they have enough people to do it? Have people been cleared for it? If they have to shift people for this, what happens now? So that's my question, because I'm looking at the total and I see a service that's overwhelmed in the tasks they have. Can they do it theoretically, or can they do it in practice?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-20.u43	This question was put to the NVWA. The NVWA replied as I just told you. That also means that at the moment that this is not met, I am going to talk to the NVWA about this too.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-20.u44	The question is whether you can appeal to a service that... The question "Can you handle this?" I don't think it's the question that's been put. Knowing the NVWA, they will also have said: yes, but we have a lot of reservations, because we still have some problems left and right in terms of capacity, because we have a few other jobs on our plate. So I find the only sentence of the Minister "we have asked 'can you do this?' And they said yes and with that you have to do it" very skinny.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-20.u45	To take that picture away: I visited the NVWA two weeks ago and I think that the NVWA is an organisation that is well in order. Of course, there are things that need extra attention. Additional money has also been made available for this purpose. They're working hard on that, too. As in my question, "is it possible to check this? N.V.A.W.A. says "yes," and I assume that I can rely on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-20.u46	Finally, Mr Janssen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-20.u47	Finally, Mr President. So I hear the Minister here saying that the NVWA has no capacity problems in order to be able to test this in full width and also to implement it in enforcement.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-20.u48	I heard Mr Janssen say this. I have answered the question put by Mr Janssen. I assume that as soon as the NVWA says "this is feasible," I may address them as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-20.u49	However, it is a problem that the NVWA repeatedly comes into the picture in a negative sense, for example, with reports on manure fraud or reports on problems in slaughterhouses. Then it becomes clear that the NVWA does not maintain as the legislator actually intended. Then it is true, and I would like to endorse Mr Janssen, that it is very difficult to ask someone whose capacities of enforcement are regularly questioned externally, so in the media "are you okay, can you do it?" And he says, "Yeah, I'm fine here." But that is without prejudice to the constant scandals surrounding that supervisory service.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-20.u50	So your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-20.u51	My question is: couldn't an external test be set on that enforcement capacity, other than asking the NVWA "are you okay?"
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-20.u52	In my opinion, I replied clearly to Mr Janssen's question that, at the time the NVWA promises me that this will be feasible, I believe that it will be and that I can keep it. Mr Koffeman spoke about the NVWA as if it were an instance where it was not good. I have been convinced that it is an organisation that is perfectly capable of doing its job. It is clear that there are capacity problems here and there. Extra money is now available for this and we are working very hard on it. Work is under way to get more employees to monitor and enforce an even higher plan. I am confident that the plan presented by them will work.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-20.u53	Finally, Mr. Coffeeman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-20.u54	I welcome the fact that the Minister has confidence in "Let your yes be yes and your no, no." I recognize that. But the government has taken a pretty good jacket out of the NVWA. That's what happened at the IRS. We've had the same discussion about that. In addition, we say to the person responsible: yes, you can say that there are problems with the Tax Office, but you caused them yourself. So the question is: are we really going to realize the capacity expansion at NVWA that can make their good intentions true, instead of becoming the pavement for the road to hell?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-20.u55	I sincerely hope so. I have commitments from the board. There's a lot of work going on. As I have just outlined, there is a demand for staff. I'm following it, too. I immediately follow the way things are going and I am hopeful.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-20.u56	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-20.u57	I had arrived at block four, Mr President. I have a question from the Group of the Party of Labour and the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance. Why doesn't the lease take off every 100 kilometers? With the relaxing registration articles, have farmers been helped already? The measure 100 kilometers 100 kilometers? I don't know where I'm getting that from. 100 kilos of creaming-free lease facilitates the acquisition of phosphate rights to absorb unexpectedly higher milk production and thereby improves the functioning of the phosphate rights system. With only a loosening of registration, the offer of the phosphate rights to be leased does not really increase. The question of D66: does this proposal of the previous cabinet contribute to the objective of the current cabinet on the transition of agriculture? Doesn't this make it harder? I just said a few words about that. This bill provides farmers with the desired flexibility in the skimming-free lease. The bill does not reflect the transition of agriculture announced in the coalition agreement. I'd like to talk to you about that at another time.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-20.u58	Mr. Karakus. Oh, first Mr. Pijlman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-20.u59	I understand what you're saying, but the phosphate bank is decreasing by 10%. That means a more difficult transition. So my question is: do you agree?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-20.u60	In the context of this bill, you mean that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-20.u61	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-20.u62	Do I subscribe to that? I really see this bill and its adaptation as an opportunity to make transition possible and to provide clarity and clarity. So the answer to your question is no.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-20.u63	I understand you're saying that about measure 1 and measure 3. But the Minister of LNV cannot be pleased that the phosphate bank is reducing by 10% for a little flexibility. That could have been quite different, because the flexibility you are giving us now is quite considerable. He invites us to sit on the borders all the time. I can only conclude that there is a decrease in the phosphate bank, which we need so much to get the transition going. I can't imagine you're happy with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-20.u64	I shall return to that in a moment's time in an answer. If you're not satisfied, we'd like to hear it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-20.u65	I'm sure we'll hear about it. Mr Schalk on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-20.u66	I understand from the Minister that he has his answers around 100 kilos...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-20.u67	You will.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-20.u68	It's coming.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-20.u69	This is gonna take a long time. Please continue your speech, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-20.u70	I see a room hungry for answers. GroenLinks and the Labour Party ask how it fits in with the cabinet's vision of circular agriculture and how this law is consistent with government policy towards sustainable agriculture. I just said something about this. The law does not look at the cabinet's vision of circular or sustainable agriculture. If it is still necessary when the coalition agreement on sustainable agriculture is being drawn up, I would like to say once again that it is necessary to amend the Fertilisers Act, a legislative proposal will certainly be prepared for this. It is only the technical changes that are being made today. Does the cabinet want to link a maximum number of periods to the lease? No. It has been chosen that a company, and there it comes, can lease up to 100 kilos of cream free per calendar year. That's a limited number of rights. Farms cannot grow through this measure, because leased phosphate rights have to go back to the original holding. Permanent growth is therefore not on the agenda. Following the introduction of the measure 100 kilos of skimming-free lease, I will closely monitor the progress of the registrations through the Rijksdienst voor Onderneming Nederland. If it turns out that the size of the skimming-free lease is not sufficiently in line with the average agricultural practice, then I am prepared to consider the adjustment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-20.u71	Mr Karakus is not going to repeat his previous question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-20.u72	I often hear that it is a technical change. But with as many consequences as the phosphate bank and additional pressures on the environment, can you not insist that it is just a technical change? I would like to know how you see the consequences of such a technical change. What do you think are the disadvantages of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-20.u73	I believe that in my introduction I answered the question as to why we believe that this law should be technically adapted to a number of issues. It is a wish of the House of Representatives and we believe that it will make this law clearer and simpler. That is why we have made these proposals to the House of Representatives and also now submit them to the House of First Instance.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-20.u74	My question was: what do you think are the disadvantages of the technical change? In other words, what do you think are the consequences?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-20.u75	It's gonna be a repeat of moves. I don't see the downside. I see the advantages of this technical adjustment. It's a clarification. That's why I'm defending it in your Chamber today.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-20.u76	Finally, Mr. Karakus.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-20.u77	Then I'll be curious to hear your answer about the phosphate bank. It has a serious consequence for farmers. You say 'we stand up for all the farmers', but you're going to abandon those farmers. That is indeed a consequence of a technical change.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-20.u78	My answer is that that is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-20.u79	I would like to ask the Minister about the consistency of policy. I hear the minister say he stands up for all the farmers. That is a good goal, because GroenLinks also wants to move on to the future with as many farmers as possible. The only question is how these farmers will still be able to farm in the Netherlands in the future. With this bill, you call it a technical change, it turns out that, after we peel it off on a number of parts, the one who wants to get in the transition gets harder.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-20.u80	A brief question, Mrs Kluit. This is your fifteenth question in this debate, so I would like a brief question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-20.u81	How do you place those effects, which Mr Karakus also asked for, in the direction you want to go in?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-20.u82	That's always a bit of a tricky answer to this question. I would like to talk to your Chamber about the future of agriculture. This envisages a technical amendment of an existing law. We're gonna have to deal with that for a while. I would very much like to talk to you about the future and about the position of farmers. I have deliberately chosen to speak about all farmers, because I think that is right.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-20.u83	The broad talk comes to the acquaintance, I think. Go ahead, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-20.u84	How do we prevent the Labour Party and the Green Left from asking that there be a situation in which farmers keep animals permanently? The answer to this is that this is not possible through the measure of up to 100 kilos of skimming-free lease. A company can only lease up to 100 kilos in total per calendar year. Farms cannot grow through this measure, because leased phosphate rights have to go back to an original business. At the time when the conditions for the 100 kilos are not met and release, for example, does not take place in the same calendar year as the forward lease, skimming will still take place. Then there is the question of the D66 Group. An average farmer has 105 cows. A cow emits 0.7 kilos of phosphate. Yeah, numbers, huh? This makes 73,5 kilos on an average company. Then why does the cabinet choose 100 kilos? In determining the 100 kilograms, the starting point was that the quantity should be sufficient to give farmers the necessary flexibility in most cases in the event of an unforeseen increase in milk production. 100 kilos is therefore still sufficient for some farms larger than average. And the other way around: if the limit were to be set exactly at 73.5, roughly half of the companies would not be able to derive sufficient flexibility to cope with unforeseen circumstances. I think that's not enough. That's why I raised the border a little bit, at 100 kilos. Why weaken the phosphate bank by 10%, when you need this instrument in the transition to circular agriculture? The effect of the 10% is acceptable in order to provide the desired flexibility in business operations. The principle of the implementation of the phosphate bank and the issue of temporary exemptions to promote ground-boundness remains intact. Then I come to the SGP Group. Does the Minister see room to increase the 100 kilos if this does not work for large companies and does the Minister want to inform the Chamber in the spring whether this law does what it is intended to do? The answer to the first question is: no, I don't see that space. Apart from the fact that, in my view, the proposed 100 kilos also provide the desired flexibility for larger companies, it is very difficult in the implementation to work with two different heights of skimming-free lease. I'm sure I'll promise to inform you. Perhaps I should point out that this spring is coming too early. I will therefore inform the House of this in the second half of this year.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-20.u85	At all the peace the minister exudes, I was just too quick. Now I have received the answers. Thank you for that. On the second point: I understand that. You say that we can do better later in the year, and that is of course fine. Thank you for that commitment. Just now, the Minister also said about the 100 kilos that, if it does not fit properly, he wants to see if there is a need for adjustment. The Minister also said that if he sat exactly at 73,5 kilos, that for a large part of the companies might not be enough. What if, during the course of this year, it appears that the 100 kilos are still too low for some of the companies, will the Minister still see if there is any possibility of adjusting them?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-20.u86	The Minister and the Cabinet are, of course, always able to think when something is not workable. So the answer to that is yes. But let's get to work on this 100 kilos for now. I think that, given all the calculations I've seen, is really workable, and it also meets the wishes. So that's why. The next question from Mr Schalk is: can we not give more room for leasing farmers with larger livestock and taking into account the size of their farms? I have just replied to that. As far as I am concerned, we do not; the 100 kilos is the starting point. Another question from the CDA Group. Does the Minister wish to monitor the use of the skimming-free lease and, if necessary, intervene? I just said something about that. That's what I'm trying to do. Once again, after the introduction of the measure, I will closely monitor the progress and registrations at the National Entrepreneurship Agency of the Netherlands. And if it turns out that it doesn't fit in with the practice, I'm going to think about an adjustment. Then I have three more packages. If I have to go faster, Mr. Chairman, you'll give me a signal, won't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-20.u87	Certainly, Minister. It's almost time.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-20.u88	There was a question from GroenLinks and the Labour Party. Why is there not yet a general measure of governance and when is it coming? The content of the measure allowing the renovation lease is not yet known, as the process has not yet started. I do intend to start with that in the short term. Why choose the form of an AMvB and not an additional bill? This is in order to meet the demand for renovation lease in the short term and because there is provision for a claused delegation base in the legislative proposal which allows the AMvB to develop the option. In addition, the AMvB's instrument is more in line with the expected detailed nature of the implementation of this measure. A question from GroenLinks and the Labour Party was: under what conditions is the renovation lease made possible? Provinces must be able to continue to direct the movement of animals, but can they actually do so? I have just told you that the content of the general measure of governance which enables the renovation lease to be carried out is not yet known, because it has not yet started. The Nature Protection Act applies to the movement of holdings in the vicinity of Natura 2000 sites. Movements of livestock, whether or not using the lease, will have to fit within the authorisation of the receiving farmer, keeping and supervising the provinces. Delaying entry into force. The part of the renovation lease provides a legal basis for the preparation of a general measure of governance. With the entry into force of this section, only the basis for that AMvB would enter into force and not the measure itself. The entry into force of this base may be postponed until the AMvB is ready. And I told you, the content is not yet known, because the process has yet to be started. Can the Minister undertake to submit it to the Supreme Court? Yes, I can promise your room. One remark is that there is no provision for a pending procedure. I will follow the regular procedure and see what the appropriate time is for you to submit the draft decision. The question is: are CO, nitrogen and phosphate reductions or relocation of a company part of the conditions for innovation lease? I assume you're referring to renovation lease. Right now, I'm working on the underlying general measure of governance, as I just told you. With renovation lease I focus on the sustainability of agriculture. This can contribute to the reduction, including nitrogen and phosphate. This is part of the elaboration. Then there's the persistence. Some of you asked about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-20.u89	Hey, the microphone's working in one go! I had an open question about the renovation lease. I forgot it for a while until you got to that block. It was about renovating the stable. The supplier gives a certain emission factor to such a stable. Then the barn is built and then two years later, when measured in practice, emissions turn out to be much higher. Then, of course, such a farmer comes from the rain in the drip. That is of course not the intention, because in this way they do not want to renovate at all with those stables. The question to the Minister is whether he sees a solution to prevent such problems. Should it not simply be made public on which the emission factor of such a type is based?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-20.u90	I think Mrs Faber is asking questions that do not belong in this debate. It concerns the Rav list on the basis of which it is assessed whether or not a measure can lead to a reduction in nitrogen. That really belongs in another debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-20.u91	I think this is a little too easy. We're talking about renovation lease. This is the intention for sustainability, including for stables. It must, of course, be feasible in practice. We are also testing for feasibility and persistence here. You come up with a nice proposal on renovations, but if that is not going to work in practice, then of course we have little use for it. That is why I am asking you to make public how the emission factor is determined. I can imagine that the Minister is not so one-two-three ready, but can he, for example, let the Chamber know in a later letter how that works? If he wanted to do that, I'd love that. Then we can always look into what we can do with it in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-20.u92	I think I know the answer, Mrs Faber. In my opinion, the Rav list is simply neat and published publicly on the website of the RVO. That's what the numbers are for. So when it comes to openness and transparency in the measures that can lead to less nitrogen emissions, they are clearly mentioned there. This is about renovation lease, a temporary solution for a farmer who wants to renovate a stable and for temporary removal. That's what I'm trying to do with this amendment of the law. This is not about reducing nitrogen numbers or changing the Rav list.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-20.u93	Finally, Mrs Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-20.u94	Are the stable types included in that Rav list?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-20.u95	Sure. It contains a very large number of types, floors and all kinds of measures that farmers can use to achieve nitrogen reduction.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-20.u96	Thank you. Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-20.u97	Then there is a question from Mr Koffeman of the Party for Animals. Is it wise to set up such a complex and difficult enforceable system while the sector is under pressure and is therefore susceptible to fraud? My answer on behalf of the cabinet is that the proposed legislative amendment provides for a simplification of enforcement. The amendment clarifies both the sector and the enforcement organisations. Fraud will be more difficult. Cows that go to slaughter are easy to follow and cows that calves are also easy to follow. How is the enforcement capacity in this fraud-sensitive system? I just said something about the NVWA. This legislative proposal clarifies the concept of "milk cattle" and further improves the enforcement of the phosphate rights system. The enforcement of this system is an integral part of manure controls. I've been informed, 60 inspectors have been charged with carrying it out. Has the definition of dairy dairy been legally tested? Yes, this bill has been submitted to the NVWA in this context, I told you, so that is also feasible. A question from the SP: what has happened in recent years since the CBb's ruling and how was the practice during that period? Wasn't there enforcement? The CBb's ruling led to the policy rule being deleted. This once again led to undesired lack of clarity for enforcement. This is resolved by the proposal before us. The phosphate rights system entered into force in 2018. The check shall take place after a calendar year. This means that NVWA has been monitoring this system since 2019. This uncertainty has been taken into account annually in enforcement. Every year, your Chamber also receives reports on the implementation and enforcement of manure policy, including this system.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-20.u98	I have a brief clarifying question. How do you take into account uncertainty? Is that by doing nothing, or by shifting everything to the benefit of the doubt?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-20.u99	I have made it clear that the legislative proposal before us is going to solve it and that there is clarity and clarity.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-20.u100	But my question was about the last two years, where there was uncertainty. This is now for the new year. Since the verdict, there has been a lack of clarity. The Minister said that this ambiguity has been taken into account. My question is: how do you take into account uncertainty? Don't you maintain and is it freedom, happiness because you're afraid to get wet? Or do you maintain and risk getting wet? It's one of two.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-20.u101	I said in my reply that the NVWA has been monitoring this system since 2019. 60 inspectors are in the process of enforcing manure legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-20.u102	Finally, Mr. Janssen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-20.u103	Yes, I heard the Minister say that, but for the third time that was not an answer to my question. I'll come back to it in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-20.u104	Has the Minister consulted with the Public Prosecutor on the capacity of the prosecution? Yes, the NVWA has agreed to this with the Public Prosecutor's Office in the so-called enforcement arrangement. Then there is the issue of being environmentally neutral. That was a question from the SP and others. Any violation will lead to a negative effect. What about violations of the Birds and Habitats Directives? Is that how this has been discussed in Brussels? Of course, violations of environmental legislation have a negative effect on the environment, which of course seeks to protect this legislation. The same applies to the bill that is neutral in terms of environmental pressure, as I have argued, and also to the Nature Protection Act implementing the Birds and Habitats Directives. It is therefore very important that the impact of enforcement and enforcement is taken into account in the preparation of legislation. That is what has happened with this bill, as I have said a number of times. The explanatory memorandum states that this bill does not substantially alter the persistence of the phosphate rights system and that the clarification of the concept of "milk cattle' further improves the persistence of the phosphate rights system. Then there is the final question on this point. How does the Minister intend to complete his power over the penalty charge: as discretionary power or as an enforcement obligation? The power to impose the burden under penalty payment is already in the Fertilisers Act. It is therefore not a competence provided for in this legislative proposal. The Minister is competent to impose a penalty charge to enforce the obligations laid down in the Fertilisers Act, Article 49. It is a power, aimed at restoring the legitimate situation, which the Minister can use if he considers appropriate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-20.u105	[[Sentence could not be parsed: De minister kán het inzetten.]] But how does the Minister see this? Does the Minister see this as his duty? Does this feel like some kind of enforcement obligation because this is already on the edge? He says, "We shouldn't have any violations, so wherever I can do it, I'll do it." Or does he say, "Well, I'll take another look at it?"
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-20.u106	The first line I choose, Mr. Janssen. At a time when clarity and clarity are needed, it must also be provided. And where enforcement is needed, enforcement is necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-20.u107	Let's try it again. The Minister talks about 'environmental pressure neutral'. On what basis does he consider the environmental pressure neutral? We have just found that environmental pressure is increasing in practice. So why does he think it's environmentally neutral, and on what basis?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-20.u108	I am going to give the same answer as I gave to Mr Karakus earlier.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-20.u109	Would you put it together briefly, if it's really the same thing?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-20.u110	It's the same answer. I do not think that environmental pressure is increasing with the amendment proposed by this proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-20.u111	The change has the consequence that you get informal phosphate emissions if you are of category... But, yeah, we can't see that, and we can't know that. But it does happen and that gives you extra environmental pressure. Isn't that a logical consequence of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-20.u112	This will ensure an adjustment of the phosphate rights system. With these amendments, we provide for the amendment of the Fertilisers Act and I assume that environmental pressure will not increase.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-20.u113	Yes, I do. That's what you've said before. It's a repeat, but I'll check it again with you just in case. We have just noted the following. You take Category A dairy cows to Category B. This will no longer be covered by phosphate law, but there will be phosphate emissions. That's point one. The second point. In the category from which dairy cows have been taken, extra dairy can be added because we are not on the ceiling. There is also additional phosphate emissions. On both sides we still have additional phosphate emissions and therefore additional environmental pressure? I can't explain it any other way.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-20.u114	I think we have a difference of opinion here. I can only conclude that these adjustments aim at a clear, clear functioning of the phosphate rights system. I don't think environmental pressure is increasing.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-20.u115	No, no, no. You've asked that question six times now, Mr. Karakus. I'm not gonna let you do it again. You'll get a second term later. Then, of course, you can ask that question again. After that, you can still interrupt the minister. I now give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-20.u116	I have two more questions that need an answer. This concerns the question of the D66 Group as to why these three different parts have been merged into a single legislative proposal. The First Chamber has raised itself through the Hoekstra motion to be reluctant to do so. I heard that very clearly. The answer is that this legislative proposal improves the functioning of the system in a number of parts and facilitates the acquisition of phosphate rights to absorb unexpectedly high milk production. The various parts of the legislative proposal therefore all concern the phosphate rights system and are therefore sufficiently linked to a single legislative proposal. Unlike the situation described in the Hoekstra motion, this is one proposal that regulates the same subject and not two different proposals that are linked. In addition, it is not expected that one of the elements would be so politically controversial that it would jeopardise the proper parliamentary treatment of other parts. The question of the SGP Group. How does this law relate to the State aid decision and has the European Commission authorised it? The answer to this is that the European Commission has been informed that the measures contained in this legislative proposal do not require a new clearance decision from the European Commission. It is indicated that they fall under the State aid decision as long as production is guaranteed to remain below the production ceiling at all times. This outcome has been made public, inter alia, in the explanatory memorandum. Mr. Chairman. I thought those were my questions. I hope I've answered them as well as I can.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-20.u117	Just now, in the event of an interruption, I asked you why you think it is justified that the phosphate bank should decrease by 10% while you need it for the transition. Then you said: I will come back to that later. Maybe that moment has come now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-20.u118	It is very tempting to use your Chamber as well, as I said earlier, to outline the long-term view of agriculture and to discuss where we should go. This morning, I was happy to start with this in the first place, but your President has rejected me. He said that I do not consider the time appropriate, so come back to that later. I would very much like to outline that vision with your Chamber, and the consequences and opportunities that it brings, but once again, this will ensure that some minor changes are made to an existing law. That is the proposal before us today.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-20.u119	Thank you. For the record: not so much me, but the committee has asked me to put this law, not a policy debate, on the agenda. But of course this is a good opportunity for an introductory meeting which will undoubtedly take place shortly with the Minister. For that conversation, you can take ample time. We now come to the second term of office. I give the floor to Mrs Kluit from the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance. It is also speaking on behalf of the Group of the Party of Labour.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-20.u120	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It has been an interesting debate. I am afraid that I am looking at Mrs Prins......................................................................................................................................................................................................... I think that is a rather worrying issue in itself. At the end of the legal process, we should all be very clear about the effects of legislation in practice. So I'm just sticking to our own opinion. Mr. Karakus has done a fantastic job of peeling that off. There's a part of the animals outside the system. We don't know how much. We do not know what is going to happen to them, but we do know one thing: they continue to poop, so phosphate emissions will increase and that will happen out of sight. We still have a few questions. The first concerns the 100 kilograms lease and its permanent deployment. Of course, a farmer can accept and return them every year. But he can do that ten years in a row. If he does that ten years in a row, I think he can keep two, three cows. I'd like a response from the Minister on how he's going to prevent this. Then the renovation lease. I didn't quite understand how that's going to work with the AMvB. It won't be a formal front, but we'll be informed. Then what authority do we have as the First Chamber? It is important that, when we vote on a law, we know exactly what we are voting on and what its consequences are. In this case, it's not. This is precisely a part of which we can be relatively enthusiastic about, so we would like to look into it. Then there's the feasibility. Mr Janssen has already asked quite a lot of questions. I would like to ask the Minister again at NVWA if she can explain on paper how she is going to carry out these additional tasks. We have a great deal of experience in this committee that implementation organisations certainly want to be a new minister and say 'we're going to do it; it's going to be okay', but we'll find out later that there were not enough people and that the systems were not in order. Perhaps the Minister can put the answer back to the question: do they have sufficient capacity and knowledge, and are there sufficient systems in order? Then we come to judgment. We think there will be an increase in animals and an increase in problems. In doing so, the transition paths, which are open to all farmers, are made more difficult. We too are in favour of all farmers, but we believe that these farmers should go a certain way. The phosphate bank is less filled, so the transition paths are made difficult. That applies to all farmers. That's not what we should want. We are also taking irresponsible risks for farmers who are now working under the derogation. We are convinced that in Europe they look very closely at what we are discussing at the moment, and not just at a technical law. I would like to say the following to my colleagues who are considering voting in favour of this law. This is heard loud and clear. If you vote in favour and if the derogation dies in a moment, we shall not be saddled with 'we', because we are going to vote against it, then you will saddle the farmers with a huge financial noose in the current year. So that consistency of policy... I have heard the Minister loud and clear about what he wants to talk to us about. This consistency of policy is extremely important. We think he should start today. The Minister states that he is very busy with it and will come back to us, and that we will really start it. On the farmyard everything comes together. It is hard to explain that we say today 'you can get a few cows by leasing', while we say in a few months' time: unfortunately, there must be additional rights. Or: ceilings need to be brought down. We are in favour of clarity, so unfortunately we cannot help the Minister this time. But I hope that will be different next time.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-20.u121	I think we've gotten into the "your sphere."
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-20.u122	Excuse me. Through the chairman, through the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-20.u123	And actually your colleagues here vousvoy, not tutoying.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-20.u124	I have one more question for Mrs Kluit. The Minister has indicated that he is fully concerned with the derogation, with all kinds of issues that are taken and dragged into it. Does Mrs Kluit now think that we in Europe have not known in recent weeks and months that this was happening and that this will really be the decisive reason why the derogation will not be continued?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-20.u125	I think that the evaluation of the fisheries we were just talking about showed exactly that. Every step that is taken is placed within the wider framework of the standards and objectives that are ours in the European directives. We have to stick to that and we have to relate to it. It's never like it goes wrong at one time. It is a whole palette, of which they say: is this the colour we want to see in a country?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-20.u126	Then at least we are back to the fact that it is the whole, wide palette that will always play along. But I cannot imagine that the Minister would be prepared to respond to this later, perhaps with this slight adjustment, a matter as huge as the derogation would be at risk. I wonder what the Minister thinks of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-20.u127	Thank you. Then we go to Mrs Faber-van de Klashorst on behalf of the PVV group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-20.u128	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am pleased that the Minister has already indicated that he will often come to discuss agriculture in this Chamber. I look forward to it already. That's a nice entry. Next, on phosphate rights. There are too many phosphate rights, but actually the Minister, or his predecessor, has spent too many rights. I think it is very good that this sector is 13% below the phosphate ceiling for the sector. That's actually a very nice achievement. That's actually very good. In this respect, the Minister should be allowed to celebrate the reins much more for the farmers. This bill gives farmers a very small bit more flexibility. That will also be the reason why the PVV is going to vote in favour. In this case, we prefer more than less. Anyway, at least it's a start. Then there is the derogation. GroenLinks' colleague tried to scare us a little by saying that the derogation would be compromised. I don't think we have to be afraid of that. I think the Minister is perfectly capable of managing that. I think that GroenLinks is a factor for farmers to be afraid of. Anyway, that aside. So everyone can just have their own opinion in this house. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-20.u129	Thank you, Mrs Faber. Then Mr Schalk on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-20.u130	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you for the Minister's answers, in which I think he made everyone here very happy when he indicated that he is there for all the farmers. That, I think, makes everyone a lot happier. He has also indicated that the law we are discussing today is aimed at providing flexibility. In my humble opinion, he has also explained that we are at least below the phosphate ceiling at the moment. At least that's how I understood him. If it's different, of course I'd like to hear it. I also think that the Minister has made it quite clear that leasing means it has to go back, so you can't actually stack. I still have that question for the Minister. Mrs Kluit just indicated: if you do it a few years in a row, you've suddenly earned a cow. Is that really true? Or do you have to look at it the other way around: if you don't do this for a few years, you just lose a few cows? That could be the case. Mr. Chairman. In any case, I also felt it was important for the Minister to state that I understand his caution about the 100 kilos, so that it should not be too much to blame that he will be back in the course of this year, and that will be in the autumn, to this Chamber in what way this law has done what we expect it to do. If this is not appropriate enough, at least the Minister wants to see if there is still a need for adjustment, so let's just wait and see what comes out of the monitoring. Finally, Mr President, I should like to say a word about this. At the beginning of my first term, I completely forgot to congratulate the Minister on his new position. It is my custom to heartily wish God's blessing. That's what I do in this heavy duty. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-20.u131	Thank you, Mr. Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-20.u132	One more question. How does Mr. Schalk feel about emissions being produced, but it's not being registered, so we're denying it? Then it's very easy to stay under the ceiling, but it just isn't registered. How does Mr. Schalk feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-20.u133	I think the Minister has explained very well that the law is currently being applied as we have all adopted here. If that means that certain animals, for example in livestock farming, do not count for the phosphate ceiling, then that is included in the law, so there is not much you can do about it. At least that is how I understand Mr Kárakus' question. I've got his last name pretty good by now, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-20.u134	No, no, no, because his name is Karakús.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-20.u135	Ah! As chairman, you always know better.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-20.u136	We're gonna sit apart sometime, and we can practice! No, but that's my point too, because it happens. We're denying it. Eventually we are dealing with nature that is going to suffer and additional environmental pressure. Tonight it came to me as: "We don't care if we don't have to register and if we just stay under the ceiling. Yeah, we know there's extra emissions. But yes, we wouldn't mind." That's the impression I get, so that's why I'm asking: what do you think? Yeah, it might be legally correct. Yeah, it doesn't fall under phosphate rights. But it does happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-20.u137	I am very sorry if the SGP were to become a party that would think: we do not care so much. I think we have made incredibly difficult decisions, including as a SGP, in the past, about all kinds of decisions that had to be taken on legislation relating to farming. This law, which I judge on its merits, is, as far as I am concerned, simply offering a bit of flexibility to farmers who otherwise, without being able to do much about it, are being skimmed. With that skimming I would very much like to go back to the butter instead of skimming a whole cow.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-20.u138	Finally. You're right about skimming. Only, we are going to vote on a proposal later, but the consequence is very bad, namely that there will be additional emissions. That is the consequence of the proposal. I would ask you to take that into account as well. Even if it fits in formally, the emissions remain. It's about the environment, it's about nature.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-20.u139	The moment there's no skimming, it's logical that something doesn't go away. That's obvious. But that's every time to prevent you from having skimming that causes you to lose animals, which isn't really the intention, but that only has to do with moments of measurement. The Minister has explained, I think, six or seven times that he does not think there will be any deterioration. I'm gonna go along with that right now. Not everyone agrees, but I can't make my answer any better.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-20.u140	Then you'd better leave it at that, Mr. Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-20.u141	I will, Mr. Chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-20.u142	Then we'll go to Mr. Pijlman on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-20.u143	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for replying. You are actually saying that this bill is technical and is a clarification of phosphate rights, I would like to give farmers a limited degree of flexibility and, yes, I would also like to move gradually towards land-based farming and livestock farming. That's where we're actually in total agreement. You also say: I'm going to fight for the derogation. Well, I get that, too. Because if it were to disappear at once, we would have a huge crisis in the Netherlands. We also know that it may still be necessary to introduce additional measures in the Seventh Action Plan on nitrate. But there's one thing I just don't understand. I have tried this again and again in the case of interruption: why does this minister, who has these objectives, who has this coalition agreement, now think it is justified to say 'we will skip 10% of the phosphate bank, and you will need it to achieve those objectives'? You said that the President did not want me to say that. No, I'm sure you can, because it's a consequence of this bill. It's not about the future, it's a consequence of this bill. That is why I challenge you once again. That 100 kilos is too much. This flexibility could also have been regulated in a different way per company, including for large companies. I think that would have been even less bureaucratic. Thank you for the commitment that the AMvB will be submitted to this Chamber in some way. I'm facing a dilemma, Mr. Chairman. That is why I referred to the Hoekstra motion. We agree with two parts, but we do not agree with one part. It's about the future. The young cattle scheme, okay? The renovation lease, okay? But we do not think that such a large shrinkage of the phosphate bank is justified. That is why I will have to advise my group to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-20.u144	Thank you, Mr. Arrowman. I call Mr Koffeman on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-20.u145	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to thank the Minister very much for answering our questions. We indeed welcome and congratulate you on your appointment. The minister says, "I'm here for all the farmers." That is, of course, a fine intention in itself, but I know that, given his background, perhaps the Minister could also say something about Proverbs 12............................................................................................................................................................................................................. The moment you have 2 million chickens in the stable, you don't know the life of your animals and you're not a righteous farmer. I hope that you can sum up the 'I am there for all farmers' with 'I am there for all righteous farmers'. That would be good, because then we will be on the same track at least to see how we can improve agriculture. I can tell you that the Party for Animals is also the party for farmers. There is no party that is so heartbroken by the fact that seven agricultural family farms stop a day. We believe that the shore is turning the ship and that it would be a good thing for policy to also shape an agriculture that does justice to everything that is of value, i.e. both the life of the animals and the landscape and the nature, as well as the farmer's income and the security of the farmer's livelihood. The moment we work together on this, I think we can work together on this. As far as the supervisors are concerned, I have looked at the annual plan 2022 more topically than the NVWA. There the NVWA says that external investigations, i.e. not their own investigations "have shown that there has been a imbalance between the tasks and resources of NVWA for some years now." And: "This leads to sharp choices being made in the work that NVWA can carry out in 2022." So they feel very limited. "Together with the clients, the ministries of LNV and VWS, the NVWA is committed in 2022 to restoring the balance between our tasks and resources." So there's a lot more inability in that. There is good will, but not "yes, we can." So what the Minister said earlier in this debate, "yes, no problem, they just do; I have every confidence in it," is not evident from their annual plan 2022. You may have seen the draft annual plan 2023, but I don't think there is yet. So I hope that the Minister also wants to keep the finger on the wrist from the care that the NVWA itself expresses. I also think it is very important that we adopt an integrated policy for agriculture, especially in the interests of farmers. Farmers will not benefit if they are confronted with a new measure every time. They are currently facing a new measure. Even if the Minister says it is a helpful measure for farmers, it will not be of any use to them when this measure has been implemented and soon afterwards they will be faced with a new measure which is not entirely in line with this measure. This measure does not take account of the reduction in the number of animals kept in livestock farming, and the policy of the government is looking forward to this. So that means that a farmer who is now redecorating his phosphate rights will be told: now we are going to skim, but in a different sense. I have not yet heard a clear answer to Mr Karakus' question, which says: if you move into those categories, there will be more phosphate production on both sides. The Minister has really not been clear in his answer. He said I said what I said. That is certainly true, no one can deny that, but that is not the answer to Mr Karakus' question to my mind. I think it's okay to think about that for a while. We can see that the climate targets set in Europe, for example, are welcomed as 'yes, emissions have been reduced, we have achieved the targets', but then the small print shows that the targets do not include the emissions of biomass plants, aviation and the highly polluting shipping industry. Yes, if you're going to exclude categories, you're going to achieve all your goals, of course, but that can't be the intention. So I would nevertheless like to ask the Minister, also on behalf of Mr Karakus, I hope that I may speak on his behalf in this case in order to clarify that. More phosphate, even if it is outside the quota, is more phosphate, and we are not waiting for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-20.u146	Thank you, Mr. Coffeeman. I call Mr Janssen on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-20.u147	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for the answers. When regulating sectors through supervision and enforcement, it does not matter whether that is the meat industry or the livestock or the chemical industry, you always get one question back: be predictable, be consistent and do not change the rules every year, because that makes us crazy. In that respect, I understand Mr Karakus' questions. I've seen his torture today. Something seems very logical, but it doesn't comply with the law. The minister says if we don't count things in the law, it's right by the law. I'll say something about it in a minute. I have seen his torture and I agree with Mr Koffeman's call for Mr Karakus to go home more calmly. Then the NVWA. I'd like to get on with that. Mr Koffeman spared me that I had to read the quote from the annual programme. You don't have to do that anymore. It's not my purpose to attack the NVWA. Quite the contrary: I want that service strong and able to carry out their task. Deloitte's investigation in November 2020, which stated that the NVWA was so understaffed that two thirds of the tasks could not be carried out, was shocking. You're not gonna fix that in a year. It can't be. If they could get extra money now, they wouldn't have said no to that; I can understand that. But that doesn't mean you can do it. Mr. Chairman. I see, and my group sees, a predictable difference between theory and practice and between the Hague Bureau of Legislation and the farmers' inheritance. This also creates a problem in the feasibility and enforcement of this bill. It may not come as a surprise that this is the reason for the SP not to be able to support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-20.u148	Thank you, Mr. Janssen. I have never seen a Member of Parliament who, with so little speaking time, zero minutes, was able to mobilise such a large number of followers. That is really worth a prize for Mr Karakus. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the second term? That is not the case. Minister, are you able to respond directly to the questions of the Chamber? A few minutes, I hear. Then I'll suspend until 8:20.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-20.u149	I give the floor to the Minister for Agriculture, Nature and Food Quality.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-20.u150	Mr President, thank you for the floor. I'm gonna try to clear up some misunderstandings first. Mr Karakus has asked me a number of times. It may be my inexperience, but I am going to try to give a clear and clear answer to the questions raised here by your Chamber and also to remove some ambiguity. This concerns the total of the phosphate production ceiling. All animals in the Netherlands are included. So there is no phosphate accounting going from one thing to another. It concerns the total of phosphate accounting in the Netherlands. The Netherlands has a total ceiling and this is laid down in the Fertilisers Act. This is divided into sectors: dairy, pigs, poultry and other. Meat cattle fall into the category other than meat. This means that this should not be taken into account for phosphate production. This is to give a clear answer to your questions, Mr. Karakus. Then I'm going to try to convince Mr. Pijlman. Mr Pijlman has spoken to me a number of times about flexibility, which is 10%. My argument on this is that 90% remains, that I am heading for ground-boundness and that I am going to propose specific legislation that goes much further. I see this as the first step and I hope I can convince the D66 Group that this is a good step in the right direction. Then to GroenLinks: the question about the Eerste Kamer's control over the AMvB about the renovation lease. The bill has no pending procedure for this AMvB. What I have promised is that the AMvB's draft will be sent to this Chamber. I can do that when the design goes into internet consultation. In the context of the internet consultation, anyone can respond to the design. The responses will be involved in the further preparation of the AMvB. Your Chamber is free to issue this letter. There is therefore every room for written or oral input. That's up to you. Then ask the NVWA if they have sufficient capacity. The NVWA has sufficient capacity to enforce the phosphate rights system, as I have told you. Together with the NVWA we make sharp selections based on manure registration and I&R registration. The companies that are in breach can therefore be controlled risk-oriented with limited capacity. We are very keen on that. We've been asked to stack the 10%. How to prevent stacking? I have said that it cannot be prevented, but that in principle the 100 kilograms lease can be leased annually to provide flexibility. This does not mean that a farm faces an increase in milk production every year and then uses it. So it's not like a farmer can stack it every year and grow it like that. Let me now turn to the issue of derogation and the question of whether this law is jeopardising a derogation. I am not risking the derogation with this law. I have already said that the legislative proposal has been coordinated with the European Commission. I told you that the negotiations on the derogation have not yet been completed. And one final question about the enforcement by the NVWA. In recent years, the NVWA has anticipated this bill in enforcement. I have promised you that I will see to it. Mr President, those were the questions I was asked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-20.u151	Thank you, Minister. I will close the debate and come to the finalisation of the bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-20.u152	Does one of the Members wish to vote on the bill? That's the case. Then I suggest that we vote on the bill at the end of the sitting tonight. I would like to thank Members and the Minister for the debate. I waited a while to see if the Chamber would come up with it. That didn't happen, so I have to do it myself. I congratulate the Minister on his birthday last week on Valentine's Day, not to mention a crown year. Good luck next year, Minister!
