ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-3.u1	The next item is the debate on a number of proposals for amending the Constitution. This concerns a second reading of legislative proposals 35784, 35785, 35786, 35787, 35789 and 35790. You will not be surprised if I ask Members to make their contribution as much as possible per amendment. This also applies later this day to the answer given by the Minister; I would also ask the Minister to respond as much as possible in the proposed blocks.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-3.u2	I should first like to give the floor to Mr Ganzevoort. He speaks on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-3.u3	Mr President, thank you. We have a special debate today. The amendment of the Constitution does not happen very often, and rightly so. The stability of our rule of law means that the Constitution and the Statute for the Kingdom are not changed for every wipe, but it is possible. This is how we keep the Constitution up-to-date and alive. For example, the Constitution remains a guiding and framework, even if we debate and review laws here. It is not without meaning that, as we sit here, we have all sworn our allegiance to the Constitution. Maybe we should talk to each other about that a little more often. Today is particularly special because we are discussing six amendments, two of which even result from a motion in this Chamber. We have no right of initiative, but motions here can sometimes make sense. In substance, the debate has already been held once, because it is the second reading and all the proposals seem to be reaching a majority. In any case, my group will support them all; I will give that away. That is why today I will only briefly go through the various proposals with a single question and comment. First of all, the provision on the right to a fair trial, following the motion by former colleague Lokin-Sassen. It expresses what is self-evident in a democratic rule of law: citizens are protected from arbitrariness and abuse of power by the government. Unfortunately, this is urgently needed, also in the Netherlands, because the government is not always reliable and because access to justice and good legal aid is not always guaranteed. The report of our own parliamentary committee of inquiry also shows that it is not easy to obtain justice when you are discriminated against. But it is also difficult to get a fair trial for people who ask for asylum here, for example. This passage in the Constitution must therefore not remain a dead letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-3.u4	I agree!
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-3.u5	It's always nice to hear yourself back with some delay.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-3.u6	Mr Ganzevoort continued.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-3.u7	Yes. Is that how the government sees it? Does the government therefore regard this article of the Constitution as an obligation to actively improve access to justice? Then 35785, the electoral college non-residents for the election of the First Chamber. At first reading, we discussed the methodology. We will also check with the Election College if the commitment made at first reading has been met that the proportionality of the voting values will be optimised in the revision of the Election Act. That will be a very technical discussion, but we will have it. The other point is the position of Dutch people who live in one of the Caribbean Kingdom countries and who are now excluded here. I really have a question about that. In the meantime, unlike at first reading, has there been any consultation with the three countries? How do we feel about the problem of people being affected by legislation - ordinary laws, not national laws - which we adopt here, but which they do not have a say in? I come to the legislative proposal 35786 on the general provision that the Netherlands is a democratic rule of law. Re-emerging from a motion of this Chamber of the then English Member. Again explication of a self-evidentity. My group is surprised that there are parties who have opposed the legislative proposal in previous proceedings. Perhaps their vote against is the best illustration of why this is really necessary. But let me put it in more detail: it is above all the core task of this Chamber to review any proposal that comes along on democratic and constitutional grounds. I really understand if people think this explicit preamble is unnecessary, but I do not understand if parties oppose it. Then there is the legislative proposal 35787 on the expiry of detailed provisions. Looks like a no-brainer to us. Then there is the legislative proposal 35789, the amendment of the Constitutional Reform Procedure. I have already said at first reading that we agree with that. Yes, it will sometimes come out better or less well for each of us politically, but this is just the pure approach; so we support it. Then there is the proposal 35790 on the immunity of letter and telecommunications secrecy. Now that more e-mails than telegrams are being sent, it is good that the Constitution is being brought up to date. Mr. Chairman. Slightly staccato brings me to the end of my term. I look forward to the answer to two questions: one on access to justice and one on access to the Dutch in the Caribbean Kingdom countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-3.u8	Thank you, then the floor is for Mr Van Hattem. He is speaking on behalf of the PVV Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-3.u9	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman. At the present second reading of the constitutional changes, I am not going to repeat everything that has already been discussed at first reading, but there are still a number of problems and new developments that need to be discussed. Firstly, with regard to the legislative proposal to add a general provision to the Constitution that the Netherlands is a democratic rule of law. The only thing this constitutional article will really clarify is whether the word rule of law should be spelled with one s or double s. The Constitution prescribes this with double s. So from now on a point of deduction for those who write this with a single s in the constitutional law exam. That is therefore the only concrete consequence of this legislative proposal, because the substance of the addition of this general provision has no added value whatsoever. What is much more relevant is the question of whether in practice the legal requirements are met by this government, or: is it so sincere to include this general provision as a fulfilled fact? Legal status is characterised by the principle of legality. So government action within the limits of law and with the legal basis, power distribution, i.e. with the separation of powers, guaranteeing fundamental rights and judicial control. All these elements are not of course in trusted hands with our government. On the contrary, the Rutte cabinet depends on the scandals, resigns because, precisely in the case of the surcharge scandal, the rule of law was too grabble and then continues happily as if nothing had happened. Such a general provision is therefore mainly a paper reality with these polder Machiavellis at the helm. Like Mayor Aboutaleb of Rotterdam, who, according to the NRC of 15 June last, deliberately kept out of publicity an investigation on the enforcement of corona rules, which involved violating privacy rules, because this was bad for the municipal elections. That the boundaries of the law are sought out and crossed, we also see in the rutte doctrine. The disappearance of text messages is bon ton for this Rutte cabinet. Can the Minister indicate how this general provision should relate to this anti-legal behaviour of the government and of this cabinet in particular? What is the value of this Constitutional provision if the cabinet has been fooling around with other constitutional articles in the meantime?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-3.u10	We know a lot of what colleague Van Hattem says. Those are major shortcomings in our rule of law. But I do not understand why that should be an argument in order not to include in our Constitution that the Netherlands is a democratic rule of law. That's what you call it. Mr Van Hattem says: why do we have to take up facts? On the contrary, he states that it is not a fact that even a country as well as the Netherlands, as well as a country as well, can seriously infringe the rule of law and the democratic rule of law. So the connection between what he finds to failure and his remark 'that's why you don't have to include it' is really weird, because then you could say that everything in the Constitution has been given. Everything has to be protected. Everything needs to be guarded.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-3.u11	And your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-3.u12	Why say that the democratic rule of law would be superfluous, where Mr Van Hattem correctly states what would be wrong?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-3.u13	Precisely because it is such a hypocritical thrashing to include it in this way, by saying that the Netherlands is a democratic rule of law, while everything I have just mentioned shows that there are so many points that we have to establish that this is simply not the case. First, work hard to solve these problems to show that you are also a democratic rule of law and want to be, before you, as a cabinet, have the courage to present this to this Chamber at second reading of 'we are a democratic rule of law'. Then get over the bridge first, show me what you're worth. At the moment, it is simply not worth including it in the Constitution in this way. Why don't you get to work first?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-3.u14	Our colleague Van Hattem can speak well, but we are going to do one by one, as we say in Brabant. Article 1 states that there should be no discrimination. That's an assignment, but it's not reality. We saw that in the tax scandal. We have an article that says you have freedom of speech. That is being violated at times. That is why we have included this in a provision in the Constitution, not because it is a description of reality but because it is the duty of the State to its citizens.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-3.u15	But those are constitutional articles. They also really aim to set legislation in motion. Now it is included as a general provision, as some sort of state of affairs of "this is what we are." That makes it different. That makes it different than, say, the full constitutional articles. That makes this a hypocritical provision that if you want to do it this way, is actually just a show for the stage. And we're not gonna cooperate on that show.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-3.u16	Mr. Kox, for the last one.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-3.u17	So Mr Van Hattem would have agreed if it had not been a preamble, if it had not been a general provision, but if it had been Article 1 of the Constitution. Then it wouldn't have been a problem. I'm glad we're at least on the same page. Then it is only the place that the provision in the Constitution gets. But then Mr Van Hattem and I do not disagree that it is good to note that this is the task for the State and for society.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-3.u18	Now Mr Kox is putting words in my mouth that I have not used. I did not say that I would agree with the recording. Then there is the question of what would happen at that time, what is the meaning and content of it and whether we would agree with it. But that's not before now. There is now a preamble that we cannot use. That is what we say: stop that show and just get to work to treat our citizens properly in this country. If we look at how this rule of law works, at the parents in the supplement scandal or at our farmers who are being pushed out of the way, then this country has a lot more problems to solve than to include such a totally meaningless preamble at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-3.u19	A question to Mr Van Hattem. Does he think that the Netherlands should be a democratic constitutional state?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-3.u20	Absolutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-3.u21	That content is important to me. I understand the weighting that it may not be necessary to record. I do have another constitutional question. Mr Van Hattem just suggested that the government is hypocritical, now that the government is proposing something like this now when it's not realizing it. Did I get that correctly?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-3.u22	That's basically what it's all about, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-3.u23	Is Mr Van Hattem aware that this is a proposal that does not come from the cabinet but from a motion from this Chamber? In other words, Parliament has said in the end: best government, best government, you must guarantee a democratic rule of law here. So it is a proposal that has come from Parliament, precisely to appeal to the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-3.u24	This Chamber is also part of the government. She's one of our government agencies. This Chamber of Commerce which will be discussed in a moment is also largely hypocritical, but I will come back to that in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-3.u25	Mr Ganzevoort fourth, so last.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-3.u26	Yeah, but this place is just state-law bullshit. Parliament is not part of the government. Parliament is a representative of the people and the auditor and co-legislator. As co-legislator, we're here, as co-constitutionalist, even today. As an inspector, we call on the government. As a parliament, this Parliament has said: government, this must be a democratic rule of law, and you are responsible for that. I would like to ask Mr Van Hattem, if he wants to talk about the double s in the rule of law, to make state law even better.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-3.u27	Mr Ganzevoort is again putting words in my mouth. I didn't say it was part of the executive branch of our government. The point is and will continue to be that we can put in such a preamble in this way, but that simply conceals the misery that we are dealing with at the moment, with our farmers who are being thrown away, with our citizens who have been treated in a scandal, et cetera, et cetera. You shouldn't condone that here. We are simply not going to participate in this kind of whitewashing through the Constitution. As beautiful as Mr Ganzevoort wants to argue it all and as important as it is, we are here recording a nonsense preamble.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-3.u28	You're prosecuting.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-3.u29	Mr President, I shall continue my speech. What is the value of this provision of the Constitution if the cabinet is now using other constitutional articles, such as Article 68 of the Constitution? Can MPs receive complete and correct information if they ask for it? And so no completely black-painted pages, like the reports from the climate tables. Let's take a look at this First Chamber, like I said. After the debacle of not achieving the legally required quorum on Monday evening, a significant part of this Chamber now pleads for a digital quorum. However, the Council of State has made it clear that this is contrary to Article 67 of the Constitution, now that there is no urgent emergency. As far as the division of power is concerned, in the Wilder process, we have unfortunately been able to see that the separation of powers turns out to be a sham when the executive, the cabinet, became involved in the prosecution as part of the judiciary. On the other hand, judges are increasingly interfering with the legislative power, by making activist statements and giving their own expression to political objectives, such as in the Urgenda case. Or the judge who is in the program Viewing in the Soul stated that PVV's will not be able to become a judge. Can the Minister indicate how such judicial activism relates to this general provision? With regard to guaranteeing fundamental rights, we have seen in the corona measures that the government is very fickle about this. Fundamental rights from the Constitution are called upon to enforce measures with poor support and, at the same time, fundamental rights are restricted disproportionately and without valid justification. We saw this, for example, in the use of curfew, where prompt de Wbbbg, the Act of extraordinary powers of civil authority, was taken to lock people in their homes and restrict their fundamental freedoms, applying exceptional state emergency law without a valid justification. And when using the corona access card, which was an indirect urge for vaccination, Article 11 of the Constitution, the inviolability of the human body, was very easily dismissed while the ctb offered merely false safety. In the debate on the extension of the Temporary Measures Covid-19 Act on 21 February, I also gave an example of what I would like to highlight in this context. In the proposed amendment to the Twm to introduce the so-called 1G policy, the Minister referred to the right to health care under Article 22 of the Constitution as well as to international conventions as regards fundamental rights and proportionality. He said, and I quote: 'There is therefore a constitutional and human duty for the cabinet to act to protect public health'. The Minister added that these measures are necessary to restrict certain human rights, such as respect for privacy, Article 10 Constitution and 8 ECHR, and these restrictions are allowed in the Minister's view because they are necessary in a democratic society. The Minister only referred to the 142th OMT opinion as the sole justification for the proportionality of this restriction of fundamental rights. He said about this, and I quote again: "On the basis of this opinion, the cabinet may assume that the measures are appropriate. The OMT opinion therefore also reflects the need to take appropriate measures quickly." In short, there was broad recourse to Article 22 Constitution, and non-substantiated assumptions were considered sufficient to underpin the reduction of fundamental rights. People threatened to be seriously affected in their fundamental rights, such as Article 20 of the Constitution, security of existence, and Article 19 of the Constitution, employment and free choice of employment, by the cabinet proposals for 2G policies in the workplace. Nevertheless, the cabinet has maintained these proposals for a long time to come. Can the Minister explain how this handling of fundamental rights around the corona measures relates to the purpose of the general provision in question?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-3.u30	I agree with Mr Van Hattem that we should look very closely, including as a Chamber, at situations where fundamental rights do indeed threaten to be restricted in an incorrect way. But I also heard Mr Van Hattem say that he thinks there is activist justice. He mentioned, I think, the Urgenda case. I think he's also thinking about the PAS pronunciation. Can Mr Van Hattem tell me what he is suggesting that the judge did not base himself on legal rules in these cases? In fact, if Mr Van Hattem is so in favour of these fundamental rights... I now believe that the Urgenda case is entirely based on the protection of citizens who are derived from fundamental rights. How does Mr Van Hattem see that as activism?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-3.u31	In the Urgenda case, the judge himself fulfilled the necessary objective to be achieved in the climate field on the basis of CO emissions to be achieved. So that really is just a purely activist interpretation of what has not been laid down by the legislator as such. And that's the problem with this kind of right-wing activism. It just needs to be stopped. That has nothing to do with the protection of fundamental rights. That's a step too far where the judge just needs to get back in his booth.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-3.u32	If a judge is going to judge an unfair restriction of a fundamental right in Mr Van Hattem's view, he must also implement those fundamental rights and, apparently, engage in activist activity. However you turn or turn, I cannot imagine that Mr Van Hattem can show that one of those judgments will show that the judge says: I am not looking at the law at all; I am looking at my political preference and that is where I base my decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-3.u33	So that's what the judge did. He said: we think it is so important that these climate objectives are met, that this should be the CO target to be met on the basis of that Urgenda case. So there's just something that hasn't been decided by the legislator. That's why the judge just out of line.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-3.u34	Thirdly, Mr Nicolaï. I suggest we go back to the agenda.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-3.u35	Very briefly. Then I would advise Mr Van Hattem to read that statement again, because then you will see that it is not a matter of its own, but rather a matter entirely based on previous statements by legislators, regulators and so on.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-3.u36	Van Hattem. I repeat what I said: I suggest that we be guided above all by today's agenda.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-3.u37	Let me now turn to the issue of judicial review. How sustainable is it from that point of view to call the Netherlands a democratic rule of law when part of your jurisdiction is given away? For example, some of the investigative and prosecution powers are now in the hands of the European Public Prosecutor's Office. So that's not what we're talking about anymore. I would like to hear from the Minister how this general provision relates to the European Public Prosecutor's Office. Mr. Chairman. The general provision refers to a democratic rule of law. What is called democratic does not yet have to be democratic, for example, teaches us the history of the Deutsche Demokratische Republik, who, with its GDR-Verfassung, also had a democratic and constitutional constitution on paper. The Stasi let the citizens experience something quite different. The question is to what extent it is democratic. After all, we have a whole system of unelected officials who exercise far-reaching powers: mayors, Commissioners of the King, dikes, not directly elected by the citizens of Parliament and an unelected European Commission. There is also an increasing number of non-democratically elected consultative bodies, including the lack of democratic control and transparency, while increasing the number of tasks and powers, such as climate tables, regional consultation tables, asylum reception, security regions and the Security Council. Columnist Syp Wynia made the following comment on Twitter last week: "A few years ago, no one had heard of 25 security regions, in which appointed mayors make up the service. They were about the fire department. Then they went over the corona measures. Now they're about the asylum seekers. An uncontrolled monster is being rolled out over us." The reaction of the mayor of Dordrecht, Wouter Kolff, himself represented in the security region, was striking. I quote: "It's a bit awkwardly brought from Syp Wynia, but the point is right. Either you hold elections at the level of 25 regions (which then deal with more than security), or you go back to what they are for: the fire department and acute crisis management." End of quote by Mr Kolff. From the inside, therefore, the gaping democratic gap in our system is now also being overcome. Can the Minister explain how this democratic deficit relates to the general provision on the rule of law?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-3.u38	And now Mr. Otten.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-3.u39	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I fully agree with Mr Van Hattem that many aspects do not comply with the democratic rule of law in the Netherlands. He talks about the security regions that now form a very own kingdom. It was once meant for the fire department, but it's expanding. We have unelected Commissioners of the King, we have unelected mayors as one of the few countries in the world. At the same time, we are also seeing its regional function increase in importance. Our group has proposed that the country should be divided into five or six regions, that regional parliaments should be elected with an elected Commissioner of the King, governor or whatever you want to call it, President of the Regional Parliament, and that the provinces should be abolished. Then you can effectively control regionalisation and have a democratic legitimacy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-3.u40	And your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-3.u41	Does Mr Van Hattem agree with me that this would be a very good solution to this problem?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-3.u42	It is a little outside the scope of this debate, but in principle it amounts to a scaling-up of the existing provinces, with perhaps a slightly different division of labour. But that is not really what is at issue here, and it does not really solve the problems of democratic legitimacy in this way, except for the directly elected Commissioners and mayors and so on. That's the step you should take first. What is further to the division of the state system is not under discussion today.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-3.u43	Mr Van Hattem is right to raise this point, which is a major problem. So I'd also like to hear what he thinks. That many things need to be tackled regionally, I think we agree on that. Everyone agrees on that. That's why you're now getting all these weird undemocratic regional common structures, a true wild growth. So I would also like to hear how the PVV Group would like to solve this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-3.u44	The point is, you're just gonna have to cut into that wild growth. You have to put an end to all these uncontrolled non-democratically elected consultative bodies and structures and put them in a democratically controlled and transparent way. Whether all kinds of new regional structures should then be put in place is a second. We're not talking about that right now. We now have the provinces and the municipalities. We're gonna have to do it with that. We need to draw a line through this crazy proliferation of consultative bodies that we have no insight into, that we do not get reports from, that there is no democratic direction on. This contributes to a democratic rule of law and not so much to reclassifying provinces.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-3.u45	Mr Van Hattem is very interested in that provision in relation to what the situation of the Netherlands is like now. Actually, I'm curious about the following. Suppose Mr. Van Hattem had lived in the time of Thorbecke, who had said: "Goo, Mr. Van Hattem, think with me. General provisions, we are going to draft a new constitution." If at that time he had come up with a new constitution with these general provisions on, among other things, the democratic rule of law, would you have been enthusiastic about this when he wrote a new constitution?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-3.u46	I believe that Mr Thorbecke has put his proposal for a constitution on paper in a few weeks' time. I dive here in the library last year, in the old building, and I reread Thorbecke's original pieces. I liked the extremely clear language in which Thorbecke had written his lyrics. That is something I am missing in the present Constitution and in general in what is being put on the table here. With such a general provision, you don't make it much clearer. That is another vague piece, which leads to vague interpretation. If I had to do it as in the time of Thorbecke, I would also like to use the clear language, the clear language and also the direct explanation that Thorbecke had in mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-3.u47	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-3.u48	Could it not be, especially in view of the criticisms you have made, a number of recognizable points, that it is precisely the writing down in that general provision that gives you, as a Member of Parliament, additional possibilities and ammunition to point out where implementation of policies, legislation, is contrary to this general provision? Doesn't inclusion give us an extra figurative stick to catch up with in the debate?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-3.u49	We already have enough figurative sticks to hit with. We already have enough to test. On the contrary, it is important that this should be done once and for all. This can be done just fine with what we now have in terms of legal powers, with the Constitution that is now in place. We must already regard ourselves as a democratic rule of law. To write that down again in a sentence and to beat ourselves on the chest with 'we are a democratic rule of law' does not add anything to that. This is a general provision from which nothing can be derived, so if it is really serious, then this simply has very little to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-3.u50	Mr Van Hattem continues.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-3.u51	Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands has a long constitutional tradition, starting with the Union of Utrecht in 1579. But even earlier there was talk of constitutional charters in the Netherlands. In 1312 the Charter of Cortenberg was proclaimed in the Duchy of Brabant, which described the freedoms of the citizen, which not only protected the nobles. And in 1356 the Happy Return, which limited the power of the prince over his subjects. So these were administrative weapons against royal arbitrariness. But what does such a general provision still do for the freedoms of our citizens? How are our farmers and citizens protected from the omnipotence of a ruler? Those rulers are now mainly the power hungry Eurocrats in Brussels. Such a general provision will simply roll over our Constitution and allow our farmers to give up their land and businesses for the sake of EU nature objectives and impose climate measures and a DCC regulation for a digital corona certificate from Brussels without saying anything about it. So can the Minister indicate what this general provision still does to the power of the EU? Mr. Chairman. Then about the electoral college for non-residents for the election of the Upper Chamber. The Minister wants to distinguish in the implementing legislation between residents of Dutch provinces and non-residents. For example, they pay a lower deposit to participate in the elections, because it would only be a limited group of voters and the sole aim is to vote on the composition of the First Chamber. That's an unauthorized distinction. It does not need to be made easier or more advantageous for this group than for residents of our country, especially since foreign residents of the Netherlands are not burdened with the negative consequences of policies in our provinces, such as wind turbines and asylum seekers' centres. Nor is it subject to a tax on residents by the provinces, which are already being planned. This creates a situation of representation without taxation for a select target group. Is the Minister prepared to rectify this unequal treatment? The same applies to the submission of declarations of support. This cannot be done digitally for Dutch residents, but for foreign non-residents. If, according to the Minister, it could be done in a safe manner according to the procedure outlined, should it not apply equally to our own residents? And if there are risks of fraud, shouldn't there be a complete abandonment? I'd like a response. The Minister also makes a link for implementation with the Temporary Act on Digital Discussion and Decision-making at the decentralised level. Can the Minister state what it means for this bill if this law, as this Chamber requires, is not renewed and if it is not ultimately made into a permanent law? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. Finally, on the proposal on letter secrecy. Can the Minister explain how this proposal relates to the recently identified problems of large-scale cable-based data interception, including the retention of data longer than permitted by law? How does this provision relate to such interception and what does the provision for scanning for metadata mean? Mr President, as far as first time is concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-3.u52	Thank you. I see that there is another interruption by Mr Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-3.u53	I would like to return to a point made by Mr Van Hattem in the discussion of the general provision bill. Let me be clear, I am not in favour of that general provision either. Only, in the interrupting debate, Mr Van Hattem said that there was a certain time when the First Chamber would be hypocritical. A number of examples were then mentioned. You cannot agree with some of those laws; I have that very regularly, last week, when it comes to, for example, the right to life of the unborn child. The question to Mr Van Hattem is whether, on the basis of the performances you reject, you can say that this Chamber is hypocritical. That would mean that the democratic process here was wrong. Is that what's going on?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-3.u54	No, Mr Schalk did not hear me say that. I have specifically referred to the fact that a large part of this Chamber is now advocating such a general provision, and how important it is to include it. At the same time, they are passionately advocating the crackdown on Article 67 of the Constitution. They want to introduce a digital quorum, while there is no acute need for it, and the Council of State has expressly said that this is not possible and not desirable in the current circumstances. The legal history of the Constitution also shows that it was clearly stated at Thorbecke's time that there should be a physical presence at the meeting in The Hague during discussion and decision-making and that there should be no digital quorum.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-3.u55	I think this explanation is important. The hypocrisy therefore focused on this aspect, which has not yet been decided in this Chamber. I'm glad to say so. So it hasn't been decided in the First Chamber. There are a number of people who would like to do so, but that should still be converted into a decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-3.u56	That is why I am also saying that part of this Chamber is passionately advocating this, whereas part of it is the same people or the same groups who attach great importance to this totally meaningless general provision.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-3.u57	Thank you. This was Mr Van Hattem's contribution. I give the floor to Mr Dittrich. He is speaking on behalf of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-3.u58	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Today we are talking about six legislative proposals that amend the Constitution, at second reading. So we have talked about this before in this Chamber. I can tell you that I am speaking not only on behalf of D66 but also on behalf of the Animal Party. So let's see how that works out. Mr. Chairman. I shall begin with the new Article 17, the right to a fair trial. We believe it is important that the right to a fair trial is now enshrined in the text of the Constitution. One of the reasons is that the law as enshrined in the Constitution is more extensive than the scope of Article 6 of the European Convention on Human Rights, which already applies in the Netherlands. This concerns civil law, administrative law and criminal law, but also, for example, foreign law. In determining the merits of an action brought, one is entitled to a fair trial, but also in determining rights and obligations. This makes the new Constitutional Article 17 important. So that must not be or become a wash nose. During the previous treatment at first instance, the child care allowance scandal has been discussed on several occasions. We all know that public authorities such as the Tax Administration have acted in an incredibly wrong way, and those seeking justice in the Netherlands have suffered. The judges, who are there to speak independently and impartially about disputes, have also attracted the fine. In other debates, this scandal has been dealt with in detail. The various actors have promised to get better. There are many facets to the right to a fair trial. In legal practice, there appear to be bottlenecks which deserve our attention as co-legislator. I would like to ask the government a number of questions about this. They are aspects of, for example, the criminal proceedings that do not normally lead to major headlines, but which are of great importance for people in the Netherlands, for example when they are suing against the government. It is common for the State to make a mistake in a specific case, to conclude a settlement agreement with the deputy and to grant a sum of damages. In future, if the State pays compensation to citizens in the context of the new administrative culture, is the government prepared to waive the clause that the content of the scheme should not be communicated to the outside world? I ask this because people learn from mistakes and how to deal with them. Then society must be made a part of it. So I'd like a response from the Minister. What lawyers regularly encounter is that the Public Prosecutor's Office actively contacts the Dutch media prior to and during a criminal case. That is to inform the public, but sometimes also to influence the public. When it comes to the right to a fair trial, you might ask: why does the D.A. actually do that? How does the Minister view this? Should there not be a code of conduct for the Public Prosecutor, as is the case for lawyers, for example? If the Public Prosecutor thinks he should look up the media, shouldn't it inform the defense in good time in the context of equality of arms? How does the Minister feel about that? If material is seized in criminal proceedings, such as computers, accounting, etc., then the Public Prosecutor's Office may refuse access to the defence and also refuse to provide copies, while this is really relevant for the proper assessment of the case. Is it not important, in the context of a fair trial, for the defence to have the same information as the Public Prosecutor's Office based on in good time? Should the Code of Criminal Procedure be amended for this purpose? So far, the Public Prosecutor's Office has determined what does and what doesn't end up in the criminal record. In other countries, such as the United States, this right is enshrined in the law within the framework of equality of arms. Mr. Chairman. Unfortunately, it appears that the prosecution does not include exculpatory witnesses' statements in the file and does not inform the defence of its existence. The question is therefore: what is the value of a judicial investigation if exculpatory facts are kept out of the file? Because a prosecutor belongs to the judiciary. He serves the truth finding. Attorneys regularly complain that exculpatory evidence is not presented by the police and the Public Prosecutor's Office. How does the Minister respond to that? What can be done about this, do we want to implement the right to a fair trial properly? I would remind you that yesterday there was a big article in the Volkskrant about the Deventer murder case, which also mentioned that certain detectives had not included certain facts about a scent test with dogs in the file and had received a stand for it. This proves that things like this can occur in all kinds of cases. Sometimes it also happens that really incorrect information is recorded in a report, for example that a witness wanted to make a statement or did not mention any fact, while later it turns out that the witness explicitly stated the opposite. Is the Minister prepared to communicate clearly to the Public Prosecutor and the police that this is contrary to the basic rules of truth finding and organising a fair trial? Then something else. The Legal Assistance Board is formally governed by the Ministry of Justice and Security. If someone has to sue against the State, for example the Public Prosecutor's Office, it does not feel right for the Council to decide whether or not someone is eligible for funded legal aid. Is the Minister prepared to examine whether it is possible that, when the government is a trial party, an organisation more remote from the JenV Ministry will consider whether funded legal aid can be allocated? A Dutchman who is arrested abroad for a criminal offence committed abroad is, in principle, not entitled to funded legal assistance under the law, because the Dutch interest would be lacking. But sometimes the witnesses to that foreign case take place in the Netherlands precisely because the witnesses are Dutch and live here. The foreign lawyer of the Dutchman must then employ a Dutch lawyer for legal aid. And that Dutch lawyer sometimes has to spend hours preparing the case and attending witnesses' interviews with the Dutch judge-supervisor in relevant cases. Will the Legal Aid Council continue to say: 'It is a foreign matter, there is a lawyer, the law does not provide for this situation'? But if the Dutch suspect is unable to pay a Dutch lawyer in detention abroad, he will find himself at a huge disadvantage. My question to the Minister is whether, in the context of a fair trial, there should be a hardness clause in the regulation as regards the provision concerning the Dutch interest. Strangely enough, in a case in which the Legal Assistance Council says that the Dutch interest is lacking, the costs of legal aid are reimbursed by Dutch witnesses who in the Netherlands are required to make a statement to the court commissioner in that foreign criminal case. Does it happen more often that the D.A. does reimburse witnesses' legal aid, but not the defendant's? What's that based on? What does the Minister actually think of that? Mr. Chairman. Already in the time of Minister of Foreign Affairs Hans van Mierlo has been agreed with the House of Representatives that every Dutchman who is in pre-trial custody abroad, or is serving his sentence, should be visited periodically by a Dutch embassy employee. The right to a fair trial also extends to Dutch in foreign detention, especially when a request to transfer the execution of the sentence can be made. The Netherlands has a duty of care. This should not become dependent on the media attention that a lawyer in the Netherlands can generate in order to enforce such a visit abroad. My question to the Minister is: are all Dutch prisoners visited in foreign detention, as agreed with Parliament? Are there countries with white spots? Where can this improve? Mr. Chairman. The constitutional right to a fair trial will only come to life if the Dutch State behaves fairly and fairly. It is therefore important to include this right in the Constitution. I therefore hope that legal practice will show that improvements will result from inclusion in the Constitution. I am therefore looking forward with interest to the Minister's reply, although I am aware that the portfolios of her colleagues at the JenV ministry are also affected by this. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the constitutional change on a electoral college elected by non-residents for the election of the First Chamber. I lived abroad for 12 years, in New York and Berlin. When something happened in the Netherlands, people always came after me. This applies to all Dutch people abroad. Then they immediately asked: what is going on in the Netherlands? If you live abroad as a Dutchman, you are, as it were, an ambassador of your own country on an interhuman level. Then it is strange that as a Dutchman from abroad you can participate in the Lower House elections, or in the elections to the European Parliament, but not in the election of the First Chamber, just because you do not live in a Dutch province or in the Caribbean Netherlands. The bill we're discussing today will fix it. Of course, it is important to know what the implementing law will look like and what choices the House of Representatives will make about, for example, the voting value. Can the Dutch be compared abroad with those in a province? How exactly does that work? We believe that this debate should not take place now, but when the implementing law comes our way. The proposal was submitted to the House of Representatives in April, as I recall. It would be very nice if the new system could be applied at the Provincial State elections in March 2023, but it would have to be accepted by the House of Representatives quickly and then discussed here again. Is that feasible in terms of time? How does the Minister view this? Mr. Chairman. Then there is the constitutional change on the inclusion of the general provision in the Constitution. In 2012, the First Chamber adopted the motion of Hans Engels of D66 on that general provision in the Constitution. It expresses the fact that the Netherlands is a democratic constitutional state. We believe it is important that this general provision precedes Article 1 of the Constitution and, as it were, sets out the framework from which the Constitution, a living document, should be read. I ask the Minister what other changes to the Constitution are actually planned for the government. How is the Constitution brought to the attention of education? The Constitution will soon exist for 175 years. What attention is the government going to pay to this? Article 120 of the Constitution states that the courts may not review the laws against the Constitution. The Remkes State Committee proposes constitutional review. The coalition agreement also writes about this. When can we then receive in the First Chamber the main note of the Minister with variants of that constitutional review? It is a subject that the First Chamber is very close to. We would like to discuss this further with the Minister. Mr. Chairman. Finally, the change in the Constitution of the provision on the immunity of letter, telephone and telegraph secrecy. We welcome the fact that the wording in the new text is made technologically neutral, but it remains difficult to find out when citizens are protected against the government on the basis of Article 13 or on the basis of the privacy article 10. That has to do with the content of the messages or the transport of those messages. My final question to the Minister is: can the Minister explain the delineation of these articles for the history of law? 'Cause it's kind of complicated to figure that out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-3.u59	Thank you. There is an interruption by Mr Schalk, and I do not rule out the previous point you raised.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-3.u60	Yes, Mr President, it is true that we are still discussing the general provision. Mr Dittrich explicitly said that he considered it important that that general provision preceded Article 1 of the Constitution. But I hope he means the whole Constitution, otherwise we will make it much more complicated.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-3.u61	That's a good point. Yes, to Article 1 and the other articles of the Constitution. But, as with treaties, it is very important that there is a general provision that sets out a kind of framework and then reads the text, so that you know: hey, this is the democratic rule of law; it is really important that we look at the Constitution through those glasses and that we act accordingly.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-3.u62	Thank you. This was Mr Dittrich. He spoke on behalf of D66, but also on behalf of the Party for Animals. He was wondering how it would go. Mr Nicolaï of the Animal Party nodded in agreement, so it will all have gone well. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Baay-Timmerman from the 50PLUS Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-3.u63	Mr. Chairman. I will respect the request for input per article of the constitution and therefore start with legislative proposal 35785 on the inclusion of a provision on the right to a fair trial. Mr. Chairman. The right to a fair trial is already enshrined in Article 6 of the ECHR and Article 47 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, and thus has an effect on Dutch law. Moreover, our national legislation and case law already contain all the elements of the right to a fair trial. Let me give you two random examples. Article 1 Code of Criminal Procedure oversees a fair trial. In addition, the introduction of the new Code of Criminal Procedure will include three new legal principles to be codified: the right to a fair trial within a reasonable period of time, the innocence presumption and the victim interest. In its 2014 ruling, the Council of State stated that the right to a fair trial, including the right to equal trial, applies equally within the national order and equally independently of Treaty provisions. What was confirmed by his ruling in 2022, number 557: if there is such a breach of the principles of a proper order of procedure or fundamental principles of law, it must be held that there has been no fair trial. 50PLUS therefore asks the Minister about the added constitutional provision. I'd like a response. I repeat the wise advice of the College President Van der Burg, in which the Vice-President of the Council of State, De Graaf, joined in an expert meeting here in the First Chamber on careful legislation: "Be careful with legislation. Instead of new legislation, first look at what is already there and only in exceptional cases introduce new legislation." In that context, can the Minister explain to my group what problem is solved by the introduction of the constitutional article the right to a fair trial, after all, which right already exists? Mr. Chairman. The new constitutional article is much more concise than Article 47 of the Charter. Is it not detrimental that this new article is far less clear about what the right to a fair trial means? On 30 March last, the Minister argued that "the proposed Constitutional Article complements the Treaty provisions and has a wider scope." What exactly does the Minister mean by supplementing treaty provisions? What is the Commission's view that Article 6 of the ECHR and Article 47 of the Charter are not complete? I'd like a clarification. Mr. Chairman. And then about the wider scope. This as a classical fundamental right to a fair trial gives citizens an individual right to exercise that right. In short, the government and the legislator must not keep the citizen away from the courts. What are the consequences of this proposed article? Can it be said, for example, that, after the introduction by the citizen, he cannot exercise his right to a fair trial, because the government demands too high registry rights before you can initiate proceedings? Is that what the Minister is talking about with regard to the wider scope of this article of the Constitution in relation to the existing Treaty provisions? I'd like a clear answer from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. 35785, including the provision on an elected electoral college for non-residents for the election of the First Chamber members. At present there is no possibility for the Dutch to vote for the Upper Chamber of the States General, the so-called non-residents, living abroad. The present legislative proposal will make this possible in the near future, so that the elections of the Members of the House of Representatives and the European Parliament will be aligned. They will soon be able to exercise their right to vote through an electoral college which will then be able to vote actively for the election of First Chamber members, together with the Provincial States and the electoral colleges in the Caribbean Netherlands. This proposal has already been discussed extensively at first reading, with 50PLUS indicating that it is in favour of this legislative proposal. The voting value shall be determined on the basis of the number of registered voters multiplied by a correction factor. So registering is an absolute condition to be able to vote through the electoral college. My group asks the Minister how she ensures that information is provided in such a way that the Dutch resident abroad is aware that the requirement to vote requires timely registration of the electoral college. Do these Dutch understand that they can only vote through the electoral college? Because it's a rather cumbersome road and it won't be clear to everyone right away. I would like a clear answer from the Minister on how the information is given and how the next First Chamber election will be prepared if this proposal is adopted. Mr. Chairman. 35786, the inclusion of a general provision which reads: "The Constitution guarantees fundamental rights and the rule of law'. What exactly does this broad-based addition mean? How does this addition relate, for example, to Article 22 (2) of the Constitution: "Promoting adequate housing is a matter of public concern"? This basic social right means that everyone has the right to housing, but I am not telling you anything new that this right exists only on paper. Young and old yearns for suitable living space, but it is not there and will not be there in the near future either. A motion of 50PLUS was adopted in December 2019 calling on the government to support local parties in drawing up the so-called residential care visions, so that flowing into the housing market could take place. But the implementation of these visions did not increase the availability of living space. The government is seriously failing in its duty of care for sufficient housing. Mr. Chairman. I read in the note following the report that the normative and interpretative function of this proposed general constitutional provision is directed not only at the constitution but also indirectly at the other posts and bodies which must also comply with the Constitution. Can the Minister indicate whether, with the proposed addition of the Constitution, the citizen has a enforceable fundamental right to housing? If not, what does that guarantee of fundamental rights actually mean? I would like a reflection from the Minister on this point, because fundamental rights which are not legally enforceable put the citizens on the wrong foot. The fact that this proposed article will be merely a normative strengthening of the Constitution escapes 99.9% of the Dutch population. Instead of clarity, it creates uncertainty for them. Mr. Chairman. Finally, on this proposal. What would the Minister's opinion be on the Van der Graaf motion concerning the inclusion of several important human rights in this provision if this motion had not been held? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. Then 35787, the expiry of the additional constitutional articles because they have been worked out. This bill was dismissed as a hammer piece in the First Chamber at first reading on 16 June 2020 and 50PLUS has no questions about this. Mr. Chairman. Then 35789, the review of the Constitutional Reform Procedure, Article 137 Constitution. Any constitutional change takes place at first and second reading, precisely because changes of any kind in the Constitution must be made with the utmost care. This proposal will ensure that this review procedure is carried out more quickly so that a constitutional review can be completed more quickly. Strategic sabotage as is still possible today because the government and/or the House of Representatives postpone and delay the treatment of a second reading, only because of the possibility to wait for a subsequent Second Chamber whose composition would be more favourable, my group finds it quite reprehensible. It must be about the substantive discussion on a constitutional proposal. This proposal means that the new House of Representatives and the Government must proceed with the second reading. If not, the constitutional proposal will automatically lapse. That's the stick behind the door. Much has already been said about the content of the term 'progressive'. In the note on the basis of the report, the Government states that it is convinced that if a proposal is examined directly at second reading on the day of the first meeting and both the Government and the House of Representatives take up this treatment with great vigour, timely and thorough legal treatment is possible in all cases, even in the event of the interim dissolution of the House of Representatives. My group has doubts about the latter. It is true that the Minister in the Lower House made a calculation in relation to 2002, when the cabinet fell after 87 days, arguing that in such a case a constitutional proposal can still be dealt with with with due care at second reading, but that is not the view of my group. In the event that the second reading by the new House of Representatives has become impossible in terms of time due to the fall of a cabinet, the constitutional proposal will automatically lapse, despite the speed of both the government and the House of Representatives. In such a case, could not some kind of hardness clause be applied that the second reading cannot be carried out purely by force majeure? Surely it would be very unsatisfactory to go through the whole constitutional review procedure again? How does the Minister view this? I'd like a reaction from her side. Mr. Chairman. Then proposal 35790, on the immunity of letter, telephone and telegraph secrecy. For my group, there is no doubt that this article is in need of modernisation. It is sensible and necessary to consider future forms of telecommunications that need constitutional protection. The fact that everyone is entitled to respect for their letter and telecommunications secrecy is becoming more and more topical, just because of all the technical innovations which may increase the infringement of this right. Mr. Chairman. The Minister states in the note following the report of the House of Representatives that this article has only a vertical effect, between government and citizen, and has no effect on citizens themselves, the so-called horizontal effect. For it states: "The protection in horizontal relations is already regulated by various legislation and also by Article 8 of the ECHR." Can the Minister make two points to 50PLUS? What is against giving this proposed article horizontal effect? What arguments does the Minister have to deny this effect? Why is this constitutional amendment explicitly referring to Dutch and international legislation, which seems to be sufficient for the protection of citizens among themselves, while a separate article should be included in the constitutional amendment on the right to a fair trial, which is also enshrined in treaties and Dutch law? In doing so, I refer to the reference made by me under 35784. My group does not understand that the constitutional changes to be dealt with today seem to be sufficient, one time, to guarantee the rights of citizens and another time not. I'd like an explanation. Finally, on this proposal. When, I ask the Minister, is the e-Privacy Regulation adopted as a replacement for the e-Privacy Directive? That would take place somewhere in 2022. Is it true that its entry into force takes two years? What does that mean in concrete terms for the transitional period? Mr President, this was my contribution in the first term. We look forward to the Minister's answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-3.u64	Thank you very much. The Chamber continues with Mr Doornhof's contribution. He is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-3.u65	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. There are six proposals to amend the Constitution on this item. I should like to comment on three of them on behalf of the CDA Group. We have agreed that we will continue with the chronology. Well, then, of course, I'd be happy to. It is about including the right to a fair trial in the Constitution, a separate electoral college for the election of our Chamber, and finally the general provision. Mr. Chairman. Before I go into that, I would like a wish of success to Mr Van den Berg, who is about to make his maiden speech. In general, I note that the CDA attaches great importance to the fact that something really happens with the work of state committees. Often very thorough work is delivered. It would be a shame if that work ended up in a desk drawer. Proposal one, the right to a fair trial, is a recommendation from the Thomasses State Commission. It was said in 2010 that we should include the right to a fair trial and access to justice in the Constitution. In 2012 the motion-Lokin-Sassen came. That was the follow-up. Now, in 2022, we are about to anchor the right to a fair trial in our Constitution. Mr. Chairman. The wording eventually opted for an option that was seen by a minority of the state committee. That option is that you explicitly include in the Constitution that this right also means that you are entitled to trial within a reasonable period of time. My group thinks it is smart that this has deviated from a majority of the state committee which felt that this was less necessary, and that, ultimately, Article 6 of the ECHR has been applied. Now it is not my intention to repeat the whole debate on the state of the rule of law, but if you are now talking about the right to trial within a reasonable period of time, it is of course a matter of concern if the Minister for Legal Protection recognises during the debate that the organisations he is dealing with, such as the Public Prosecutor and the judiciary, are struggling with the tight labour market. Of course, there are very good things in the government agreement on strengthening the judicial chain and on access to justice. There are also budgets allocated to this. But, of course, it is a question of course, and the effort must be directed towards it, whether it is possible to really free up and spend those budgets, so that you can actually spend that money. In this respect, the government is working hard on it, but it is crucial to talk about actually being able to secure a trial within a reasonable time. I go back to the actual draft, and that is the proposal one on incorporating that right into the Constitution. My group very much agrees with that. Then propose two. The Minister said that in the past the constitutionalist saw no reason to allow Dutch residents living abroad to influence the composition of this Chamber. You can change the Constitution, but of course you will find out to what extent the proposal to allow non-residents to have an influence on this composition relates to the parliamentary system we have. We are elected here by the people's representatives in the province. But, yes, to say that we are some sort of regional representatives here, goes too far, although you can't separate most of these senators from their home. I simply have to say that in 1922 it was said that we are also going to introduce the system of proportional representation for this Chamber. So not to choose this Chamber per province, but to add the votes of all the members of the States together in order to achieve a division of seats. In this context, my group agrees with the Minister that it would be somewhat unbalanced to say that the Dutch who live abroad may vote for the House of Representatives and for the European Parliament, but do not affect the composition of this Chamber. The fact that this relationship between Senator and province was broken in 1922 does not mean that it is true, and I repeat this for the umpteenth time, that my group generally feels that you should increase the regional component in the electoral system. In this context, I would like to refer once again to the legislative proposal with one vote more choice, which has been discussed before. This is based on the Civil Forum electoral system. Now I have to stop colleague and my former teacher Koole from correcting me here in the front row. I know that the Remkes State Commission has advised the Civil Forum electoral system to give more weight to the person's voice in a general sense, not just for geographical reasons. My group, through the chairman to Mr Koole, is particularly concerned with increasing the regional component. With regard to proposal two, I would like to make one final comment. At first reading, the CDA Group said that we would like to have a look at how things are now going with the voting value for that electoral college. Then we have seen that a report by Mr Otjes is now available. On this basis, the Minister said that we want to arrive at a method which, on the one hand, does justice to the Dutch abroad, but on the other hand also respects the character of the First Parliamentary Elections. So we will also vote in favour of proposal two. Proposal three, Mr. President. The Thamassen State Commission has said more. For example, Mr Dittrich has already referred to the recommendation to reconsider the ban on testing the Constitution. I understand that today or tomorrow we will receive a letter from the government on how to shape constitutional review. Furthermore, the State Commission also says that you should include a reference to the democratic rule of law and its aspects. This would increase the normality of the Constitution. But on that point, my group thinks that the justification is rather moderate. At first reading, Mrs Van Bijsterveld dealt with the legislative proposal on behalf of our group. She called the provision "too much an empty shell." Now I have already told myself in this Chamber that you must be careful not to introduce into the Constitution provisions that will have an unnecessary existence. My group much prefers that you guarantee the democratic rule of law and the rights enshrined in the Constitution with concrete actions and with additional legislation. In this respect, we are also looking forward to the work of the new State Commission which will analyse the functioning of the rule of law and make recommendations on how to improve the rule of law. I said at the beginning that my group attaches great importance to giving real follow-up to the work of state committees. Perhaps I should add in advance that this should apply in particular to the report of the State Rule of Law Committee. That was my first-term contribution, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-3.u66	I see there are two interruptions at the moment. First of all, Mr Ganzevoort van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-3.u67	It remains a bit of a cliffhanger, from Mr Doornhof. He says that such a general preamble might be somewhat vague and so on. But how does his group weigh up the fact that this proposal is there?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-3.u68	On the proposal as it stands, we in the group have said: what does this mean? And should you not be wary of the danger that you are going to leave the Constitution again after all, or perhaps I should leave it "again" with provisions that are superfluous? You and I have previously debated the proposal to include the corrective referendum in the Constitution. We both voted against it then. The argument that was quite shared at the time is that you actually include a dead sparrow in the Constitution. With that high threshold of outcome, there would actually be a provision in the Constitution that would have no right to exist, because the corrective referendum because of that high threshold of outcome would never lead to any destruction of legislation. In a way, you can compare this with that. You fill the Constitution with a provision of which you have to ask yourself what the real added value is. And that's not good. I do not think I need to convince you that we attach the same value to the democratic rule of law and fundamental rights, but we do not see the added value of including it in a general preamble to the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-3.u69	I would ask Mr Doornhof to reconsider that. I do not see that comparison with the correct referendum. The problem with this is that a potentially harmful element is added, namely the introduction of a referendum that cannot work and therefore disappoints. That's a harmful element. But here is a proposal for a preamble, namely: The Netherlands is a democratic rule of law. My question to Mr Doornhof is what it means if we voted against it. He says: in substance we agree with that. But what is the message of the CDA if that party decided to vote against this general preamble? Can Mr Doornhof reflect on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-3.u70	Doornhof, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-3.u71	First of all, I would like to say to Mr Ganzevoort that we are going to think again about this provision. But he actually says a bit to me: if you vote against, does that mean that you are also against the scope of the provision? That is what I hear in the question put by Mr Ganzevoort. Of course, a negative answer can never be the intention, and it is not. In fact, we attach particular importance to this Constitution and to provisions that make sense. It is not for nothing that I have gone into a little more detail about the right to a fair trial, because that is something that you, as a citizen, have to bear in mind. If it were to be constitutionally reviewed again, a judge could directly review our legislation here. But I do not entirely agree with you on a preamble which is also included in the same Constitution. Of course, there are differences with the proposal for the corrective referendum, but it will lead to disappointment. I do not know whether to go on with this, but it is about saying at the time: we are not going to include in the Constitution a rule, a provision that we are not going to use in practice, which is of no use to you at all. That is, of course, the agreement that I see with what we have now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-3.u72	Finally, Mr Ganzevoort.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-3.u73	Finally. Now Mr Doornhof worries me very much when he says that we are not going to use this rule. I really hope that we in this Chamber will continue to test whether the Netherlands functions as a democratic constitutional state, and I sincerely hope that the CDA Group, even if it does not think it necessary, will support this in terms of its real desire to reconsider this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-3.u74	Mr. Ganzevoort has nothing to worry about. What we are doing here is, of course, one of the most important functions that we have here as a Chamber. You could almost ask the question, I think that goes a little far, but I do it anyway because you are challenging me a little bit, or you are going to think about this provision immediately. That is, of course, the case. What we want is to take Article 1. Are we not already in breach of the right to equal treatment? You want to take up the right to a fair trial, but you do not want it to be said vaguely: we have a preamble and there could be the impression that we can carry out legality tests here too. That is simply not the case. So I'm a little careful. Mr President, please forgive me if I am somewhat relative to my own texts. It could lead to a wrong idea, but I would like to say that to Mr Ganzevoort once again, first of all, it is for us to do so to mark the fact that you only include provisions that make sense in a Constitution, which are not superfluous. We think so at the moment, but I take your cri de coeur to heart. We do not see at the moment that that would add anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-3.u75	Thank you. Then Mr Koole. For the sake of clarity, for anyone who watches and listens remotely: Mr Koole does not speak as a former teacher or as a teacher, but he speaks here on behalf of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-3.u76	That's right, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to Mr Doornhof for his speech and also to Mr Ganzevoort for saying that he would like to reconsider in the group whether they wish to support the general provision. I would like to ask Mr Doornhof what he thinks of that. After all, I can see a little bit in his speech that he is approaching the role of the Constitution in a rather narrow legal way. It is a Dutch tradition, but if something has been tried by the Thamassen Committee, it is not to add a preamble but a general provision, because a preamble was not to be found. Then you should also sum up history in a preamble, and then all kinds of values should be included, much more than they are now. They have said: we are not doing that; we are coming up with a general provision which is a framework for how you see the Constitution, but which is also a general provision externally. What do citizens read first when they catch the Constitution? The Netherlands is a democratic rule of law. That is us, that is the story of the Constitution. Should this aspect, more than merely whether it is legally enforceable, not be taken into account when assessing whether a general provision is added to the Constitution, especially in view of its normative effect, even outside the Chambers of Parliament to the general public?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-3.u77	I have, of course, read that report carefully in preparation for this debate. The Committee's view is that it is good to bear in mind that the normality of the Constitution is being increased. So how you turn it around, there is something in it that the rules of the Constitution are going to get more meaning by adding it. That statement is not substantiated. That is exactly why my predecessor rightly said 'this is far too much an empty shell', because that does not happen, which is the point of the committee. If you do not then come up with a more detailed explanation, then you have tried to do so, but that is not really the point I am raising here, then you have to conclude that you are putting up the Constitution with something that you actually say is superfluous.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-3.u78	It is indeed intended that this normality of the Constitution should be increased by adding a general provision, but that normality does not only refer to the Constitution itself, but also, above all, to how the Constitution is read outwards. If you take the Constitution, the general public, the citizens, if you ask what is in the Constitution... The American constitution starts with a beautiful preamble and the Dutch starts with "The Netherlands is a democratic rule of law." That is the framework within which we operate together in politics and in society. That is a normality that may be even more important from the outside than normality for the rest of the Constitution as we are discussing it here in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-3.u79	And your follow-up question?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-3.u80	Whether Mr Doornhof in his group also wants to consider external normality in addition to the internal normality of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-3.u81	Yes, but the question is, I would like to say to Mr Koole, whether that effect, as you are now putting forward and as some of it says in the report of the State Committee, is true. Shouldn't you ask whether it's much more of a symbolic thing we shouldn't have in this Constitution? I think we differ on that. If the report of the State Committee had said that it would actually contribute to that normality, the committee might have had the CDA group on its side right away, but at the moment that is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-3.u82	Last one, one more time.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-3.u83	Mr Doornhof uses it as an argument that it is only symbolic, but if there is anything important about a Constitution, besides the content itself, that is the symbolism of the Constitution. Then a general provision is so important because it is underlined. I would therefore like to ask once again if Mr Doornbos says that it is symbolic to want to appreciate this symbolism and to consider it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-3.u84	Mr. Doornhof, concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-3.u85	I find that a bit difficult, Mr President, because you would almost start asking how important it is to have a symbol value of the Constitution. I think we differ on that. I think it is much more important, as I said in my speech, to guarantee the democratic rule of law with concrete actions, as I said, with concrete legislation if necessary, whether or not building on the work of the new State Rule Commission. However, I do not think that it really contributes to increasing the functioning of our rule of law to include this general provision in the Constitution. In fact, I said in my speech that it might be worse, in general too, if you were to provide the Constitution with provisions that are actually superfluous.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-3.u86	Thank you. Then we will continue this debate with Mr Kox's contribution. He is speaking on behalf of the SP Group. I call Mr Kox.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-3.u87	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. According to Joop van den Berg, emeritus professor of parliamentary system and in a gray past also a member of this Chamber, it is rather inimitable to revise our Constitution, he grumbling in his section on parliament.com. According to Van den Berg, the amendments that are before us today, described by others as the biggest constitutional change since 1983, have no connection whatsoever. In the meantime, according to Van den Berg, there is also an incontrovertible stock that has to be discussed in second reading by the House of Representatives plus that there is still a stock of proposals somewhere in one of the Chambers without anyone knowing when they will be finished. Now Joop van den Berg doesn't seem like the sunshine in my house, but, I ask the Minister, does our emeritus perhaps have a point? Can she briefly tell us what is currently the case with constitutional proposals, even if it is just to reassure our former colleague? Mr. Chairman. It is certain that there is no coherent amendment to our supreme law now. The last time that happened was almost 40 years ago, in 1983, when, under the Den Uyl cabinet, part of the proposals of the Cals/Donner State Commission were transposed into ground legislation. As a result, the anti-discrimination ban was enshrined in the Constitution, the inviolability of the human body was enshrined, social fundamental rights were added to the classical fundamental rights that we already knew, migrants were given the right to vote in municipal elections and the imposition of the death penalty was constitutionally prohibited. The age to be elected in both chambers was reduced from 25 to 18 years. This Chamber was given a four-year term of office. Since then, we have also been allowed to elect our chairman. And sons no longer went for daughters at the throne. Nevertheless, it seems that our king has taken the risk of bringing three daughters into the world together with his wife. Much did not go on then either: no elected reformer, no district system, no direct election of this Chamber. Mr. Chairman. Since 1983 the Constitution has been amended only on an occasional basis. I refer to the deletion of the compulsory dissolution of the First Chamber at the time of the constitutional change, the inclusion of the Ombudsman, the replacement of sick and pregnant representatives of the people, the right to vote for the will, the position of Bonaire, Saba and Statia, the deletion of the crown appointment and the provision in Article 100 of the information provided by the States General when participating in peace missions. Questions of importance which, according to Van den Berg, were often given rather skimpy parliamentary treatment. Van den Berg also knows why, he says in his column: in general, members of the Second and First Chambers do not find the Constitution so interesting. Much of the tendency to put energy into it is not still there, I quote Van den Berg, and if the agenda is a little full of current events, then the handling of constitutional proposals will soon take months if not years. Here again, I ask the Minister whether our grumpy former colleague might have a point. Mr. Chairman. Indeed, the proposals we are discussing today were mostly put forward more than a decade ago by a state committee which had been asked by the government to come forward with proposals. After the committee put its proposals on the table at the request of one government, Balkenende IV, the next government, Rutte I, threw them into the wastebasket because that government depended on the support of a party that did not need them. After that, it took years for the proposals to be submitted to Parliament. That doesn't make you think that a contemporary Constitution for government and parliament is a priority. Is that how the Minister sees it? Fortunately, Van den Berg is milder for us than for our colleagues behind the station. He says: if there is any real interest, it comes from the First rather than from the Second Chamber. I am of course pleased to be the nestor of this senate. And indeed, two of the proposals that we are discussing today were taken out of the cabinet's wastebasket by this Chamber and entrusted to the government by means of motions for implementation: the constitutional finding that the Netherlands is a democratic rule of law and the provision that everyone is entitled to a fair trial. Certainly not a small achievement for a Chamber that lacks both the right of initiative and the right of amendment. The first motion bears the name of our then colleague Hans Engels, the second of our former colleague Pia Lokin-Sassen. My party co-hosted both motions. Of course, we are pleased that its scope is now included in the Constitution, if sufficient senators say yes to it. Can the Minister tell us whether she is considering a larger, more coherent modernisation of our Constitution? Or do we keep doing it piece by piece? And if so, why? Are we going to accept all the proposals made by the Remkes Committee, which we asked for, in a salami way? I don't think that's a good idea. Our Constitution actually deserves better. Mr. Chairman. So much for the introductory remarks. Let me now turn to the concrete proposals that are before us today, asking some questions and commenting. Today we are discussing six changes to our Constitution at second reading. Earlier this year, we agreed to two other changes: clarification of the anti-discrimination ban and the granting of involvement in the election of this Chamber to residents of our Caribbean part of the world. Still in the pipeline may be a second reading on the introduction of a corrective referendum, which my colleague Renske Leijten is now dealing with in the House of Representatives. I would also like to mention the first reading of two amendments concerning the role of this Chamber: the adaptation of the electoral procedure of the First Chamber and the replacement of a second reading in the First Chamber by a second reading in a united assembly. The last proposal is fine with us; we don't like the first one. But we're gonna talk about that. Mr. Chairman. Most of the proposals we are discussing today have their origins in the Thomasses State Commission. That committee was set up in 2009, but, as I said, almost all of its proposals disappeared in the wastebasket. If this Chamber still approves these proposals, it will be a well-deserved tribute for that committee and its chairman Willy Thomassen. Mr. Chairman. At first reading, my group agreed with all the proposals, with the exception of the proposal on an electoral college elected by non-residents for the election of the First Chamber. We thought it was artificial, and we still think it is. I'm not gonna say anything about that now. I do not do that about the legislative proposal that removes obsolete provisions from the Constitution. That's what it's gonna be like. Cleaned up. Mr. Chairman. A constitutional anchoring of the right to a fair trial is an important confirmation of a fundamental fundamental right which is also guaranteed by the Council of Europe's European Convention on Human Rights, but which is sometimes violated in some Member States.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-3.u88	It was very fast for a moment. Mr Kox said: I am not going to say anything about it anymore; we were at first reading against that electoral college and Dutch people abroad who then vote for the First Chamber. Can I still ask him to consider that? It is, of course, very important what the implementing law has to say about this. It may well be possible to vote in favour of the amendment of the Constitution and then to go into it very much in terms of substance when the implementing law concerns the Upper House. Could you comment on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-3.u89	That would be a possibility, but as I said, I would like to be consistent. I said at first reading that I think this is an artificial rule that we should not include in our Constitution. It was once chosen to choose the Lower House differently from the Upper House. You can debate whether or not that is right. I already referred to the Cals/Donner committee in which it was said: let us choose the First Chamber directly. Of course, the problem would have been solved. The people mentioned in this amendment would therefore have the right to vote. But to do it now through an electoral college that must be a kind of province but is not a province, that must have a voting value that is based on it and that is about, I would say, all the Dutch in the diaspora, does not fit the system we have. Although I like to go through with revolutionaryism occasionally, I want to be conservative when it comes to state law when it comes to needing it. On this point, I believe that the proposal made by the government is not sufficient and should therefore not be incorporated into the Constitution. But you can think differently, as Mr Dittrich does.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-3.u90	The latter particularly appeals to me: you can think differently about it. Consistency is, of course, good, but I would like to remind you that the Party for Animals, for example, voted against in the first instance, but nevertheless got convinced and voted in favour at second reading, especially because the implementing law is going to regulate exactly what the voting value is and that kind of thing. So consistency is good, but as a political party you can of course also say: I let myself be convinced and I choose what is best.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-3.u91	Certainly, Mr Dittrich. I thought why is Boris Dittrich speaking on behalf of the Party for Animals? But that was to make sure, above all, that the Animal Party has indeed changed its position. That's okay. It's okay. The Minister also indicated this in her reply. It's two legitimate reasonings: either we do it, or we do it like this. I think it's tricky. I do not think it is appropriate to say that we are going to do so, but then we need to look at it again. Again, I respect anyone who has a different opinion, but here I would like to keep mine intact.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-3.u92	Mr. Kox continues.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-3.u93	Mr. Chairman. I was telling you that the constitutional anchoring of the right to a fair trial is an important confirmation of a fundamental fundamental right that is also guaranteed by the Council of Europe's European Convention on Human Rights, but which is sometimes violated in some Member States. Unfortunately, people like Osman Kavala and Selahattin Demirtas can confirm that from their prison cell. That is why the addition to our own Constitution is important. This brings our group to the question of why, by way of derogation from the Thomasses Committee, it was not actually chosen to include some of the other fundamental rights of the ECHR in our Constitution. Think of the right to life, the right to family life and the ban on torture. This is still not mentioned in our Constitution. Can the Minister go into that again? Is it perhaps considering the possibility of strengthening the ECHR in order to strengthen the coherence between our Constitution and the European Constitution on a lasting basis? Mr. Chairman. The explicit definition of the right to a fair trial also creates obligations. In 1969, in Tilburg, the first law store in the Netherlands was founded under the motto "Jan with the hat has the right to the law." That was certainly not the case at the time. Fortunately, after that, many forms of social legal aid have come for people who are often at stake, but who do not have a big wallet to get their rights. Fortunately, we now have all kinds of law stores, legal offices, social lawyers and recently even our first House of Law, in Heerlen. But equal access to justice is still not guaranteed. Law stores often have a hard time and social lawyers have to struggle to make ends meet. On top of that, power is often still unevenly distributed: between employer and employee, between supplier and consumer, between company and neighborhood, between landlord and tenant, between Tax Service and taxpayer................................................................................................................................................................................... In fact, the right to a fair trial presupposes fair justice. What does the Minister think about the implementation in substantive laws and regulations of the law that is now constitutionally established? Mr. Chairman. The inclusion of the general provision that the Constitution guarantees fundamental rights and the democratic rule of law is a valuable strengthening of our Constitution and not an unnecessary luxury, especially now that, according to the Van Dam Committee, it has recently become apparent how seriously the rule of law in the Netherlands has been violated. An entire government resigned on that. This is certainly true at a time when the democratic rule of law is under increasing pressure around us. I am thinking of countries such as Poland and Hungary, which are trying to evade their commitment to the rule of law as guaranteed by the ECHR. In this context, I also mention the United Kingdom, where the government abandoned the full internal functioning of the ECHR last week. It was good to hear our king in Strasbourg in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe say at that very moment: 'Sometimes the temptation may arise to neglect the common standards and question the authority of the Court. Then it is important to be careful and keep an eye on the greater importance of stability and confidence within Europe." A Netherlands that openly attaches to the obligation to be and to remain a democratic rule of law contributes precisely to that stability and confidence. In this context, I would like to point out that the motion tabled at the time by Mr Engels was not supported by the CDA, but was argued by the PVV Group. So something has obviously changed if, according to the PVV Group in this House, what had to be incorporated into the Constitution in 2012, has now become a hypocritical provision. It could be in politics. An important improvement concerns the introduction of a trap to constitutional legislation; I am referring to the legislative proposal which states that the second reading of a constitutional change must be taken into account immediately after the election of a Lower House. If that does not happen, the axe falls and the proposal lapses. In my opinion, the failure to comply with the law on the corrective referendum, which was first approved by both Chambers but then left on the shelf in the Lower House for lack of political perseverance, is a textbook example of how not to do so. I am pleased that the matter has been dealt with there on the initiative of fellow party members of mine and I am curious whether the House of Representatives will dare to deal with the proposal. Does the Minister know what's going on with that? If we adopt this legislative proposal, our group believes that it would be more generally good if constitutional changes were to be guaranteed a more honourable and appropriate treatment at second reading. I'm sure I can see that. That's what I'm asking the Minister. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I come to the proposal to bring the Constitution from the time of the post office, the telephone and the telegraph to the time of the internet, Instagram, Facebook, Twitter, TikTok, Signal and WhatsApp, but also to the time of the large-scale listening of phones, with which the Dutch government is at the absolute top, and the hacking of data on computers and servers. "What do you mean, telecommunication secrecy?', Think about it. However, it is certainly necessary to add to this old protection of the secret of letters the new protection of telecommunications secrecy. The question is whether it will be enough. The wording proposed by the Thomassen State Commission more than ten years ago, at the time of the iPhone 4, was broader and therefore perhaps better than the indication now available in iPhone 12. Who knows if the definition of telecommunications will not be too concise in some time after all. The Thamassen Committee had found a solution to this. I'd like an assessment from the Minister on this point. Mr. Chairman. I look forward, of course, to the reaction of the government and, in particular, to Mr Van den Berg's maiden speech, which last week was held in Strasbourg in the Parliamentary Assembly, where he was able to practice his maiden speech, and today certainly goes for gold with his maiden speech over time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-3.u94	Thank you. We all look forward to that, but before that, we look forward to Mr Schalk's contribution. He speaks, as usual, on behalf of the SGP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-3.u95	Thank you, Mr President. If you want to change the Constitution, you have to have good papers. My idea would be that you should only get something out of it if that happens on a deliberate basis and if the consequences are clear. Shouldn't that also apply if we add something to the Constitution? It must be considered and there must be clarity about the consequences. I have doubts about this in some of the legislative proposals before us. Having said this, I try to consider all the legislative proposals. First 35784, the provision on the right to a fair trial. When it comes to justice, I often think of a beautiful biblical term: "to do justice and justice." In the explanation of the DS translation, the so-called comments, there is a very nice explanation. That is: "A way of speaking often used in the Holy Scriptures, meaning all that is good and right, understood in the first and second tables of the law, the ten commandments, belonging to private and public life." Who could be opposed to giving everyone a fair trial within a reasonable time and by an independent and impartial judge? One more question for the SGP: how do we guarantee access to legal aid? Are there any blockades, for example by cutting back on social lawyers or by increasing registry costs? And if so, how can the government lift these or other blockades? The second bill, 35785, elected by non-residents for the election of the First Chamber. This amendment of the constitution raises major questions for my group. One. Are you sure this is fair? Two. Who's in the best interest of it? The election of the First Chamber seems opaque, but is actually reasonably clear. Citizens of the Netherlands have the right to vote during the provincial elections. There every vote counts equally heavily within the province and then the members of the States cast their vote for the election of the Upper House. In addition, the voice of someone from a province with a high number of inhabitants has a greater weight for the composition of the Upper House. There is also room for the voices from the Caribbean. This is understandable given the fact that these are residents of the Netherlands. But now this bill. This allows non-residents to form an electoral college for the election of the First Chamber. In fact, we create a kind of extra province with its own weight. That's strange, it's improper and it raises questions about inequality. It is strange because the government considers the current situation to be unbalanced for the reason that non-residents may vote for the Lower House and the European Parliament, but not for the Upper Chamber. But I think that makes sense. The non-residents do have a passport from the Netherlands. Simply put: they are members of the population of the Netherlands even though they live in Casablanca, but they are not residents of a municipality in the Netherlands. So they can't vote for that and they're not residents of a province either. Which brings me to the second. It is wrong, because because they are not residents of a province, it is logical that they should not vote there either. Is it not also wrong to give a vote to those who do not participate in the elections to a province? The government is now proposing to create a separate electoral college for these non-residents. I call that a "foreign province" for convenience. That foreign province is as big as the whole world minus the Netherlands. This inevitably leads to inequality.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-3.u96	I understand the technical problems that are certainly raised in the implementation, but what I do not quite understand is the fundamental point that Mr Schalk makes that it is logical that they should not vote for the First Chamber because they are not part of a province. Does Mr Schalk agree with me that that only makes sense as long as you follow the logic that the First Chamber is only elected by the provinces? And if he agrees, isn't that a circular reasoning?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-3.u97	Mr Ganzevoort makes one very brief comment on the technical side of the matter and says: we will discuss it later. I would say that we should not only talk about this later, but also now, because I will soon be able to get there in my text on this subject. There are very serious implementation problems. These are mentioned, for example by the Council of State. We also see this in the bill that is already before us in the House of Representatives, while this law still has to be accepted here in this Chamber. I find that a very strange way of working. Then you could say: first let's make sure that we have figured out how to do that. The second part of Mr Ganzevoort's question is: is the problem solved if we no longer allow the provinces to choose? If we let the First Chamber no longer be elected by the provinces, but in another way, it may be that there is a logical reasoning to add that others, like for example in the Lower House elections, who are not resident in the Netherlands but have a Dutch passport, will vote along. But at the moment, it seems very strange to me that someone who immediately lives in Paris might have a heavier voice than someone who lives on Saba.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-3.u98	At first reading, the Minister promised us that the proportionality of the voting value should be optimised. That is also very important for us, but that is really part of the implementation for me. Mr Schalk is twisting my words a little bit. My point is not so much that I suggested that we stop choosing through the province, but that Mr Schalk's reasoning, namely that because you choose from the province, it is logical that someone who does not live in a province has no voice, is now part of the problem. His reasoning is only true as long as you want to hold that county link one-on-one. He doesn't do that either, because he says: I accept that it will be different for the Caribbean Netherlands. The point is whether there is a substantive reason that Dutch residents living abroad are excluded from the composition of the Upper House. I have not actually heard a substantive argument from Mr Schalk on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-3.u99	I have just said about the current situation on Saba, Bonaire and Sint-Eustatius: I can still understand that, because they are residents of the Netherlands. We have thought together that these are just Dutch municipalities, only they do not fall under a certain province. That is why there is a reasoning that can be explained in any case. But I wonder why someone from Iceland and someone from Venezuela should form an electoral college together to elect the First Chamber, while here we have the fairly clear system that the Provincial States elect the First Chamber. There is also a huge reasoning behind this. I assume that the President does not want us to go through with it, but at least think of the enormous differences of weight that exist. You only need one member of state in South Holland against five in Zeeland. Now we are going to create a province as big as the world that is not counted in the same way as the provinces in the Netherlands. In the provinces only the votes of the people who went to vote count. Next, a value is attached to it that is unequal in relation to the world.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-3.u100	Okay, Mr. Ganzevoort, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-3.u101	Yes, of course, but Mr Schalk is going to technology every time now. There's a lot of big questions there. I'll share that with him. But he ignores the essential point that this Chamber decides on all kinds of matters that concern our Dutch citizens who live abroad. As far as I am concerned, the fundamental question would be whether, in the enormous attention he gives to the system, the technique and I know it all, he does not overlook the fact that there are now citizens of our country living abroad who do not have a say in laws that concern them. That is my fundamental question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-3.u102	That's not entirely true. They do have a say in these laws, but only through the House of Representatives, because they do have the power to vote for them. If you're going to live somewhere else in the world, when you might have a huge connection with the municipality where you've lived and maybe find some of it, you can also vote on it. People who no longer live in that municipality are also Dutch. These Dutch people no longer live in a province, while the province elects the Upper House. You can't agree, but that's how I see the system as it is now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-3.u103	That's clear. Mr. Otten.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-3.u104	I am very upset by this reasoning. First of all, I would like to point out to Mr Schalk that non-Dutch citizens do have the right to vote in favour of the municipalities. The other way around, it does. I have to go along with Mr. Ganzevoort. I have lived abroad for a number of years myself. Around 1 million Dutch live abroad. That's seven to eight First Chamber seats, so grab him four SGP fractions. Those are voices that we can't just call off with: go vote for the Lower House; it doesn't matter for the Upper House. These people often follow Dutch politics to a large extent. That's very different from the old days. Of course, all that can be done in real time. So we are very much in favour of these people having a special electoral college. It concerns a lot of Dutch people, who often return to the Netherlands, have just left again, go to another country, etc.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-3.u105	And your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-3.u106	I wonder why you're so opposed to that. I think that is a bit of an outdated position.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-3.u107	It's okay. You can find everything I say out of date here. I have just explained that I believe that people living abroad can have influence, but through the Lower House elections. They can have influence there. They don't live in the gremia that vote for the First Chamber. The moment they don't live there, they don't have the right to vote. That's the route so far. My group believes that this is a more logical route than when you say: you live in the world I know a lot where; we are now inventing a new electoral college and a lot of people can sign up for it. In the end, only those who actually register will be counted. That doesn't happen in the county. You're gonna get some kind of inequality. Is that what we're supposed to want? Then there are a lot of people, according to Mr Otten, one million who could possibly influence seven seats in this Chamber, even though they do not live here at all. They chose to live somewhere else. That's fine. They will still have the right to vote for Europe and for the House of Representatives. I don't think it's necessary for the First Chamber. I also think that the way this is set up is becoming extremely complicated. You can also see that the enormous distance is very difficult. If you look at the electoral council figures and what happens on Bonaire, Saint-Eustatius and Saba, you don't believe your eyes. There were 30 weighted votes on Saba. At Saint-Eustatius there were five votes for the First Chamber, only for the CDA. With all due respect, but Secretary of State Knops intervened a few years ago, with the support of this Chamber and, by the way, of my group. I don't think a lot of people were excited about that party. Apparently it's so far away that in the end only five people vote, all on one party. I think that's partly because it's very complicated. On Saba and Sint-Eustatius there have been votes for D66, the Labour Party and GroenLinks, and none of the parties in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-3.u108	Mr Otten for a follow-up question. Shortly, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-3.u109	I can tell you from practice how that is, because I have spent at least two days of my life trying to arrange a guarantee fee in Saba and Saint-Eustatius, but there was no bank account. So how the CDA managed to get those votes is a mystery to me. I didn't manage to get a list in there.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-3.u110	And your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-3.u111	But that aside, Mr. Chairman. I note that Mr Schalk of the SGP says that Dutch people outside the Netherlands can talk about the democratic legitimacy of the House of Representatives and the European Parliament. We are also talking here about legislation on adaptations to the Netherlands and so on, legislation that also affects those people, but they should not talk about that in the Upper House. Why is the democratic legitimacy of the First Chamber different from that of the Second Chamber and the European Parliament? And if you don't vote, your vote doesn't count, but that's also the case in the other elections.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-3.u112	Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-3.u113	Once again, Mr Schalk, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-3.u114	I'm afraid I'm repeating myself, Mr. Chairman. Those Dutch have a Dutch passport. We have arranged in our legislation that they may also vote for the House of Representatives. It's as simple as that. And we have also regulated in our legislation that only Provincial States Members elect the First Chamber. We have made a special provision for the three islands, as has just been mentioned. That's the story. If you are referring to what Mr Otten is now arguing, and what Mr Ganzevoort has just said, then you are talking about a different system, a totally different way of choosing the First Chamber. That can be done, but that will also have to be carried through these chambers. Now it's just about choosing and we're making something very artificial. I would point out that my party is not in favour of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-3.u115	Finally, Mr Otten.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-3.u116	I note that Mr Schalk of the SGP wants to stick to a system from the years of the stagecoach, when everyone was still living in the Netherlands and not even 1 million people followed Dutch politics daily via the Internet in all corners of the world. Anyway, that's what we'll find out.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-3.u117	That is an observation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-3.u118	That's not a question, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-3.u119	Just a little while, though. I know the SGP as a party that always relies on principles. My question, following on from previous questions, is: if you look purely at the principle, the principle of the system, why should a Dutchman living far away, in some country, be allowed to vote for the Second Chamber and not, indirectly, for the First Chamber? While we have a two-chamber system that is co-legislator, in which both chambers with the government form the co-legislator, which makes laws that can also get those people in countries far away. What is the difference in principle? Then please do not answer with an appeal to how it has been arranged so far, what the system is, but the fundamental difference between someone from a faraway country who may vote for the Lower House but not for the Upper Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-3.u120	The answer I am going to give will undoubtedly not be quite what Mr Koole means, but perhaps I should put it that way. Because we settled that in our law. That is therefore a principled position, which we have laid down in our law how the House of Representatives is elected. This means that non-residents of the Netherlands who do have a Dutch passport may vote there and not here. We have that law to follow. I don't think what's ahead now is an improvement on that law, so I won't vote for it. Then Mr Koole says: yes, but what is the fundamental problem? Actually, I just said that. If there were another system whereby the First Chamber would be elected in the same way, it would be regulated by law. Then I don't see that problem anymore, but I do at the moment. I also think that this is causing enormous implementation problems. My point will also be that it is only useful and feasible for a few parties. But these are practical arguments, which are not relevant to Mr Koole's question at the time he asks me for a basic argument. The word "principal" is now spoken so strongly as if it were almost a Biblical principle. I think we are doing justice to the Dutch by having them vote on the way they are doing it at the moment; where they live, that's a choice for them. We offer them room for the Lower House but not for the Upper House.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-3.u121	I do not hear any basic explanation for the fact that people are allowed to vote for the First Chamber, but not for the Second Chamber. Mr Schalk refers to 'that's the way we have dealt with it'. That is not a fundamental argument. Then I ask: why did we arrange it like this? What then is the principle behind the current regime, which is so defended by Mr Schalk and which justifies the distinction between votes for the Second and the First Chambers for people abroad?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-3.u122	In any case, I think it is a matter of principle when you say that this is legal. That's how I understood it. I have also shown the other side that, at the time we had arranged otherwise, I do not see the difference in principle. So perhaps if I met Mr Koole a little more with that, that would be my answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-3.u123	Mr Koole, third and last time.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-3.u124	If it had already been arranged in the way proposed in the laws, then Mr Schalk had no objection in principle to equalising votes for the Second and First Chambers for people abroad. Does Mr Schalk agree with me on this?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-3.u125	Well, I don't know. I really should think about that before I give an answer in the wild. I am now being asked questions of principle. I have now assessed the legislative proposal according to the way in which it is now before us. Then I think it's a strange bill. I think it's an improper way to promote inequality. In the other case, this would always be part of the balancing of the SGP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-3.u126	Thank you. Then again, Mr Otten, in the rematch on the same point.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-3.u127	I hear Mr Schalk say that this is the way things are going, so we are not going to change that. Then what are we still doing here? Then we might as well stop, because we debate and debate legislative projects here every day. Abortion legislation was modernised last week after 40 years. You can also say: yes, we did and we are not going to change that. But we've modernised it. You see what has happened in the United States over the last few days.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-3.u128	And your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-3.u129	Surely it is an untenable point of view to say: we entered something in the stagecoach time, when the MPs were still in the Logement and traveled through the cart tracks to Drenthe, Groningen and Zeeland, and then let's leave it that way? That's not an argument, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-3.u130	You've brought that up before. I suggest that we do not repeat last week's debate. Mr Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-3.u131	I am not going to do the debate again last week, but I also think it is a little ridiculous to pretend that the First Chamber of the SGP is going back to the stage stage stage and so on. I have just given an orderly answer to the questions that have been asked. I also think that, because times have changed, we should not say here in this Chamber: would you like to sign by the cross? Each party has its own consideration. My group's assessment is that, as it stands, it is a strange legislative proposal. I think it is wrong and I think it will cause inequality. When I look at the future, at the implementation law, which is already there... I find it very strange that it is already there. Then I think to myself: I think we'll run into ourselves when it actually has to come to that implementing law. Because it's about legality, feasibility and enforcement in this Chamber. Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-3.u132	You're prosecuting.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-3.u133	I will continue my speech. I had arrived at the inequality. I said it would lead to inequality. If you go so far as to make up a separate foreign province, you also have to weigh in the same way who lives there. The voting value of the province of Drenthe is not determined by the number of residents who register to vote, but by the exact number of inhabitants. But in that so-called foreign province, we don't do that. There's a weighting on it. My group thinks it's a strange duck in the bite. If this Chamber were to decide on this at second reading, we would create inequality with this electoral college, wouldn't we? If we involve it more on the individual, is it true, I ask the Minister, that the voting value of someone living in Paris is actually greater than that of, for example, a Rotterdammer? Then there is another poignant inequality. With the new electoral college, this undefined group will gain a weight that is even heavier than the weight our own territories gain in the Caribbean. Isn't that asking for trouble? How's the minister looking at this? Moreover, there are many other problems in implementation, in particular with regard to lists and group formation, and to the formation of the electoral college. How does the government consider the opinion of the Election Council that these elections have a high degree of complexity, that the impact does not seem entirely practical and that good alternatives are not available? If we let that work on us, the question arises as to whether we really should go down this road. And an important question: who will ultimately benefit from this? I dare say that this is only feasible for large parties with sufficient administrative power and strong links with Dutch residents living abroad. I also see another problem. I also see a pattern in the accumulation of laws around the First Chamber elections. No list connections have been allowed since 2017. In 2018, the islands of Bonaire, Saba and Statia received their own electoral college. This proved to be only useful for the parties I have just mentioned. It is very striking that on the first two islands it consists of D66, GroenLinks and the Labour Party, and on the last only of the CDA. The third is the system of the largest averages, so that in a kind of repetition system the average number of votes per seat per seat always leads to a residual seat. This is only useful for large parties. The Forum for Democracy was a very large party here a few years ago. In 2019, the Forum for Democracy had eleven full seats and had twice been allocated a rest seat. So you have eleven seats and you end up getting thirteen through that system of biggest averages. Now there is this legislative amendment, which creates an electoral college that can become much more massive than we are now preoccupied with. Mr Otten has just helped me see through this, saying that it could grow to 1 million voters. How does the government appreciate this accumulation? Mr. Chairman. Apparently there is a hurry, because the implementing law is already under discussion by the House of Representatives, while not even the second reading has been passed. Why this haste, I ask the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-3.u134	I would like to point out to Mr Schalk of the SGP that the Forum for Democracy had thirteen seats, one of which was given to the SGP...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-3.u135	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-3.u136	... because Mr Roos voted for the SGP in South Holland, and nobody knew about it, which allowed you to obtain a second seat, but that aside.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-3.u137	And your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-3.u138	I would like to contradict Mr Schalk's statement that it is impossible for new parties to arrange foreign votes, because I have experienced that in person. I thought D66 was the largest party abroad in the Dutch Parliament elections in 2017, followed by Forum for Democracy, who was the first to participate. It is therefore possible, also because the technique has progressed much further than in 1848.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-3.u139	And your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-3.u140	So why do you say that's impossible? After all, it is quite possible. I'm getting a little bit of a feeling, though.That's why I'm walking to the microphone again. That's why Mr. Schalk is here preaching a little bit for his own parish.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-3.u141	First, the first point, namely that the SGP has been given a second seat by a vote of the Forum for Democracy. That is a very sensible choice from the Forum for Democracy, I think, but the question is, of course, whether I am to blame for it. I don't think so. I can imagine someone at the Forum for Democracy thinking: it is better to vote for the SGP. We have, of course, accepted this with thanks. Next is Mr Otten's second point: why do you stick around and stick to an old system? I have just said that we should not just put systems overboard if there is something new that may be worse. The second was that it seems like I'm preaching for my own parish. Well, I'll preach immediately for Mr Otten's parish, because he has as many seats in this Chamber as the SGP. I would like to point out that, in my humble opinion, it is easier for larger parties with a lot of administrative power to organise such complex processes abroad. That's what I'm saying. Of course, that is not an argument to say 'that's why it should not be', but it is a statement of fact. Can I put the electoral college behind me?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-3.u142	Oh, yeah. That you preach for a parish is in itself special, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-3.u143	Sure, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-3.u144	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-3.u145	Mr. Chairman. I have another bill on which I have some questions, namely the general provision in the Constitution. It concerns Room 35786, just before registration. The SGP has always argued that a preamble might be a passable route, but that a general provision in the Constitution which provides for the Constitution to guarantee fundamental rights is, of course, an open door whose added value is low. Nor do we put in other laws that it guarantees certain rights. Moreover, the Constitution has not only rights in it, but also obligations. This raises another interesting question. Apparently, we focus on rights, but should it include duties? Should you say that the Constitution guarantees certain obligations? In other words, this part of the general provision does not add anything to the obligation that already applies. We then note in that general provision that the Constitution would guarantee the democratic rule of law. This also seems problematic to me, because what exactly is the democratic rule of law? Are we all talking about the same thing, namely that this is the legal form that should receive the most support from us, even if it develops in other countries or continents? Nor is it clear what the legal consequences are or is the normative effect of such general, arbitrary provisions. These cannot be exhaustively developed, given the sober nature of the Constitution, which lays down, in particular, concrete, binding legal rules. This raises the question of whether such preambles do not fundamentally affect the nature of the Constitution as such. We now see from the history of law that such vague, general provisions raise the question of whether it is not important to add the fundamental human rights or the sovereignty of the Dutch people. And what about human dignity, the right to life, the separation of powers, the independence of the judiciary? Then why didn't you take all of them? How does the Minister respond to these points? The reasoning I have heard today is that it would be questionable if you were against this provision. Then it seems as if you have to defend and that if you are not in favour of an empty general provision in the Constitution, you would be an opponent of, for example, the democratic rule of law. Nor do I expect anyone in this Chamber to be against fundamental human rights, against the sovereignty of the Dutch people or against the independence of the judiciary. I would like to return to the words of my predecessor, Mr Holdijk, who argued that the main features of our rule of law are already derived from a combined set of constitutional provisions. He warned against a general provision as a kind of first-class provision preceding the other second-class provisions. Does the government now consider this to be a first-class provision or an interpretation framework for the rest of the Constitution? Mr President, then legislative proposal 35787, the expiry of additional constitutional articles that have been drafted. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats also considers it perfectly normal at the present time to extract constitutional articles from the Constitution. I couldn't think of any other question about this either. I will proceed quickly to the review of the Constitutional Reform Procedure, legislative proposal 35789. In itself, this is a sensible proposal. In concrete terms, the legislative proposal provides that the Lower House, which is elected after a constitutional amendment has been accepted at first reading, should consider it at second reading. If the Lower House does not do so, the constitutional proposal will automatically lapse. This will prevent a constitutional change from being framed too politically. A petitioner of a constitutional amendment can then wait indefinitely for the best moment for him or her. A simple example: if a law is currently passed in the Lower House by the coalition parties alone, then it is certainly likely that that law could end in the Upper Chamber. If the government were to say: wait until June 2023, perhaps the composition of the First Chamber would be different by then, then we would consider that politically incorrect. There's one more thing. Once a law has been passed in the Lower House, this stante pede is transferred to the Upper Chamber and the usual procedures are initiated. Perhaps this analogy here is useful. As soon as a constitutional change has been adopted in the First Chamber at first reading, the relevant legislative proposal will then be on the role of the House of Representatives, at least after that House of Representatives has been re-elected. My group sees this as a strengthening of the democratic process, in the sense that constitutional changes cannot be used as an arbitrary or opportunism. I had a few comments on that, but I will not do so because my time is up. The last change in the Constitution concerns letter, telephone and telegraph secrecy. For the sake of clarity, I would ask the Minister whether we should consider splitting up the secret of letters and telecommunications. I look forward to the Minister's response and wish my colleague Van den Berg, who will be giving his maiden speech, much strength and wisdom. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-3.u146	Thank you very much. Mr Van den Berg, who is going to make his maiden speech, has indeed the floor, as several Members have already pointed out. He says that everyone knows that, at least here; but I say it for those listening from a distance on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-3.u147	Mr. Chairman. It is a special privilege to speak here today. It is a privilege because of the venerable and interesting character of this house and it is special for me to stand here as a great-great-grandson of Mr. Johan Antoni Philipse, a member of this Chamber from 1849 to 1871, President of this Chamber from 1852 to 1870 and then Minister of State. Anyone who walked from the old part of this building to the plenary room today passed his portrait. Philipse became a member of this Chamber in the year after the amended Constitution of Thorbecke and Donker Curtius was adopted. He dealt here with the organic legislation resulting from that amended Constitution. Although he was known as conservative and anti-revolutionary "Green" of Princer, his brother-in-law............................................................................................................................................... Now it's not unusual for you to disagree within a family. If I had the chance to talk to my great-great-great-grandfather, we would differ diametrically on many fundamental points. For example, he was strongly opposed to cutting the direct link between the Council of State and the King, as would be governed by the 1861 Council of State Act, and did not vote in favour of abolishing the death penalty. Nevertheless, membership of this Chamber connects us, as does our motivation for reflection and a sharp debate for the sake of good legislation and to prevent evil. But above all, it is a privilege to be here today because of the subject we are discussing with this minister today: our Constitution. For a liberal and administrative expert, this is a dream theme to be able to address his maiden speech, especially since today we have dealt with the largest number of constitutional changes at once since the early 1980s. In my contribution, on the one hand, I would like to highlight the timeless importance for liberals of the Constitution and of fundamental rights. On the other hand, I will argue that the Constitution and constitutional ideas have rarely been as relevant from an administrative point of view as they are at present. Mr. Chairman. I shall begin with a few comments on the democratic rule of law and on how we relate in the Netherlands to the Constitution and the underlying constitutional ideas, which have recently been referred to as: our administrative culture. The fact that fundamental rights occupy a prominent place in the spirit of enlightenment and liberalism makes no sense here. They are based on two basic ideas, namely that there are inalienable rights, based on natural law, and that they apply to all citizens or all people. That first basic idea, that there is inalienable rights arising from natural law, dates from a long time before enlightenment. Thought in terms of natural law originates from Aristotle, and the English Magna Charta from 1215 already knew a form of inalienable rights. But innovative for thinkers from the era of enlightenment was that they felt that these fundamental rights should apply to all citizens or all people. At present, the struggle for the acquisition and preservation of these freedoms and rights remains a central driving force for liberals in any country. And last week, during our work as a delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, fellow parliamentarians and liberal activists, among others Ukraine, Russia and Belarus, once again made us aware that this struggle is raging in many places today. Also the astonishing developments last week in the United States, where, when it comes to women's right to self-determination, 50 years have been put back, we must be aware of the need to remain alert to constitutional rights. We should also be concerned about the British Government's plans to replace the Human Rights Act; it has just been mentioned. Last week, therefore, shows how fragile fundamental rights are, even in Western democracies with which we like to compare ourselves. Contemporary liberal thinkers such as the Swede Johan Norberg and the German Jan-Werner Müller also come up with fundamental rights and constitutional thinking when they consider the currently so relevant question of how an open society can offer its citizens so much security that they do not want a closed world. Both points to the importance of a strong political and social constitutional culture, which is a culture of rule of law. The function and extent of the presence of a culture of rule of law has my great interest as a researcher. With this culture of legal status, something interesting is going on in the Netherlands. On the one hand, various studies, including recent studies by the SCP, show that Dutch citizens embrace the rule of law as an important point of identification with Dutch citizenship. Asked about points through which citizens feel connected with each other and with the Netherlands, fundamental rights and civil liberties score remarkably high. Despite the apparently important role of the rule of law and civil liberties in identification with one another and with the Dutch citizenship, the Constitution in the Netherlands is referred to as a normative compass much less than in many other countries. Whether you look at social discussions, at the parliamentary debate or at policy pieces, the circle of people who can wake up at night for the Constitution is very small in the Netherlands. In many countries around us, the public administration has a big story or a big concept to fall back on. Think of the idea of the French state which would be one and indivisible, or the ultimate gift of parliamentary sovereignty as the British have. The Netherlands doesn't really know that. The Netherlands has a different kind of story: that of consensus, power distribution, pacification, broad majorities and a certain pragmatism and moving along with the social dynamics. The Dutch administrative culture as it is historically formed is characterized by the idea that there is no absolutism. Yes, the constitutional and legal framework determines the administrative freedom of movement, but there must also be room for flexibility in dealing with these frameworks in order to find a compromise, to achieve political agendas and to find room to tackle new societal challenges. Our attitude of flexibility within clear frameworks has brought us the necessary, but has not been able to fulfil the proud or binding function as in the great stories that other countries have. In this sense, the striking identification of Dutch people with the rule of law and civil freedom may not be surprising. In the unspoiled and globalised society, the need for connection is increasing and the democratic rule of law is becoming more and more visible as what can connect us. And where other forms of connection are usually inclusive for some, but only for others, the rule of law by definition offers something very substantial. It doesn't make a difference. Everyone counts. Mr. Chairman. Thus, as a liberal and an administrative expert, I come to the conclusion that the culture of law has much to offer us, just when political fragmentation and social discontent are as visible and palpable as they are today. In order to strengthen this culture, several things are needed, of which I would like to briefly mention two. One is to focus more on what I call "constitutional literacy" in the Netherlands. This means that we talk more and know more about what core concepts of the democratic rule of law all mean. Think of democracy, law, state, politics, bureaucracy, citizenship, ministerial responsibility, official loyalty and judicial independence. Too few Dutch people know what they mean on a concrete level and how they are interconnected. A second condition to make constitutional thinking more alive and relevant in society and in public administration is that our Constitution itself should consist of provisions that are clear, contemporary, sharp and complete in this respect. That's what today's about. I would therefore like to highlight the constitutional changes we are discussing today in the light of a revival of constitutional thinking in the Netherlands. Mr. Chairman. I shall now turn to the individual constitutional changes before us, which I will deal with in order to clarify this debate in the order of the agenda. First, the inclusion of a provision on the right to a fair trial in the Constitution. The right to a fair trial for an independent and impartial judge is fundamental to the democratic rule of law. It is remarkable that a provision on the right to a fair trial has so far been lacking in our Constitution or, more positively, fragmentedly addressed in our Constitution. The present awareness that this provision should be explicitly incorporated into the Constitution can, with some goodwill, be seen as a sign of a growing constitutional awareness in the Netherlands. The inclusion of this provision is therefore welcome. In material terms, this constitutional change will not make a big difference, because the right to a fair trial has long been practiced in all jurisdictions in the Netherlands and it can also be enforced in most jurisdictions under international treaties. However, as far as my group is concerned, there are two important considerations to strongly support the inclusion of this provision. The first is that we should not be dependent on international courts and treaties for our fundamental rights, but that we should like to have them properly regulated in our own national legal order. The second is that the inclusion of this provision broadens the right to a fair trial in relation to the current situation, as the right to a fair trial in international conventions does not apply to all administrative disputes and this constitutional amendment explicitly establishes the right to a fair trial in all jurisdictions. The second proposal concerns the non-residents, the electoral college for the election of the First Chamber. In my group's view, the thresholds for participation in the democratic process should be as low as possible for all Dutch citizens, even if they live abroad. It is already well arranged for the election of members of the Lower House and of the European Parliament; not for the election of the Upper Chamber. The Dutch who live abroad have no influence on the composition of this house. My group shares the government's view that this creates an imbalance in our system. This imbalance is repaired by setting up an electoral college chosen by non-residents. This is a proposal that my group will be happy to support. The third point concerns the inclusion of a general provision. The general provision before us fulfils two functions which weigh heavily on the VVD group. Firstly, to make it clear that the Netherlands is a democratic rule of law and, secondly, to appoint the guarantee function of the Constitution for our fundamental rights. It indicates the contours in which our Constitution must be read by everyone. Where the concepts of "fundamental rights" and "democratic rule of law" have so far been abstract concepts which can be distilled from the Constitution, these core principles are now firmly positioned. The general provision lays a firmer foundation under fundamental rights and the democratic rule of law, and so my group sees this provision as a firm confirmation that our society is built on freedom, justice and democracy. It reminds the Government and the States-General, together with the Constitutionalist, of their duty to guarantee these principles and gives the Constitution more normative force than before. We will therefore wholeheartedly support this proposal. However, I have two questions for the Minister. The Constitution belongs to the Netherlands or, rather, to the Dutch citizens. But precisely that element, present at the beginning of the constitutions of many other countries, is not mentioned in the general provision discussed here. Would it not have been logical if the general provision also contained the words 'we, the citizens of the Netherlands' or something similar to that? Such a wording would have given expression to the notion, which is important for liberals, that all government authorities ultimately find their legitimacy or should be found in the citizens who together form the political community. Does the Minister agree with us that such an initial formula of added value would have been? My second question on this point is the inclusion of this general provision. Many will also raise questions on the subject of constitutional review. The government agreement, to which the Minister gives effect, states that it will be examined how constitutional review could possibly be incorporated into the Dutch legal system. How should we see this general provision in the light of this intention? Does the Minister consider it desirable that this general provision should in future be used as a test standard for constitutional review? If it did not find this desirable, would it not have been more logical to include this provision in the form of a preamble rather than a general provision, since a preamble is not legally binding and a general provision is? That brings me to the fourth proposal of the six, the expiry of the additional constitutional articles that have been drafted. I can be brief about that. The Constitution gains the power of expression when it does not contain unnecessary ballast. This proposal removes the Constitution of elaborated articles, which my group is naturally in favour of. The fifth proposal is the review of the constitutional review procedure. If the Constitution is to have powers of expression and to give the Constitution a stronger place in public administration and society, the content and wording of the Constitution must be as clear as possible. In this respect, Article 137 raises a problem because it does not clearly specify which Second Chamber decides on a proposal for constitutional revision at second reading. The VVD Group supports the clarification that the second reading of a constitutional amendment must have been completed by the Lower House, which was elected at first reading after acceptance of the proposal. It also concerns the expiry of the constitutional proposal automatically if the Chamber does not conclude that second reading before the subsequent elections. But I would like to ask the Minister a question about that. How does she look at the situation in which so soon after the installation of a Lower House a new Lower House elections are held that it cannot reasonably be expected that the examination of this constitutional change can be completed at second reading? According to the proposal, the constitutional proposal will automatically lapse. The Minister also had an exchange of views on this in the debate with colleagues in the House of Representatives or, as is said here, on the other side of the station, even behind the station. However, the end of that discussion was that the Minister indicated that she was confident that the Chamber and Cabinet would be able to deal fully with a constitutional change at second reading, no matter how short the House of Representatives sits. That seems to me to be an unsatisfactory end to the discussion if the purpose of this amendment is to remove the lack of clarity and loose ends in the Constitution. I would like to ask the Minister what her thoughts are to find a solution to the situation in which a Lower House is too short to be reasonably dealt with in a second reading amendment of the constitution. I come to the last proposal, the change in the Constitution of the provision on the immunity of letter, telephone and telegraph secrecy. If the Constitution is to have powers of expression and if we want to give it a stronger place in public administration and society, then the content of the Constitution must also be understandable and consistent with this time. In this respect, Article 13 raises a problem which has been the subject of discussion since the 1990s on how to deal with it adequately. The VVD Group supports the technology-independent wording proposed in this amendment, as it also protects the secrecy of future forms of communication. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats also supports the possibility of restricting this right in special cases where national security is at stake. Of course, the guarantees provided by law must be strictly applied. Mr. Chairman. Now that I have dealt with the individual constitutional changes before us, let me briefly outline how the VVD Group views the package of these six amendments. What are these six amendments doing with our Constitution? Based on the voting procedure in the Lower House and in this First Chamber at first reading, you would say that these are not major, politically splitting issues, although I am not so sure on all points after the input of some of them this morning. Nevertheless, all these changes are of great importance to my group, because they change the Constitution in a total of five different ways. They explicate, they clarify, they modernise and they repair our constitution and they clean her up. That doesn't make the constitution perfect. There are several other discussions on the Constitution that we will be happy to discuss again with each other and with the Minister. However, the amendments now before us contribute to a Constitution that is better in order. A Constitution that is better in order works better for citizens and better for the government itself. Mr. Chairman. I would like to conclude with a few comments about the First Chamber and its role in the larger democratic system. This house has collective public power, which is borrowed from him through the Constitution. As far as I am concerned, it follows that the Upper House as a whole should be one of the most important guardians of the Constitution. Are we gonna fill it in in every way? In the first months as a member of this House, I have found that this Chamber operates significantly more politically than described in the textbooks and perhaps in previous periods. Everyone will have their own idea about the causes of this, but I believe that consensus should be established on this subject, that too much political and too policy-oriented a role for the First Chamber is not desirable. The First Chamber derives its added value in our order from the extent to which it performs its core task well. The more we focus on checking the quality of legislation on legality, feasibility and enforcement, the better that is for the institution of First Chamber and for the interplay between institutions within the system. I am committed to this during my period. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-3.u148	Thank you. Thank you very much for your contribution. I think I speak on behalf of everyone when I say that we have listened to your maiden speech with more than ordinary interest. You indicated at the beginning of your speech that your great-great-great-grandfather played an important role here in this house. You would have liked to have had a discussion with him, but I suspect, listening to you, that he too would have liked to have taken the opportunity to talk to you about what you have put forward. Anyway, it's clear that we're dealing here with someone we could characterize as "boss over boss." Because who is it that happens that within a week he is allowed two maiden speeches: a last week in the Council of Europe Mr Kox already referred to it and one here in this house today. That's very special. In this respect, I do not think it has been given to many people to make their first contribution within a week in two different bodies. We've all been able to determine that it was thorough. But that's not a coincidence. When I look at your resume and what you have done over the past few years, one thing comes to mind, namely that you have earned more than your spurs as an administrative officer. You graduated in 2011, if I remember correctly, in Utrecht. After that, you were affiliated with the universities of Princeton, Tallinn and Leiden. After that, in 2017 and then I get a little closer to my own house, you became connected to the Campus Fryslân of the University of Groningen in Leeuwarden, Ljouwert, which, by the way, gave rise to a number of Frisian media to welcome you as a new Fries MP. Of course, that was a reason for me to ask the question in the corridors: what about, where do you live and why do we not know each other enough? At that time, at least in my direction, you made clear where you live and what you do in Frisian. You are a member of the University of Groningen as a professor of public administration and as a special professor of local and global government. Since November 2021, you have also been a professor at Leiden University, where you will focus on the topic of "transitions in the public sector," a subject that is regularly reviewed here as well. Until you joined this Chamber, you were also a member of the Public Administration Council. That combination was no longer obvious, as we all know. But your accession I haven't said it yet. It wasn't just an accession on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, because you have been active in the VVD for a long time. In particular, you were also associated with the scientific institute of the VVD. What you have done over the past few decades and what you have told us is undoubtedly a consequence of that. I have already indicated that we have all listened with interest. We will also take your future contributions to us with great interest. Before that, I would like to congratulate you on behalf of the Chamber on your maiden speech. I'll do that after I've suspended the meeting. I would ask you to take the rostrum so that I can congratulate you there on behalf of the Chamber. I would like to ask the chairman of the VVD to join us on behalf of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-3.u149	I would ask Members to keep the congratulations until the suspension after the first deadline. There are a few more speakers. In order for the process to proceed in an orderly manner, also looking at the clock, I would therefore ask you to pass on the congratulations only in that suspension. We shall continue the debate with the following speaker: Mr Koole of the Labour Party Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-3.u150	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to congratulate Mr Van den Berg on his fine maiden speech. He probably could not have wished for a better time, because we are not talking about ordinary legislative proposals here today, but about constitutional proposals, and then six at a time. The importance of the Constitution for the First Chamber is beautifully depicted by the porcelain sheets of the Constitution, made by Esther Kokmeijer and displayed in the showcases in the hall in front of this plenary room. This reminds Mr van den Berg and all of us of the importance of the Constitution every week. Mr. Chairman. Before I make any comments on the individual constitutional proposals, I would like to make a few general comments. The first concerns the fact that we are discussing six proposals for amendments today. Isn't there a problem there? Although the constitutional proposals now being dealt with at the same time, apart from each other, do not refer to a somewhat curious, if not sloppy, way of dealing with our Constitution, I ask the government. Mr Kox also spoke about it, quoting another Mr Van den Berg. Wouldn't a more comprehensive approach have been preferable and will the government still do so in the case of constitutional proposals that are coming? For example, the Council of State, in its recently published opinion of 16 June, calls for a more comprehensive examination of proposals to amend the Constitution when it comes to mutually interacting constitutional changes, which are more or less at the same time under discussion, to be welcomed. In the example of the Council of State it concerns several proposals that touch on the position of the First Chamber within the two-chamber system. In addition to the right to return, the Council of State writes about the proposal to deal with the second reading of constitutional reforms in a United Assembly, the proposed adaptation of the procedure for the election of the First Chamber, and the proposal to grant the right to vote for the First Chamber to voters of Dutch nationality outside the Netherlands. If the government is prepared to deal with future constitutional changes in conjunction with each other, I ask the government, for example, in the form of an integrated statement of consistency which is added to the various explanatory statements. A second general remark also concerns the future of possible constitutional changes. The government is currently considering whether to submit a proposal on judicial review of the Constitution. The views of the Supreme Court and the Council of State are now known. It could mean deleting Article 120 of the Constitution. But our Constitution is not written at all for possible ex post review by a judge. My question to the government is therefore: do the wordings in the Constitution lend themselves to judicial review? If the government were to propose the deletion of Article 120 of the Constitution, would it not also have to look at the precise wording of the Constitution, in particular in the first chapter on fundamental rights and, in particular, on fundamental social rights? And is that not also true if the proposal on the general provision were to be included? Finally, a final general comment before I come to the specific constitutional proposals. Our Constitution cannot be said to be a public property right now. Next year it will be 175 years since Thorbecke made his mark on a new version of the Constitution. It is not, therefore, a '75 year Constitution', but it is the new version of the Constitution drawn up by Thorbecke in 1848. Although he wanted to make the Constitution a national force, the Constitution became mainly a text for constitutional scholars. Actually, it still is. A vibrant and readable preamble is missing, even though we may soon be given a general provision which will be inserted before Article 1. Does the government agree with the members of the PvdA Group that the Constitution should become more common among the general public? This does not necessarily mean a call for constitutional spatriotism, as advocated in Germany by Habermas, but rather the promotion of knowledge of the values and standards contained in the Constitution, which will enhance the coherence of the Constitution. In other words, what is the government doing or does it intend to do to promote the knowledge of the Constitution in a wider context? Because, as I say in his book on the Constitution, with state law scholar Voermans: "If the ideas, principles, norms and values of a constitutional order are to be able to do their job, then the story will have to live in the minds and hearts of those who belong to that group. This means that it has to be told time and time again, endlessly repeated and passed on, by all means available: image, sound, imaginary performances. Until it's held, for where and normal. Until it internalizes." Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the individual constitutional proposals before me today. First, proposal 35784 on the right to a fair trial within a reasonable time for an independent and impartial judge in a new Article 17 (1) Constitution. That right should be a natural part of the rule of law and goes beyond Article 6 of the ECHR, which is limited to civil and criminal matters. It is the result of the 2010 Constitutional Commission of the States, the Thamassen Commission, and the 2012 Lokin-Sassen motion, which I co-signed at the time and which was adopted by this Chamber. So you can see how long it can go before an idea from a state committee is finally realized. I am assuming that this bill will achieve the required two-thirds majority. It is an important proposal, because it also incorporates the independence and impartiality of the courts for the first time in so many words into the Constitution. So far they have been understood in the appointment for the life of the highest judges. Should the government not also be explicitly included in Article 117 of the Constitution, in the constitutional article on the members of the judiciary, that the members of the judiciary should be independent and impartial, I ask her. It has already been said about the second proposal, 35785, on an electoral college for non-residents in elections to the First Chamber. The voting value of members of the electoral college is determined by the Election Act, but the government has already made it clear in an explanatory statement that a voting value is likely to be chosen on the basis of the number of votes actually cast and not on the basis of the number of registered voters or the number of persons registered in the registration of non-residents, nor on the basis of the size of the entire world population. Of course, the latter wasn't very obvious either. The choice between the alternatives can be justified by my group, but we must of course wait for the impact in the Kieswet, even though that choice might differ from the system used at the electoral college for the Dutch inhabitants of the Caribbean Netherlands. Mr. Chairman. The third proposal, 35786, on the general provision, along with the proposal on a fair trial, is based on a motion adopted by this Chamber, namely the 2012 English motion, including my signature. You understand that I am pleased that we can discuss this today. This motion was again the follow-up to an opinion of the Constitutional Commission. That committee had included the following text proposal for a general provision in its final report. I quote: '1. The Netherlands is a democratic rule of law; 2. Public authorities shall respect and ensure human dignity, fundamental rights and fundamental principles of law; 3. Public authority shall be exercised only under the Constitution or the law." However, in the present proposal, the general provision reads: "The Constitution guarantees fundamental rights and the democratic rule of law." Can the government explain again why this wording was chosen and not for that of the State Commission? Among other things, the text proposed by the State Commission presents fundamental rights as an aspect of the democratic rule of law. This is not the case in the text of the bill. There, fundamental rights and the democratic rule of law have been presented side by side, as independent concepts. Can the government imagine a democratic rule of law in which fundamental rights are not guaranteed? If this is not the case, why have these fundamental rights been incorporated as an independent concept alongside the concept of the democratic rule of law? I would also like to ask the government to explain the concept of the democratic rule of law itself. For the first time, this is explicitly stated in the Constitution, and that is good, because until now it is not directly clear from the Constitution that the Netherlands is and should be a democratic constitutional state. But what does "democratic" mean here, I ask the government. Based on the idea of popular sovereignty? The explanatory memorandum to the first reading of the bill states: 'democracy puts power in the hands of the people'. The famous preamble to the American Constitution begins with: "We, the People of the United States." We have just heard the translation of Mr Van den Berg, but applied to the Netherlands. The American example is clearly an example of popular sovereignty. Does the general provision also mean, I ask the government, that popular sovereignty is also at the root of the Dutch state system? Mr. Chairman. On the fourth technical proposal, 35787, I have no comments. On the fifth, on the review of the Constitutional review procedure, 35789, I have a short question. The Second Chamber elected after the publication of the Declaration Act must review the Constitutional Reform proposal at second reading. If it does not do so within the term of office, the constitutional proposal will automatically lapse; the necessary questions have already been asked. It can no longer remain on the shelf, waiting just as long until a two-thirds majority is ahead or because the original initiator is no longer a Member of Parliament and no other Member of Parliament feels responsible for the draft Constitutional Initiative Act. Hopefully, this proposal in this Chamber can count on a two-thirds majority. That brings me to my question. How many amendments to the constitution at second reading should be decided upon by the present House of Representatives after the adoption of this amendment of the constitution, do they not want to lapse automatically? Mr. Chairman. Finally, the final proposal, the proposal on the inviolability of the secret letter, 35790. It is good that a technical independent definition has now been incorporated into the Constitution. Instead of the immunity of letter, telephone and telegraph secrecy, we now have 'the right to respect for letter and telecommunications secrecy'. I have been chewing on it for a while, because the word 'telecommunications secret' does not seem very modern. Does a social media user understand that messages are included? How independent is this description? I can't see that, but I couldn't think of a better term. More importantly, what this Constitutional Bill means for the government's commitment to protecting citizens' privacy from the great power of big tech. Can the government let that light shine again? I look forward to answering our questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-3.u151	So are we. But before that, there is another interruption by Mr Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-3.u152	Mr Koole went so quickly with the legislative proposals, but I shall go back to the general provision. I understand he's very happy that he's finally there. He did ask very good, sharp and critical questions in the formulation. Did I get that correctly? Is it a good thing that it comes in, but that the wording is not quite as Mr Koole would like it to be?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-3.u153	I think it's very good that it's coming in. What I hope this general provision will do is to discuss the democratic rule of law, whether within or outside Parliament, and I have already said something about this in an intervention, so that this general provision encourages it. With my questions to the government, I aim to stimulate, promote this discussion, by asking the government: what exactly do we mean by democracy, what do fundamental rights mean, if you define them separately, in addition to the democratic rule of law? It is therefore my intention to stimulate the debate and to clarify it once more. I would also like to hear the government's view on this. For this reason alone, we consider it very important to include this general provision.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-3.u154	Is it not true that Mr Koole is actually saying that we have an interesting piece of discussion here, when you would ask the Constitution to include clear, unexplained elements, as Mr Van den Berg has just said beautifully? At least, in my opinion, I have heard him speak in such a way that the Constitution is clear, clear...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-3.u155	The question is clear. Mr. Koole.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-3.u156	I have just said of the general provision in my speech: that is a framework in which you look at the Constitution. This applies both in the debate within Parliament and, above all, to the outside world, to the citizens of society. With that provision, you're trying to stimulate that debate. There is still a debate on how to interpret fundamental rights in society. You can never fully guarantee, 100%, that a provision in the Constitution will remain without discussion. That will therefore also apply to that general provision. I want to encourage this discussion because it is very important that people in the country are aware of what the Dutch Constitution is. I have just said that, at least in the Netherlands, this is often a kind of legal piece for specialists, beautiful, but less appealing to the large population. With such a debate on a general provision, you can at least bring it closer, including towards the wider society.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-3.u157	I have just heard Mr Koole of the PvdA clearly argue for the importance of popular sovereignty in the context of that general provision. What then remains of the importance of popular sovereignty now that it is completely undermined by the power of the European Union with provisions which overrule our own legislation, but also, for example, a CETA Treaty that is imminent, which the PvdA is now possibly going to support, which will also overrule our nation's sovereignty? What is the added value of this popular sovereignty in the context of this general provision?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-3.u158	I have used the term 'people's sovereignty' because it is referred to in almost all the constitutions around us, and also in the American ones I mentioned. The government derives its authority from the people to whom the law also applies. We can only ask the people to obey the laws if they have somehow had a voice in the making of those laws. The American Declaration of Independence therefore refers to 'consent'. It's called folk sovereignty. That's what libraries are full of. My question to the Minister is whether this concept of 'people's sovereignty' is now included in the concept of 'democratic rule of law'. But popular sovereignty is not the only basis of a democratic rule of law, that is also the rule of law. That democracy, based on popular sovereignty, is, in my view, always bound by the limits set by the democratic rule of law as the rule of law. And so it means that there must always be a balance between them. That balance is sometimes shaky. I even published a book last year on the shaky balance in the democratic rule of law. That's what that's about. But that does not mean that you would no longer be democratic if you all decided democratically to transfer certain things to the European Union, for example. We have had a debate on Europe here, and I believe, Mr Faber of your party, that sovereignty is sometimes transferred, but that means that you sometimes get a lot of influence back. If you did not join the European Union, the big countries in Europe would determine it among themselves and you could grow up through participation in the European Union. It is a debate that we have had there, and I do not want to repeat it in full detail, but that is what I am in, and that is what really fits together.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-3.u159	We are not going to repeat that debate. Mr Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-3.u160	No, Mr President, but we have to note that if we transfer a great deal of our sovereignty and remove a lot of decision-making power from the population, then that popular sovereignty will also be undermined within the framework of such a general provision. If you want to interpret it in this way, we actually have a situation in which we are going to say before the stage: there is a general provision and there is popular sovereignty, while it is being given to Brussels in the mean time. This will allow us to rule over our people from Brussels, where it does not have a direct voice and where we have looked into it. My question is, in fact, once again what is the added value of the concept of popular sovereignty if this general provision is to be applied.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-3.u161	Also considering the time, I'd like short interruptions and short reactions. Mr. Koole.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-3.u162	I just said the necessary thing about that. We're not giving it all away. If we already transfer people's sovereignty, it will be done in a democratic way, in accordance with the rules of our own democratic system. You can disagree on how far you should go in that. Those differences also exist here in this Chamber. That does not mean that democracy has been undermined.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-3.u163	Mr Koole asked the Minister, kind as he always is, whether this means that from now on we are going to adhere to the principle of popular sovereignty in the Netherlands. Of course, he also knows that this is a far-reaching question, because unlike a lot of other countries, the Netherlands has never gone this far. We still have the King who rules here by the grace of God. In daily life we can do very well with that, but Mr Koole also knows that this is not easy to answer by the Minister. So what is his own answer to the question he is now putting to the government? Are we based on popular sovereignty? If so, where does he get that from? This can hardly be derived from the general provision that is now being added to the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-3.u164	My view is that democracy in the Netherlands should be based on the idea of popular sovereignty. That's obvious. My question is whether the Minister agrees. I see in all the countries around us that there is a reference to this: in Germany, France, the United States and many more countries. Why wouldn't that be the case in the Netherlands? If it is not based on popular sovereignty, what is the legitimacy of democracy based on? That's my question. It is clear to me that it must be based on the idea of popular sovereignty, but it is not only decisive. It must always take place within the framework of the rule of law.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-3.u165	Thank you. Mr. Kox again.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-3.u166	Mr Koole referred to some of the books he recently wrote. I always read them with great interest. So he also knows that until now the books have written that the Netherlands, unlike Germany, France, the United States and our southern neighbours, has, on the contrary, never confessed to the principle of popular sovereignty. The fact that he thinks this should be the case is something other than whether he thinks this is the case in the Netherlands. You ask the Minister again to answer that question. On what basis does Mr Koole base the inclusion of this general provision on the anchoring of popular sovereignty in the Dutch Constitution? I would say that would be the eye-opener of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-3.u167	I hope the Minister answers that question. I have just tried to point out that democracy cannot be legitimised in the present time other than by the direct or indirect consent of the people. Public decisions must therefore be based on the direct or indirect consent of the population. You can shape that in all kinds of ways, and democracies are also different. That's what democracy means. In the general provision we speak of a democratic rule of law. I ask what the word 'democratic' means in this case. My opinion on this is clear. I'm asking the Minister. I also know that this is true in other countries and not yet in the Netherlands. I think that's a historical residue from the eighteenth or nineteenth century. That has to do with the political struggle at the time. I think it is now so far behind us that you could easily say, broadly shared, that democracy in the Netherlands is based, as in other countries, on direct or indirect consent from the people.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-3.u168	Thank you. This was Mr Koole's contribution. We will continue with Mr Talsma's contribution. He speaks names the Christian Union. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that Mr Talsma has signed up for 15 minutes. Mr Van der Linden, who is still speaking, has signed up for five minutes. Mr Otten has also signed up for five minutes. I would like to propose that everything be done to have completed the first term of the Chamber by the time the lunch break begins. That is a call to all of you to observe some limitation with the interruptions. Mr. Talsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-3.u169	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. First of all, time or no time, heartfelt congratulations to colleague Van den Berg with his impressive maiden speech. I think that our former colleague Philipse would have been proudly seated on the rostrum if he had heard his descendant speak these words. Should Mr Van den Berg at some point become aware that it might be good to return to the political trail of the fathers, I am sure that you will be welcome on behalf of my group. And if that awareness doesn't come in or not enough, then I look forward to working together. Mr. Chairman. Only a week ago, we were debating a major subject such as the state of the rule of law here in this Chamber. Today, at second reading, we are dealing with no less than six proposals for amending the Constitution, certainly not an everyday issue. But even before the fundamental character and the respectability of our Constitution got to me too much, there were the relativistic words of our former colleague De Savornin Lohman, a fellow party member of the old Philipse for a while and at least for a while Roommate of the old Philipse. Those words of Lohman are in his book Our Constitution from over 120 years ago. I quote: 'The people as a whole do not care much about the constitution; this is a guideline for the legislator rather than for the people'. ... "If we really want to grow respect," Lohman refers to the Constitution "then one does not fall down in worship of the Constitution as such, but rather, by timely constitutional revision, brings the Constitution and all laws into line with the ongoing development of law." Mr. Chairman. With this sober encouragement from a political angle familiar to my group, I am happy to deal with the various amendments. I'll start with 35784 on the fair trial. It has taken more than ten years, but the implementation of this Chamber's motion to establish the right to a fair trial in the Constitution is now almost a fact as far as we are concerned. My group supports the chosen wording of the new provision and considers it to be an important addition to the existing fundamental right that no one can be held against his or her will from the court which grants him or her the law, Article 17 of the Constitution. The core values "fair," "independent" and "unpartial" are so essential to a process that they deserve this place in the Constitution. Treatment within a reasonable period of time had already been arranged for those deprived of freedom, Article 15 (3). But the proposed provision rightly makes it clear that this applies to everyone. On repeated occasions, the cabinet indicated that it had opted for a sober wording. This choice can be justified, but as a result of this choice, the right to public treatment, the right to defence and the right of presence have not been extended, as compared to, for example, Article 6 of the ECHR and Article 47 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the EU. Can the Minister confirm that the choice of a sober wording does not in any way lead to a legal austerity? And is the Minister prepared, together with her colleagues in the cabinet, to take action to prevent, in particular in high security-risk criminal cases, the right of presence being put under pressure due to limited monitoring and security capacity? The cabinet has chosen to formulate the right to a fair trial as a fundamental subjective right that gives citizens a certain right towards legislator and judge. My group is happy to support that line, but that obviously means that, for example, the judiciary should be able to make that claim. Can the Minister promise that the cabinet will do everything it can to fill the vacancies within the judiciary and the public prosecutor's office, in terms of both judicial officials and state officials? And I ask the Minister, in structural terms, if there is sufficient budgetary space to fulfil the high task of the new Article 17 (1) Constitution with sufficient human resources, but also with sufficient time per case. Mr. Chairman. Good administration of justice, as far as my group is concerned, also calls for effective and high-quality legal aid. Lawyers and interpreters are indispensable. As far as the cabinet is concerned, is this part of the fundamental right to a fair trial, also enshrined in Article 18, sufficiently secure in practice? Then bill 35785, the electoral college. I'm just gonna say it briefly. The Dutch who live abroad now have an influence on the composition of the Lower House and the European Parliament, but not on that of the Upper Chamber. Like the government, my group considers that to be unbalanced. We therefore welcome in principle the proposed way of restoring this balance, namely with an electoral college elected by non-residents for the election of the First Chamber. The way in which the voting value is determined has changed during the drafting process of this proposed constitutional change. My group appreciates the fact that I would also like to say out loud once again that the government has been persuaded by the results of the research carried out to take another route as a starting point which is more in line with the principle of proportional representation. The proposed system with an electoral college for non-residents is, according to the government's response, unique in the world and I am inclined to believe it. Learning good experiences elsewhere is therefore not an option. The Election Council recommended that the evaluations of the electoral colleges in the public bodies in the Caribbean Netherlands be included in the implementation. The cabinet is right to point out that this is only partly possible because of the practical differences, but where it can be, it is of great importance, I would say. It is a very fundamental right, namely the right to vote and, ultimately, the composition of one of the two chambers of the States-General. My group therefore attaches great importance to the forthcoming review of the implementing legislation, which has yet to be dealt with, and expects the Cabinet to show its willingness to propose legislative changes without delay if the evaluation would give rise to this. In addition, my group is counting on the close and active involvement of the Election Board in this evaluation. I would like an affirmative response to both points. During the first reading of this bill on 6 October 2020, our former colleague, Mr Bikker, said, and I quote her: "Without a clear roadmap for the follow-up to this review, the legislative proposal and its elaboration will be an unconfirmed adventure. As far as the Christian Union is concerned, the draft law must therefore be ready for the second reading." Well, in the meantime, the proposal has already been mentioned a few times before that impact law is being examined by the House of Representatives. At the beginning of the debate we even received a few more pieces that should give some answers, but I did not read them because otherwise I would not be able to listen to Mr Baay's contribution. I gave that priority anyway. But I'll read them later. Of course, we will wait our turn with due patience, but my group is, I am sure, not without concern as to the proportionality of the voting value given to this electoral college in relation to the influence of the votes of the members of the Provincial States and those of the Caribbean Netherlands electoral colleges on the composition of the First Chamber. On this point, we call for the Minister and, once again, for close involvement of the Election Council. Then bill 35786, the general provision. The Christian Union Group agreed at first reading to the proposal to include a general provision, albeit with moderate enthusiasm. This has nothing to do with Calvinist restraint, but with a once again very sober wording, of which my group wonders what, on balance, is the added value to our Constitution. At the time, the state committee suggested that Mr Koole quoted her just... a formulation that was much more extensive. I am not going to repeat that whole quote, but I am going to remove that element under two: the government respects and guarantees human dignity, fundamental rights and fundamental principles of law. The final wording before us today is: the Constitution guarantees fundamental rights and the democratic rule of law. My group is not immediately convinced of the value of this provision. For what does this wording add to the text of the Constitution? What is behind the wording that does not guarantee fundamental rights to the government or, if necessary, to the government and to the states of law, but that the Constitution does so? While the Minister stated in Parliament's debate that the standard addressee is the one to whom the standard is addressed, first and foremost the constitutionalist and the legislator are in a formal sense, why this mystifying phrase? Can the Minister explain why human dignity has not achieved the text of the proposed provision? If a general provision had to be made, it would not have been much more meaningful to set the constitutional tone in a way that Germany, for example, does, with the premise that human dignity is untouchable, that respect for and protection of it is the vocation of the government and that, in that way, the rights contained in the Constitution constitute the frameworks within which the three state powers operate. That last part even reminds us a bit of the opening text of the State regulation for the Batavian People of 1798, which is considered our first constitution within a democratic system. In short, my group has increased doubts about this proposal and looks forward to a clear and supporting statement of reasons on the part of the Minister. You will not be able to catch my group quickly, but we wonder whether the austerity of the Constitution, as the Minister has so often said, justifies an addition as it now stands. Then the proposal 35787, repealing additional constitutional articles. In this proposal, my group has no comments other than a word of appreciation for constitutional hygiene, which reflects the desire to delete detailed provisions. Then there is the proposal 35789, the constitutional review procedure. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats has also expressed a positive opinion on this change. That is no different from this second reading. As far as my group is concerned, it is a valuable clarification and a strengthening of the procedure for amending the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-3.u170	I hear Mr Talsma say that he has growing doubts about the draft law on the inclusion of a provision guaranteeing fundamental rights and the democratic rule of law. There may have been that doubt before, but your group voted in favour of the proposal at first reading in both chambers. The Second Chamber has now done so in second reading. The wording is as it is. The Thamassen Committee's proposal has not been accepted. What causes this doubt after the proposal was adopted in second reading in the House of Representatives, which means that the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats at least now has a sword over the law, so "maybe it can't count on our support"?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-3.u171	Thank you to Mr Kox for this question. It is not so much a doubt that arose in the second reading in the House of Representatives; it is a doubt that was already present at first reading. That is why I said: with moderate enthusiasm. That was a bit of a The Hague formulation. We weren't that crazy about it. So there's always been that doubt. I think it is precisely the intention of the second reading that my group sees that at least you are reconsidering and going to think again about questions such as "what are the arguments now?', "how are the proportions?', And "what do we think of this proposal at second reading, again mostly?" On behalf of my group, I do not want to hang swords in this Chamber over anything, but I think it is too important that the Constitution should be too dear to us, not to put this important question to the Minister as far as we are concerned. I therefore think it is important to wait and see if the Minister will come up with a supporting and clear justification, which I sincerely hope will be the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-3.u172	Mr. Kox again.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-3.u173	It is, of course, a second reading. It is therefore very good to consider again, but Mr Talsma has some questions about the wording, which we adopted at first reading. We have established that this is stated in the Constitution. At second reading, we are not going to say that we would rather have a sister or something. The right of amendment is then no longer available. Is it not a bit risky from the point of view of being a reliable co-legislator to say at second reading 'we would have preferred to have it reworded'?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-3.u174	No, I do not agree with Mr Kox at all, because that would mean that this whole second reading would be a bit of a paper reality or some sort of farce. I wouldn't make that one of those. I therefore believe that it should be genuinely a second reading and also sincerely ask for a second consideration. My group is eager to do so and needs the Minister's answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-3.u175	I have a healthy doubt with Mr Talsma of the Christian Union in this section on the general provision. But I also heard him say something about the standard address, if that general provision were to be introduced, because perhaps Mr Talsma is going to support it. Mr Talsma says that this is about the government as a standard address. Can he indicate what he means by "the government"?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-3.u176	I said this, of course, in a somewhat broader context, which I am sure cannot be reproduced by Mr Van Hattem because of time. I was concerned that the original wording, which was already quoted by Mr Koole, was about the government, which, as far as I am concerned, is about the government as a whole, the government within the meaning of the three state powers, and that is what has become now: the Constitution is going to guarantee something. There's a question for me. How am I supposed to see that? Then what is guaranteed by whom?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-3.u177	I am asking this question a little bit in the broad sense. If the government is the standard address, does that include any state power, including public bodies such as the High Colleges of State, including our First Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-3.u178	To join the latter: as far as I'm concerned, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-3.u179	That's a clear answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-3.u180	Mr. Chairman. The final part I would like to address is legislative proposal 35790, change on the immunity of letter, telephone and telegraph secrecy. At first reading, several questions were asked about this proposal on behalf of my group. The answer to this question was to a large extent a contribution to our support for the proposal, even now that it would have the effect, as far as I am concerned, of exchanging the impressive concept of 'inviolability' for'respect'. Fortunately, there is no technology-neutral formulation on this issue. At this second reading, my group has no reason to look at the proposal differently. However, in view of the future use of the provision and interpretation by the judge, I would like to ask for a clear confirmation from the Minister on two points. First of all... Is it true that, when the term 'brief and telecommunications secret is used, it is a message or message transmitted by means of a means from one privacy to another, b a message or a message to be entrusted to a third party for the purpose of that transfer, and c a message or a message to be addressed? In this way my group understood it at first reading, but the question to the Minister is: is this true? Second. Can the Minister confirm that the new wording of Article 13 Constitution, which adds national security as a limiting criterion, does not in any way restrict the detection and prosecution of criminal offences in relation to the current wording? Mr. Chairman. I would like to leave it at that in the first place. I look forward with interest to the Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-3.u181	Thank you very much. President. - I call Mr Van der Linden. He is speaking on behalf of the Nanninga Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-3.u182	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all also congratulations to fellow minister Van den Berg of the VVD with his maiden speech. That was an impressive story. Mr. Chairman. Constitutional changes are quite rare. To prevent them from being rash and going through both chambers quickly, we have a first and second reading. For example, some too miserable plans of parties that happen to have majorities at that time can be avoided by parties that later sit in the First and Second Chambers. That seems to us to be careful and it can lead to rethinking. The legislative proposal 35786, elected by non-residents for the election of the First Chamber, is a proposal which will certainly lead to some rethinking in our group. The situation in the Netherlands is as follows: The First Chamber of the States-General is elected by the Provincial States. The Dutch choose the Provincial States. He chooses the First Chamber kicked out. Non-residents do not vote for the Provincial States. The result is that they cannot now vote indirectly in favour of the First Chamber. When we make an exception for non-residents, we de facto let go of the way we choose the First Chamber. In fact, according to the present change, we are going to work with two separate systems. In one system, the Upper House is still elected by the Provincial States. In the other system a phantom organ is formed to co-choose the First Chamber. Where the voters of the Provincial States can still take local interests into account in their vote and may therefore vote for a different party than in the national elections, this does not, of course, apply to non-residents. After all, there are no local interests representing this 'phantom body', as I have just mentioned. It's just a passing door of voices. As a result, for non-residents, the election of the First Chamber is in fact made direct. My group has doubts as to whether the impact of the proposed trick on the way in which we elect the First Chamber in the Netherlands outweighs the supposed advantage. Nor is it clear how the proposed constitutional amendment will not prejudice Article 4 of the Constitution. Article 4 of the Constitution states that every Dutch citizen is equally entitled to elect the members of general representative bodies and to be elected members of those bodies, subject to restrictions and exceptions laid down by law. The core is in that word "equal." How does the proposal guarantee equal voting rights here, no more and no less than others? This is not dealt with in the proposal. For this purpose, reference is made, not unjustly, to a necessary amendment of the Kieswet. A restriction as referred to in Article 4 of the Constitution is possible, but can only be regulated by law. In the further legislative elaboration of the proposed amendment to the Constitution, the question will have to be answered as to whether such a restriction is preferable to the current imbalance in the government's view. In any case, what my group calls the counter-and-namer problem is here. That has been mentioned a number of times. In the Provincial State elections, it is clear that the number of votes is set against the number of inhabitants of the province. The numerator is the number of votes and the denominator is the number of inhabitants in the province. But what exactly is the denominator when it comes to Dutch people abroad? Is that the world population, to which reference has just been made, the number of non-resident Dutch registered abroad or the actual votes we have read about? In all cases we are dealing with a more or less arbitrary definition of the denominator, because no simple definition as "inhabitant province" can be simulated. In all cases, therefore, we must ask ourselves whether we are not violating the principle of Article 4 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-3.u183	I have a brief question for Mr Van de Linden on the numerator, the denominator and the population. The population in the provinces also includes those who do not have the right to vote but live in the Netherlands on the basis of a residence permit. In that sense, the system is already somewhat "polluted." I don't want to use the word "polluted." How can I put it? It is wider than the specific Dutch character of the inhabitants of a province. The same applies, of course, to Dutch people abroad. Do you see that parallel?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-3.u184	Yeah, that's a good point. It's a bit of craftsmanship, so to speak. Mr Kox referred to the proposal now before us as 'artificial'. So the question that lies ahead is whether we can do some more crafts with the craftsmanship. The consideration is whether you should want that at this stage, or whether you should not look at it quite differently. Our group expects us to create, by solving the supposed imbalance, more imbalance which goes a little further in the light of state law. That is why we are still considering this proposal. We are in principle in favour of today's other proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-3.u185	Thank you. Finally, Mr Otten. He is speaking on behalf of the Otten Group. Mr Otten has indicated that he will be able to make his contribution within five minutes. We can hold him to that, knowing him.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-3.u186	Mr President, that in any case. You know us: we often come to the heart of the matter briefly and forcefully. Mr. Chairman. First of all, we congratulate Mr Van den Berg on his fascinating maiden speech. Today we are discussing a number of amendments to the Constitution. First of all, the amendment to include the right to a fair trial in the constitutional provisions. This is the result of the CDA-motion-Lokin-Sassen adopted in 2012 on ensuring a fair trial for an independent and impartial judge. Mr. Chairman. I noticed that the husband of former Senator Lokin-Sassen, the well-known Groningen lawyer Jan Lokin, unfortunately died last week. Our condolences to former senator Lokin-Sassen, to her family and to the CDA group. I personally cherish good memories of the fascinating lectures Roman law by Jan Lokin in the Groningen Martinikerk. Mr. Chairman. The Lokin-Sassen motion was specifically concerned with administrative procedures. They are not sufficiently guaranteed through Article 6 of the ECHR. As is well known, our group believes that administrative jurisdiction should be removed from the Administrative Court of the Council of State. This is a serious looming error in our system of legal protection. The Lokin-Sassen motion, co-signed by Mr Koole, seems to aim for this. We will therefore support this provision of the Constitution, partly because it provides a constitutional basis for removing the power of justice from the Council of State and placing it with the civil courts. We will therefore support this proposal. Then the right for the more than 1 million Dutch outside the Netherlands to vote for this Upper House. Many of these Dutch people closely follow Dutch politics and many have fled this country because they are tired of the poorly functioning Dutch political system. I can talk about this myself, because I have also left this country a number of times in the past, for example for this reason. These 1 million people represent about seven First Chamber seats. That is a group as large as the Nanninga Group or the D66 Group, at least as it is in the present First Chamber, or three times the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. It is good that the choice of the First Chamber is modernised and that we are now leaving behind the nineteenth-century practices of driving the stagecoach from the province to The Hague. Things like nationality, pension and immigration also affect many Dutch people abroad. I refer to Article 4 of the Constitution. This provides that every Dutch citizen has the same right to elect the members of the general representative bodies. I also refer to the combination with Article 50 of the Constitution. The States-General, including the First Chamber, represent the entire Dutch people. We will therefore vote in favour of this amendment of the Constitution. Mr. Chairman. Then we come to the point of including in the Constitution a general provision that the Netherlands is a democratic rule of law. We see this provision as a first step towards the constitutional modernisation of the Netherlands, i.e. the introduction of mayors directly elected by the population, such as in the rest of the world, a democratic redeployment of the regions in the Netherlands with regional parliaments and elected governors and, if all this is settled, the shutting down of the provinces and the introduction of constitutional review to bring our Constitution back to life. Mr. Chairman. Our group will therefore support the proposals to amend the Constitution that are before us today in the First Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-3.u187	Thank you. I will see if there are any Members who wish to speak in the first term. That is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-3.u188	At a later stage, the Minister's response comes from the Minister.
