ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-22.u1	The next item is the amendment of various laws relating to silence in youth care, care and support (35771). This is the third term. It is there at the request of the Group of the Party of European Socialists and the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance. It is rare for us to have a third deadline, but today we have a third deadline. A warm word of welcome to the Minister and the Secretary of State. The Secretary of State will have to be "on the other hand" as we used to say. Now the First Chamber is a little further away. It would therefore be nice if we could go through the contributions of the Chamber briefly and pointlessly, so that the Secretary of State can start replying and then go on his bike to the Senate. The first speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mrs Westerveld of the GroenLinks Group. The floor is up to her.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-22.u2	It will be fine with that short and pointy, Mr President, because I am glad that we can continue to talk about this law today. We didn't press this because we wanted to make this a political show. If we wanted to, we would have chosen a different subject. But this is legislation, we have questions about a number of definitions, and this should just be good in the law. One of our most important tasks as a government auditor and co-legislator is to avoid any ambiguity in legislation or in its implementation. I'm glad the Secretary of State is here now. Mr. Chairman. In the previous debate, I asked whether the bill should actually apply to the Youth Act. I did not ask that because we would be in favour of silence in the Youth Act. That is certainly not the case. But I did ask because it was chosen to use the terminology of other healthcare laws and introduce them into the Youth Act, and because the legal frameworks unknown to employees in the field may raise questions. For example, in other health care laws there is talk of an "incident" while in the Youth Act it is called "calamity." Those two terms have slightly different definitions. For example, the definition of calamity refers specifically to parents and young people. The letter still does not make it clear to me why the Youth Act cannot simply refer to the term 'calamity' and the term 'incident' in the other laws. Can the Secretary of State explain this? Mr. Chairman. We also had a number of questions about the definition and scope of the word "incident." The Minister has already clarified this in the letter and has given some colour with examples from youth protection. That's very nice. However, a number of questions remain about this definition. I know that Mr Kwint is going to come up with a number of specific examples of this. I agree with that. A number of questions also remain with us about the definition of "hush" clause. The Minister specifically emphasizes in the letter that there really must be an agreement between the parties in order to remain silent about something. Otherwise, it's not a silent clause. But that remains a little unclear. Should such an appointment, for example, be in writing, or can it also be made orally? Does it depend, for example, on how it is experienced by someone? For example, can a parent experience something as a non-disclosure clause, or see something as an arrangement if it is not legally understood? Can the Secretary of State clear that up? Suppose, for example, there's a 16-year-old thing at home. The child comes into contact with child care. Suppose something happens and the child doesn't really want to be communicated outside. That's why agreements are made with the parents. What happens in such a case? Is that a hush word, yes or no? So this is also about a child's privacy guarantees. Finally, Mr President. I have tabled a number of amendments. I have a few more questions about that. These amendments have all been dissuaded, but this was mainly for procedural and technical reasons, for example because the subject would not fit within this legislative proposal. I have difficulty with that, because these amendments are modifications to improve the right to complain within the Youth Act. Recent research, including on the safety experience of young people, shows that the majority of young people do not complain because of their lack of knowledge of the procedures or because of their questioning of treatment. In my amendments I propose minor improvements. In the amendments to documents Nos. For example, 7 and 9 regulate the establishment of the complaint procedure and the annual evaluation of complaints with young people. In the amendment to item No. 8 it is arranged that the complaint procedure is also explained orally, so that everyone is aware of it. And in the amendment to item No. This is an amended number and we have amended this amendment slightly. We are going to arrange for young people to be involved in a treatment themselves. I would also like a substantive response from the cabinet to these amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-22.u3	Your amendment to item No. 15 is to replace the amendment to item No. 15 is to replace the amendment to item No. 15 is to replace the amendment to item No. 15 is to replace the amendment to item No. 15 is to replace the amendment to item No.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-22.u4	That's right. That amendment has been slightly modified.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-22.u5	Very good. Then we are going to listen to Mr Kwint of the SP Group. He is also the last speaker on the side of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-22.u6	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. What exactly is "an incident"? That was the cliffhanger we ended the debate with last time. Firstly, I would like to thank my fellow Members for the opportunity to reopen the debate. We all attach great importance to precise legislation. I therefore welcome the fact that there is still room to speak through this together. The SP is very keen to vote in favour of this law. We are in favour of a legal ban on silence in care, but after the letter we are still concerned about unintended ambiguity and therefore uncertainty. The Minister writes in her letter that terminology has been carefully chosen and that an incident is an unintended unexpected event relating to the quality of care involving damage or potential damage to the patient. In the end, I do not think the explanation that follows is so clear. Let me give you a few examples. A girl in disability care is sexually abused for a long time and the institution does not intervene sufficiently. The fact that sexual abuse causes harm is not a point of discussion. Whether this is an unintended event is. I don't think you can hold on to the fact that the damage caused by abuse wasn't foreseeable. Is it true that a non-binding clause is valid or not? A boy or girl shall be isolated or fixed for a longer period of time and shall not or shall not comply with the relevant rules. Even then you cannot say that any damage to that young person would not have been foreseeable. You know that can have harmful consequences. It can also be about much smaller things. In closed youth care, for example, your phone can now be taken away, to name but a few. This is relatively futile compared to my previous examples. But if you miss an announcement that something serious has happened to a family member, if you do not hear of it until later, if it leads to damage or trauma and if a non-disclosure clause is agreed upon, is it valid or not? I am not asking for this because I am extremely happy to come up with complex examples, but because we want to avoid that this legislative proposal, which is intended to improve the legal position of clients, will ultimately leave unnecessary room for silence and that uncertainty will lead to legal proceedings being brought by people who are already in a vulnerable position. I hope that this reopening can remove that ambiguity. Finally, the Minister writes in her letter that she has forwarded my motion on silence in education to the Ministry of Education. I wondered if she had any idea when they were going to reply, because we are voting on that law next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-22.u7	So much for Mr Kwint and so much for the third term of the Chamber. I'm gonna suspend for five minutes and then we're gonna listen to the Secretary of State and the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-22.u8	I recommend Mr Kwint to have a good career at ProDemos. Then he can give guided tours for the rest of his working life. I am sure he can do that as the best, but if he does not mind, I am happy to give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-22.u9	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It took a little longer than planned. Apologies for that, also to the Chamber, but good questions really need to be answered. That's what we were talking about. Let me start with the question of what is actually an incident and what a calamity, and what if there is discussion about it. I would like to make a few technical comments. This bill introduces the concept of "incident" into the Youth Act. This is introduced in relation to the nullity of silence. Not everything is an incident, as you yourself have clearly pointed out, but the term 'incident' is not new. It is already used in the Wkkgz and also in the Implementing Decision. That is why, in principle, it is also perfectly practicable for the Youth Act. But again, the concept of "incident" is used only to indicate the nullity of non-disclosure. If an incident causes death or serious injury, there is a "calamity," an already known and existing concept in the Youth Act. Indeed, the Youth Act already knows that concept. And emergencies should be reported to the IGJ without delay. A specific question, also from Mr Kwint, which I would like to translate as follows: can a non-disclosure clause be agreed if, according to the client, there is an incident, but not according to the provider or the healthcare provider? Well, then the current regime applies. I would like to point out that it is absolutely not in the spirit of the law if there are agreements on silence. So that would also be an undesirable outcome. This applies to questions concerning the concepts of 'incident' and 'calamity'.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-22.u10	I'm struggling with this a little bit, just because it's legislation. I know that what we are exchanging here is part of the history of law, and I do not know whether this is enough. The definition of an "incident" refers to that unintended unexpected event. My argument was correct that, for example, in the case of sexual abuse, you cannot maintain that damage to a client was not intended. As an aid worker, you need to understand that as an absolute minimum. Don't you run the risk that the law doesn't apply to these kinds of serious cases and that when someone has signed a non-disclosure clause for an unexpected reason, someone will end up getting zero on the record and starting a painful trial?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-22.u11	I can be relatively brief about sexual abuse: that is not only terrible, but always a calamity. Period. There's no discussion about that. You also mentioned examples that are indeed more complicated. So perhaps also because of the history of law: a fall from the stairs is an example of an incident. That's a clear example of an incident. And yet to outline the completeness: what is not an incident, but may be very difficult to experience, is, for example, an outing. That's not an incident. That is something of a completely different order. In calamities we are really talking about a different category. Think of sexual abuse, violence or sexual violence. It is precisely then that there is a real calamity. There is therefore an immediate obligation to report to the inspection.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-22.u12	I mention, for example, the negative consequences of long-term isolation in which protocols have not been followed. You can also say that damage to a client cannot be a surprise, so it is not unexpected. Does this therefore fall under a calamity and therefore under the scope of something that should not be covered by a non-disclosure clause in any case?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-22.u13	Apart from whether it's an incident or a calamity, we're talking about this bill because we don't think it's supposed to be a total silence. So even if there may be no incident or calamity, we say here that in the spirit of this law you never make agreements about silence and silence. That's what we're saying here. But of course there are discussions about when it is or is not an incident or calamity. Of course you have border areas in there.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-22.u14	Of course, the problem is that there are discussions about this. A whole new term is introduced here in the Youth Act. So there are no examples in the sector of when something is legally an incident. But this is leading this bill. If there is such a great deal of discussion about what is an incident, then it can of course be problematic in the implementation of this law. That's where I'm concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-22.u15	That's clear. I actually thought I had answered your question on that. It is precisely in this area that I would like to say that the concept of 'incident' is, of course, new in the Youth Act but not new in the Wkkgz. In short, in that respect this term is well known within the care, but we bring the Youth Act in line with the Wkkgz. That is why we are ensuring that legislation is more consistent and aligned. But the concept is, in itself, new in the Youth Act but not new in that broader legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-22.u16	Then perhaps the amendment? That had already been dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-22.u17	I am indeed going to two amendments which I would like to welcome. That is the amendment to item No. 9. This amendment has indeed been dissuaded for procedural reasons. In principle, it is not about the fact that we are discussing something else here but about something else. At the same time, we have once again looked at the substance and asked ourselves: do we share what Mrs Westerveld is presenting here? We will then find that we share it from a to z. That is why we are now determining the following. Since the content from a to z corresponds to what we want, we would like to give the amendment Chamber judgment. Then I come to the amendment to item No. 15. This has been adapted to the fact that it is now stated that the aid plan is "as much as possible" to be drawn up in consultation with young people and parents, rather than "at all times." This gives room for certain situations in which it really cannot be in conjunction. We can all imagine that. But this adjustment will also allow us to give this amendment judgement Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-22.u18	Fine. 'Cause if no. 10 was the dissuade and as no. 15 has now been given the Judgment Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-22.u19	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-22.u20	Fine. We thank the Secretary of State for his contribution and wish him a pleasant trip to the First Chamber. Then I am happy to give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-22.u21	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, Mr Kwint's question about when the Minister of OCW responds to the motion I passed on. I think the motion already said that it would be for Princess' Day. So that's not next week, but for Princess Day it will be taken away.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-22.u22	Now I'm a little confused, because I think the motion to return to Princess's Day's question was whether silence in education is desirable and what can be done about it. If the Minister of Education comes back to that, I can withdraw the motion. That's fine, by the way. I'd be happy to. If he comes back with that information... I thought he'd just give a pre-advisation to the Chamber about this motion, but if he takes it over anyway, I can withdraw my motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-22.u23	I don't know yet. All I know is he'll be back before Princess Day. I'll direct the motion to the Minister of OCW. That's what I did last week...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-22.u24	Then he'll have to give a judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-22.u25	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-22.u26	But I understand he's only going to give that judgment somewhere between now and Princess' Day.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-22.u27	Yeah, I think that's the way we agreed.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-22.u28	That is very spacious, I think Mr Kwint would like to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-22.u29	You are well aware of my non-verbal communication.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-22.u30	Is it possible for the Minister to forward it a little faster, with a post-it saying "please respond quickly"?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-22.u31	I just can't promise it's for next Tuesday, but at least I'll do my best to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-22.u32	No, we're not going to the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-22.u33	I promise. I think I promised you that last time.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-22.u34	Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-22.u35	Then we're out.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-22.u36	Then I have the appreciation of the amendment to item No. 8 of the Westerveld member. It proposes to include in the Wkkgz that a complaint officer should explain an oral complaint regime. In the Wkkgz it is already laid down that complaints are properly brought to the attention of the public. What is a suitable way can vary from one situation to another. In practice, this will often be oral. I do not see any problem in explicating that in the law, provided that customization remains possible. I also think it is desirable that the Wkkgz and the Youth Act should be aligned on this point. I can therefore give this amendment a Chamber's opinion if it is added that it is 'to the extent possible to explain orally' and the amendment incorporates a similar amendment into the Youth Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-22.u37	It seems quite logical to me to do so, so we are going to amend the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-22.u38	We shall then have an amended amendment to item No. 8. So it's gonna get a different number.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-22.u39	The amendment in part No. 7 continues to dissuade. That amendment proposes that each year, with representative representation of complainants, the application of the complaint regime should be evaluated and adapted. The complaint regime in the Youth Act is in the long term as far as possible harmonised with the Wkkgz. I would like to include that in the evaluation of the Wkkgz, as I said earlier, so the judgment continues to be dissuaded. That was my contribution, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-22.u40	Thank you. Mrs Westerveld, just a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-22.u41	I had another question about what exactly is a non-disclosure clause. When is that supposed to be oral? Or should it necessarily be recorded in writing?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-22.u42	Any agreement between the contracting parties in which the right is restricted or deprived to disclose information about an incident or to provide information to third parties shall be null and void. That is every form, both orally and in writing. I think that is enough to answer your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-22.u43	I think that's a very legal answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-22.u44	That's right. That's where I got my wisdom, too. I think it would be a good idea to make that part of the history of law.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-22.u45	That's great. So much for this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-22.u46	Thanks to the Minister and the Secretary of State.
