ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-9.u1	The next item is the legislative proposal Amendment of the Pension Act, the Income Tax Act 2001 and some other laws relating to the adjustment of the system for the transfer of value and repurchase of small pension and introduction of repurchase of small net pension and net income interest (36004).
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-9.u2	There are five speakers on the side of the Chamber. This was initially a hammerpiece, but Mr Omtzigt has hammered it, as we call it. He will do so with a twenty-minute speaking time requested. So that's what we're gonna sit down for. I call Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-9.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. For us there is indeed a bill with an impressive title. The content is not as impressive as the content of the other pension legislation proposals that are still in the Chamber this year. There's a whole new pension contract coming up. I would like to say here that there have already been three hearings and that all the spokesmen were present. If you look at the television, you might think we're just dealing with text messages. The pension spokesmen have been looking at the pension system for weeks, months, just like the minister and the civil servants. We don't think so, but it's not like they don't take a serious look at it. We discussed the consequences of this yesterday in a hearing. In front of us is a bill that deals with the pay-off of pensions. A pension is actually intended for a lifelong stable benefit. And in the new pension system it becomes a lifelong unstable benefit. Pension money is not, in principle, intended to be eaten before your retirement date or to spend in any other way. If you feel that too much pension is being built up, you should reduce the pension build-up, but not the one-off benefits. And yet here, in three steps in three years time, the possibilities to buy off pension are extended. At first, we could only buy off pension that was supposed to be small. Small is less than €520 pension per year; that's just over €40 per month. If it stands at 0% interest, it can also be a payoff up to €10,000. The payoff for a small pension, which we are talking about here, is by no means a small payoff. The previous bill established that you could buy off the moment you stopped building up your pension. This bill provides that any small pension can be paid off. However, it is important to look at this first. It is also my firm preference to whether you are building up with another pension fund at that time. If you build up with another pension fund, you will see if that amount can be added to your pension money in that other pension fund. There's a third bill. We have already accepted that, but that has yet to be changed. That's the bill you can buy off 10% of your entire pension. There are many people who have a pension of around €5,000. We're talking about exactly the same amounts we're talking about here. You can say: my life I receive €500 less pension, but I get paid 10% once, net cash made. And then you can actually get that €9,000 or €10,000 at once on about your retirement date. The only question is, what happens then? Why did I sign up for 20 minutes, Mr. Chairman? Because of the Dutch tax system. If you get a large amount of pension paid in one go, that is where things can go terribly wrong in the Netherlands. An example. If you're a breadwinner and have a gross wage of €23,000 and you'd go to €33,000, you'd think you'd still have some of that €10,000 in this country. Net however, according to the government tables, you go from about €30,000 to about €31,500. If you earn €10,000 extra as a earner in this country, you'll be left with €1,500 after you pay taxes and after your surcharges have been reduced. Then I haven't talked about the forgiveness. That's painful. I am also going to tell you exactly why I think this is a major problem here and in the new pension system. Suppose you tell people that once in their lives they can lower their pension a little bit and take that amount in cash. These aren't the people who have been very lucky in their lives. Those people find out that of that gross amount of €10,000 then €1,500 or €2,000 will be left and you will have an evil citizen for your life. He doesn't understand anything about that. Now the front door would be: solve the problem of high marginal rates. The best kept secret in The Hague is that not millionaires pay the highest rate but people with lower middle income, because they not only pay taxes but then lose their fees. Of every €100 they earn, they only have €30 left. My central question today is: how do we ensure that when a person receives such a ransom, he can refuse it in time? I'll be back on the rent allowance in a minute, because he can get it back. Then he'll have a slightly higher pension, because he doesn't want that money until he's retired.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-9.u4	There is a question from Mrs Van Beuker.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-9.u5	It's actually a point of order. I know Mr Omtzigt. He's always very thorough. So I thought I'd wait a minute. But here's what I see. We're in the middle of a debate tonight. You always make the point, but you also bring in a lot of other points.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-9.u6	Do you mean "you" Mr. Ommzigt?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-9.u7	I think so.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-9.u8	Apologies, Mr. Chairman. Mr Omtzigt raises a whole range of other points. I can tell that I'm getting a little bit crazy on the trail. I recognise the points you are making, but I wonder if they are currently being discussed in this debate. Look, you're saying I'll be right back on the rent payment. You also came back at that 10%. That's a completely different law, which we're going to deal with at another time. As far as I am concerned, it is awkward to include that point now. It's about the payoff tonight. You made a math example of...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-9.u9	"Mr. Omtzigt made a calculation example."
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-9.u10	Apologies. I'm so excited, but I'm gonna do my best.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-9.u11	It's a pleasure for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-9.u12	I'm gonna do my best now. Mr Omtzigt made a calculation example of that €500, which is the maximum requirement in this law. It is proposed to adjust to €10,000 if this could be paid off in one go. That's a huge amount of money. That is why Mr Omtzigt is making a point of this. I understand that, but I'd like to ask you to limit it to this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-9.u13	That €10,000 is the example of this law. But let me just add that this is going to happen to all three legislative proposals. I'm really committed to stressing that. In fact, if we continue with the 10% buy-back bill without this problem being repaired... In the note on the report, the government states that this is due to information. Then we have the same problem there. I am describing here an example that is happening with this bill, with the people covered by this bill. So, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-9.u14	Mr Omtzigt points out that he is using an example that is covered by this law, but he is also passing on to the other two legislative proposals. My question, which, in my view, concerns Rule 8.15 of the Rules of Procedure, is to stick to the subject of this evening and to confine ourselves to the present law. If Mr Omtzig wants to talk to us further about how we can ensure that it does not cause people a great deal of trouble if these amounts are paid into accounts at once, then I would like to talk about that. If that's the proposal, just this law on it, then I'd like to talk about it. However, the other two laws are not before us this evening.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-9.u15	It's about this law and it applies q.q. for the other two laws. Those other laws are subject to a lot of other things, but I didn't want to deal with them tonight. However, there is a central problem here. This central problem is still somewhat mitigated for this legislative proposal. That is the case because you can indicate that it is a special income. In this case, you can get the rent allowance back. So my first question to the Minister is: how do we ensure that people automatically do not have to pay back the rent? This does not apply to the other legislative proposal. In this context, it is taking place in full measure. The second problem is as follows. Suppose you get an amount deposited in your account in December, that you go through the limits of your surcharges, that is, there are power limits on................................................................................................................................................................................ Then for the rest of the year, you are not entitled to any allowances. With this bill you get the money about automatically paid out. How can people ensure that it doesn't happen to them if they don't want this money, that the rent premium is not reduced when they get the money.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. This is a very poignant situation when pensions are paid off. Mr. Chairman. Then the next problem: at what time do you make the buy-back? If this buy-back takes place during the period when you reach the AOW age, it is important to know that you still pay AOW premium before the AOW age and that you no longer pay an AOW premium after the AOW age. This means that marginal rates for people over the AOW age are much higher than for those underneath. Tell me yourself, you don't want to pay an AOW contribution about your retirement. It was meant for the time before you reached the AOW age. Then you won't have to pay any more AOW premiums. Are there any ways to exempt this benefit from the AOW premium? Even then, you'd be a long way. That was precisely the intention of this one-off benefit. That also affects the other bill. If we don't want to talk about it, we'll talk about it with the other bill. I give you the warning that this bill is not going to work. Mr. Chairman. The third thing I want to say about this bill is that there's a power test on it. The do-it-yourself test will see if people can understand it, handle it and make the decision. The power test goes through the bill in one go with seven-mile boots. He says: "There are already other decisions where they can do this. People are perfectly capable of making a decision. The bill also says you can object to it. People can weigh well whether or not they have it and are done." I have two objections to that. The first objection is what I just said. The tax and surcharge system is so complicated that it can be very good that people find out afterwards that they really wouldn't have liked to have been paid off at all. What scope for action do people still have at the time? The second thing I read with some entertainment about the power test is that people can judge all this very well, when we say in the big change in the pension fund that people are mentally unable to think about whether they want the new system or not. I would like to have an explanation as to why they would be able to take this decision and not be able to make the big decision. As far as I am concerned, there is a certain inconsistency in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-9.u16	It's a technical story. I do understand that Mr Omtzigt would like to make a comparison with the new law, but this is really about this law tonight. Mr Omtzigt continues to refer to and compare with other laws. I don't understand that very well. I know Mr Omtzigt as someone who is straightforward and knows exactly what he wants to talk about, but I do not follow him in this. Mr Omtzigt wants to compare this law with other laws that are still coming. Is it possible to just talk about this law?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-9.u17	I'm just talking about the Pension Act and the Pension Act is ahead of us. There's a change ahead and there are other articles you compare it with. I don't remember any debate about taxes that you don't compare to taxes that you don't want to compare to taxes on one hand. I'm not bringing in a file that has to do with running manure or anything. I'm talking here purely about pension laws. That I could not compare it with that, I find quite frankly a bit far-fetched. I stick with it: if people can determine this, why can't they decide on the big pension reform? And how can they reverse it if they regret that it is automatically paid out? If they can't, where will they end up? Then there's a point about the net family benefit. A few years ago, we decided that you only build up a pension or at least build up a pension under the reversal scheme up to an income of €100,000. Meanwhile, it has gone to €112.000. This bill includes the possibility to also buy off net family interest rates. For those who have never heard of it: net family interest rates are a very weird duck in the bite. Actually, it's just a piggy bank. If you have a high income, you can put a certain amount in that piggy bank every month. The big tax advantage of that is that you are not covered by box 3, so you do not have to pay the capital efficiency tax on it annually. You know, that box 3 everyone has a problem with after the Supreme Court ruling. If you pay out the money from that savings box at once, you don't have to pay a revision rate. Now I think the idea of not paying a revision rate is very good in itself. If that savings are relatively small, if there is perhaps a few hundred or a few thousand euros in it and you do not build up on it, then there is a lot to communicate about every year and then you want that money to be transferred. My question is as follows. If we abolish the revision rate for the net pension, which I think is a good thing, that means you don't have to pay 20% tax. But then there is still one group here that suffers incredibly from revision interest, and those are the self-employed who come into the assistance. If you're self-employed, if you're in welfare, if you have an annuity somewhere or if you've saved something if you're a zzp'er, you're not only obliged to pay it, so you're forced to empty all your life-long pension, but you're also obliged to pay taxes on it. We have already shown that this is sometimes 50% and in very bad cases amounts to 80%. But on top of that 50% you pay, you also have to pay 20% revision interest. People who do that can't suffer. To my great surprise, a financial annex now said that it does not cost anything that there is no need to pay a revision interest on net pensions. I thought 'that's nice', because so far, the times when many parties have brought it up here, one argument has been given: if you want to abolish the payment of revision interest for the welfare recipients, that costs money. And now, if you want to abolish it for the people over a ton, it doesn't cost money. I would like an explanation. If that could be abolished for the welfare workers, I would think that would be a significant step forward. Mr. Chairman. Those are my technical points on this bill. I will come back to the other points later.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-9.u18	We're looking forward to that. One more question from Mr Smalls.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-9.u19	I agree with Mrs Van Beucker that it might have been more logical to have this debate at the Law amount at once, because it is, of course, mainly about these amounts suddenly, which is now a problem. I also recognize what Mr. Omtzigt says about those amounts all of a sudden, especially in the category Mr. Omtzigt mentioned, the €20,000 to €30,000 Mr. Omtzigt mentioned. I wonder whether Mr Ometzigt agrees with me that there are also many groups to come up with which such a sum can suddenly be very logical or, to stick to this law, the purchase of a pension can be very logical, for example because the administration costs are higher than the payment of the pension itself or for any other reason; I can think of a lot more. But I think this one is the most important.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-9.u20	For those pensions for which the administrative costs are higher than the pension, we already had a special law a few years ago, because you are talking about pensions of at most a few tens. Then it can be automatically and there can be no objection. That is also very logical, because you can imagine that it is quite bizarre when a pension fund has to spend euros annually to keep track of a claim of some tens of euros. By the way, that has already been taken care of. This is about the slightly higher pensions. Buying off all of a sudden can be very pleasant for a lot of people. But I have learned here by legislation that you should not introduce something if something works for 80% of the people in itself and if you do not arrange that those 20% of the people for whom it turns out to be dramatic, have ways of not letting it go. That's actually what we did with that Bill Amount all of a sudden. That's why I'm flagging him here. That is why I asked this question in the report, and I also said that we must correct it. At that time, the government's answer was: we are going to do so with good information. Then I say: then there is a category of people who do not understand the social security system and the supplement system, who are not going to understand what the result of agreeing to pay you, and that we all have a problem. I would rather avoid this problem than ask for an urgent debate afterwards if there are a lot of difficult cases coming in. Besides, there's another group we're forgetting here. That's the group of earners whose partner who works is older when he retires. Those bags go through every ice cream, because if you retire as a earner, you get the married AOW. That means that the fat €800 for your partner will only be added two years later and then you will have a decent family income again. It is exactly that group that would like to have an extra amount once and it is exactly that group that suffers from the specific effect I have just shown you with the surcharges.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-9.u21	I think that a lot of groups would like to have a sum at once or a retirement buy-back, but I do not think we are talking about that. We are talking about the case where administrative costs are not proportionate to pension benefits. We are talking about cases where people make an informed choice and choose to do it or not. I totally agree with Mr. Ommzigt that there are a lot of cases where it is not wise at all. But does he not agree with me that we should then look for a way to make it possible for people who do need it and who do find it convenient to find the 80% as he calls it, and for that 20% to come up with something else, in the form of information and so on, rather than directly helping that 80%?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-9.u22	That's exactly what I'm doing here. I do not have an amendment here to prevent this one-off buy-back. I even agreed to that bill, but that does not relieve me of the duty to take care of the group that we can now see is not working. I have been here too often in legal proceedings where we have seen that it was going to work very well for a very large group, but we have not paid sufficient attention to the group for which it did not work. That's why I have this treatment here. And yes, that has an appeal to another law, which we would rather not mention here. I'm telling you, if we don't think about that... no, I'm gonna make it one more tooth sharper. We have a pension agreement. In that pension agreement, it's the first thing that's been arranged for that buy-back to come out of nowhere. That was a liberal wish, so it's in there. That bill was passed here before the new pension agreement. There is such a problem that there should be a repair law for that right now. It'll take a year and a half to get that repair law in place. This is the simplest part of the pension agreement, but we can't get the right. That is why I stand here today and say: watch the technical impact of what we are doing with that pension. It's not a yes-no question. It's to make sure that what people have paid their lives for comes to their bank accounts in a decent way. That's what I'm trying to do with my questions today.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-9.u23	Very good. Thank you. The next speaker is Mr Smals of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-9.u24	Thank you, Mr President. As far as we are concerned, this law would have remained a hammer piece, but now that it has been hammered out, I was planning to address something similar to this law. Pension money must have a retirement destination and not an administrative cost destination. The present law regulates that, but not quite. For various reasons, not all almost pensioners deal with letters they receive about the transfer of value or the redemption of their small pension. Some pensioners only find that they are entitled to a pension if the amount actually appears on their accounts every month. I am talking about amounts of a few euros a month. When someone contacts the performer to solve that easily, there are actually no possibilities. As a follow-up to the debate, when people know what they are doing, it would be desirable if they could buy off these small amounts after retirement. I ask the Minister, in line with the present law, to consult with the sector on the assessment of the Small Pension Transfer of Value Act, which will take place shortly, in order to examine the possibilities for making this possible. I may have a motion, but as far as I am concerned, it does not have to be tabled if you just give it your word.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-9.u25	The negotiations have begun!
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-9.u26	I didn't mean you, Mr. Chairman. You know what I mean.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-9.u27	Very good. Mrs. Van Beuker of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-9.u28	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Maybe it's good to mention that this was the first time I made an order proposal. I simply think it is very important that we have the debate that we have prepared together. At the same time, I would like to congratulate Mr Omtzigt because he considers it important to mention a number of target groups. As a result, I would like to ask the Minister if she recognizes how Mr Omtzigt just spoke about it. Is it possible to introduce some safeguards in the legislative proposal so that we can meet those target groups? I note that these redemptions... Theoretically, €10,000 is a possibility, but I don't think that will happen very often. Perhaps the Minister could also comment on that. As far as D66 is concerned, it could have been a hammer piece. But it's been hammered out, so there are a number of points I'd like to add. D66 is pleased that we are going to do something about small pensions, because the burden on implementation is really very high and the return that is made with them is quite small. It's been reported before. It starts with a transfer of value, after which a repurchase may take place. I think that's a very good order. I think it is also very good that a number of further amendments are being made to this law in order to extend the proposal. I would like to make two more points. I would like participants to be activated to think properly about transfer of value or buy off, as we have discussed before. Can there be a proactive role in the cabinet in this respect in terms of implementation? We would like to think from the participant and not from the fund. We think it is very important that there should be one pension and therefore one pension. That's the technique. With this law, we make a small adjustment. Mr. Chairman. So much has been said tonight, so I'm gonna keep it a little short. I think the proposal before us is good. However, I would like to make another commitment from the cabinet on the guarantees for the group concerned and on communication. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-9.u29	Very good. Thank you. Then Mr Goudswaard of the JA group21.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-9.u30	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In the committee debate on pension issues in March, I noted that JA21 is content with the adaptation of the scheme for the automatic transfer of value for small pensions, and that is what we remain. I am also speaking on behalf of Mrs Van der Plas of BBB. The pooling of small pensions through value transfer rather than redemption prevents a lower pension income. My group also regularly receives questions from people who are concerned about their retirement. It's really not about big pensions. For many people, small amounts represent a much greater value than is sometimes assumed in The Hague. Especially at this time, when the messages become priceless and it pays to drive 100 kilometres to Germany to refuel there, small amounts have a great significance. For those who do not suffer a penny can easily tell the Dutch that they have to settle for a lower level of prosperity. Whether the value is transferred or bought off, for ordinary people a small pension can be a big thing. The transfer of value from the pension date has the agreement of my group. But there is also a situation after the retirement date. It is right that this should be taken into account in this debate. When it comes to the buy-back of a small amount, my group can agree to the possibility of buying it off. There are a lot of implementation costs involved, and it may be attractive for people to receive a lump sum payment than a relatively small amount each month. Then what's against free choice? We are also curious whether the Minister has insurmountable objections to a small pension being paid after the date of retirement. In doing so, my group wonders what is the tax situation with regard to the payment of a sum at once. Is there a risk that it will be unattractive for tax purposes? Or, according to the Minister, does that not matter? If there are no major objections, an amendment may be made to pay off after the date of retirement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-9.u31	Very well, thank you. I call Mrs Maatoug van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-9.u32	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I start with a private opinion: you cannot talk too much and think about pensions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-9.u33	So this was not on behalf of your group, I understand?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-9.u34	No, as I am told in group meetings and other consultations. Mr. Chairman. Today we are talking about the transfer of value and the buy-back of a small pension and the introduction of the buy-back of small net pensions and net family interest. Macro seems small, especially when you look at individual amounts. When I was preparing for this debate with my colleague, we also had a dream. Because how would we really want to do it in a world where we would start over behind the drawing board? Maybe you just need one pension fund that we're all members of, and it doesn't matter if you hop from one job to another, because we're all in that beautiful national fund. Then you didn't have this problem. And then, while we were talking about the drawing board, we were not talking about a tax system with this marginal pressure, and we had thought of something else, but we are living in a world in which we are having this debate and where these small problems are indeed a problem. That is why it is good that we are now having this debate together. We believe that the bill adds good things to the existing system, but there are also some questions to be asked, specifically about the case of people who have to pay out the transfer of value because they cannot transfer their small pension. I'm gonna take a theoretical case. Suppose you get $500 and you have a low income, so in that marginal pressure you're somewhere at the bottom. Then it can be so, and so it is so that you only have 20% of the €500, because 80% is taxed. My first question to the Minister is therefore: how many people are potentially affected by this situation? Do we have any idea? That is what we think is important, following Mr Omtzigt's speech. The following question to the Minister is therefore: does the Minister find this problematic? Is it desirable for people to have to deal with this? The most important question is: what can we actually do about it? Has the Minister thought about this, has she any ideas about it so that we can make this problem as small as possible and solve it? That brings me to my last question, because this bill is partly also about net pension schemes. If they are desirable at all, my question is to the Minister. After all, we do not have a capping limit for nothing, above which we no longer facilitate the building up of a pension, but with this we actually do. Apart from the question of whether it is desirable, my question is whether there is a difference between the regular pension structure and the tax burden there and the tax burden applicable to those net pension schemes. Then I have two minutes ten and I could have talked about pensions even longer, but I also like listening very much, so I will return the floor to the President.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-9.u35	Very good. Then I would like to give the floor to Mr Léon de Jong of the Group of the Party of European Socialists for Freedom. He's the last speaker on the side of the Chamber. Mrs Maatoug also spoke on behalf of the PvdA. It's not quite working out with that merger, is it? You guys really need to work on that. I'm not going over it, but work that out a little bit, I'd say. What do you think, Mr. De Jong?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-9.u36	Well, that's gonna work with the merging.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-9.u37	You're gonna turn it into politics right away.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-9.u38	Oh, yeah. Sorry, sorry, sorry. Of course, we shouldn't be doing politics here. You're absolutely right about that. Mr. Chairman. Previously, the PVV voted in favour of a legislative proposal aimed at reducing the fragmentation of pension building as a result of the flexibility of the labour market. In addition, it is intended to reduce the high administrative burden associated with the implementation of small pensions. Under this law, pension administrators have been given the possibility to transfer small pensions to the pension executor to which the participant is affiliated at that time after termination of participation in the scheme. The PVV is in favour of bundling small pensions to a pension of greater size. That could be a big advantage for the participant. That is why we voted in favour of the law at the time. Now the cabinet comes up with a bill that goes on, but is in line with that thought. So we are not against the whole story that is now before us, but we do think that this should be done in consultation with the participants. They must be properly and in good time informed. My question to the Minister is also: is this well guaranteed? It's still someone's pension. It's property. What is small for one may be substantial or large for the other. This can be essential, especially at a time when inflation is going through the roof. That is why we would very much like the Minister to ensure that pension practitioners make pension participants aware in good time of this whole change and the impact it has on those people. The same applies, of course, to the question of what is left when such a pension is paid off. We have previously tabled a motion here in the Chamber itself that if work should pay, it cannot be that, if you go to work for a few hours extra, you lose all your fees and actually do not get any better at the end of the ride. As far as we are concerned, this cannot be the case with pensions either. If you get a small pension, that shouldn't mean that you're actually going into a huge decline, that there's going to be a huge bite out of your accumulated pension. That's what I'm afraid of right now. I would like the Minister to build up a guarantee that will ensure that people who buy a small pension do not fall below the line, that the building up of their pension will not get a substantial pinch. That cannot be the intention of this law. Let me turn to the issue of the pension agreement. There is something in this law about those net family interest rates. That has to do with the pension agreement. I would have liked it a little more sophisticated if that part had just been discussed in the treatment of the pension agreement and not in this bill. I would therefore like to ask the Minister to fix that, to make this law sec on what he should be dealing with, namely the purchase of small pensions, and to make the part of net family pensions part of the treatment of the pension agreement. These are really two separate things that are similar, but have a very different basis and should be dealt with in this way, as far as I am concerned. Mr President, so far.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-9.u39	Thank you. So much for the Chamber's term. The Minister has asked for 20 minutes' thought-out time. She thought, of course, that Mr Omtzigt speaks twenty minutes; then I have to think about it for twenty minutes. That has a certain logic. At least we're gonna listen to her answers at 8:10 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-9.u40	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-9.u41	Thank you. I need to get my pieces organized. First of all, thank you to your Chamber for allowing us to discuss this bill today. It does indeed have an impressive long name. It also has a bit of history in time. So I'm gonna take that step back. Some of your members have already referred to it. Since 1 January 2019, pension administrators have the right to transfer small pensions created by job rotation to the new pension executive of this participant without the participation of the participant. By transferring that small pension to the new executive, those small pensions from the participant are grouped together into a larger pension and the chances of maintaining the retirement destination increase. As a result, pension administrators do not have to administer all of them. Some of you have said it: this leads to cost savings and clean pension administration. It's taken care of. Now to the present. There are also a number of small pensions that have a different origin from job change. For example, there may be what we have called "collective termination." The employer then cancels the pension scheme with the pension administrator for all his employees. For these small pensions, it is important that they are covered by the system of automatic transfer of value, whereby redemption is allowed only in an extreme situation. In addition, there are small net pensions which the pension administrator cannot now transfer or buy off and which should therefore remain in the administration. This also entails unnecessary implementation costs and may even lead to the erosion of the net pension. I don't think that's a good idea either. But now it is not technically possible to bring these small net pensions under the system of automatic transfer of value and thereby create the possibility for pension administrators to regulate this properly. These aspects have all been recognised and appointed by the Labour Foundation, the Pension Federation and the Association of Insurance Companies as a bottleneck, even after the entry into force of the Small Pension Transfer Act. This bill provides a solution to these bottlenecks. Finally, this bill also makes it possible to buy off a small net income without a so-called irregular act. This is also a step towards a work-form-neutral pension framework. I would like to stress once again that'small', as has already been said, may be small in the administration, but can indeed have a very great value for people. That is why we must recognise in this light that this bill is not small in itself. A number of questions have been asked by your Chamber. Mr Omtzigt in particular had a number of questions. I try to answer it in the right order, but as I said, I need to get my administration in order. I have understood Mr Omtzig's key question, if I may sum it up in this way: how can we ensure that, at the moment when there is a demand for redemption, people can make an informed choice if they are faced with that question? That is a relevant question, because it is so that redemption can have consequences for what you end up with of that amount. This has to do with different elements. This indeed has to do with the marginal tax burden. This also has to do with the question of whether or not you are entitled to a supplement and how it will ultimately be taken into account in relation to the supplements applicable in the following year. But it's also about whether you have any idea how much, if you buy something, you end up with that in your wallet. I think that Mr Omtzigt has presented a number of visual examples in which that can really be annoying in the sense that the expectations may be higher than at the time. He asked a number of specific questions. When you look at the surcharges, he asks if buying them off can have consequences for that too. Yeah, that's right. It is true that we have a special scheme for this with the rent payment, which you can say has no effect. He also asks if that can be repaired later, when you see that it has consequences. That can indeed be restored up to five years. That is a possibility, but of course you would prefer to have been able to make that weighting in advance. He also asks how we can ensure that there can be a timely refusal to pay off. It is now the case: if you do not respond to a request for a buy-back, there will be no automatic buy-back. It's not like the performer can say at the moment it's playing that he's going to buy off proactively, even though he hasn't had a reaction from the participant. That seems to me to be a sensible guarantee in this regard. Because then it can't be arranged for you without knowing or suspecting that you should have done something, yet suddenly, with all possible consequences. I think that's an important guarantee. If an offer of redemption is made, the pension administrator must also inform the participant that this may have tax consequences and also consequences around the surcharges. I hear the concern of Mr Omtzigt and indeed of other Members on this point. I therefore really want to make a commitment that I will sit down with the pension administrators again and ask how we will ensure that communication is very clear. I think Mrs Van Beuker asked for that too. People must have very clear that there may be fiscal consequences and that there may be consequences for the right of payment. It must also be clear where people can see for themselves what these consequences are. Of course, pension administrators do not have all the personal circumstances of someone in mind. If you have to do all that yourself, you'll get a heavy burden in financial accountability. The whole Wft's gonna be there. However, we must ensure that people can clearly see for themselves what consequences it may have for taxes and for the surcharges, so that they have a clear view when they are given that choice. So I can promise your Chamber that I will at least do an extra check on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-9.u42	This was also part of my input. I have a motion calling for that to be done. I see now that the Minister himself has indicated that he is going to do so. This conversation with the pension practitioners is very nice, because it can ensure that the pension participants are informed in good time. I have two more questions. One. When are you going to have that conversation? Is that before the summer? Two. What time you will find in time...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-9.u43	Find the Minister in good time...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-9.u44	... does the Minister consider it timely to inform pension participants? In other words, what does the Minister himself think is fair when it comes to informing a participant about the intention of the pension administrator?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-9.u45	First of all... Am I gonna be okay before the summer? I am going to do my best, I say to Mr De Jong, but it is not just about my agenda. It is also about the agenda of the pension practitioners, but I assume they are also listening to this debate and that they are hearing that the Chamber would like us to do an extra good check on what is in it. What's timely? Now I don't know exactly what time is current at the time of redemption. Purchasing is not a new phenomenon. It's something that's been going on for a long time. I assume there are also certain periods of time in which you inform a participant about the fact that there can or is going to be bought off. I do not personally have a private view of what is timely, but I would like to agree with the deadlines that are now in force. In any case, I have not had any complaints myself that all this would be too late.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-9.u46	I welcome the commitment that the Minister will do her best to have those talks before the summer and, of course, to inform the Chamber. My second question is in line with the problem of the loss of allowances. At least when you get paid off, it shouldn't be the case that the tax burden or any financial consequences make your pension much less than you had planned. What proposals is the Minister going to make to prevent this pain on the part of the pension participant, i.e. the loss of a pension on payoff?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-9.u47	Paying off will have consequences for the amount of your pension. It is not that you can pay off first, that you can get money for it and that your pension then stays at the same level. Of course, it does have an effect; otherwise you don't buy off. So the guarantee that Mr De Jong is asking for seems to me to contradict exactly what this means.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-9.u48	No, definitely not. The reason for this is that the administrative costs are too high, not because the participant has applied for them. It happens because a pension administrator indicates that these small pensions cost me too much and that is why I would like to transfer them to another pension fund or make sure that they are paid off. At the moment that happens, that has been an incentive from the pension administrator. Then I can imagine that this is a new fact for the pension participant and that the consequences of buying-in are quite different from the time that he himself planned it. How can the Minister ensure that the pension keeps the value someone anticipated? Purchasing always comes with effect, but at the moment that redemption is initiated by an executioner and not by the participant, there are other rules as far as I am concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-9.u49	For the sake of certainty, I would like to stress once again that there is no buy-back at the time when there is no agreement, and not even when there is a no. It now seems as if the pension executive is pushing it through, if I may paraphrase Mr De Jong's words for a moment, but that is not the case. The pension executor states: here is a possibility for redemption. Once again, I'm going to start the conversation again to say that this can have consequences, that they need to be taken into account and that it needs to be looked at how people can be referred to the good tools to calculate it themselves. But then when people make their own choices, they will no longer be entitled to benefits after retirement age. At the moment I would say that there is a guarantee that redemption will have no consequences, then I think that a lot of people are going to buy off now. Because then they say, "Our pension benefits will stay at the same level after that, so that's double profit." I don't think that's the idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-9.u50	Sorry, Chairman, I'm closing up. I'm not saying it to create a contradiction. It's not like I'm looking for something the minister and I wouldn't agree on. I don't think so. There's a law in front of it. Our group simply intends to support that law. Alone, there's a pain point. At a time when there is no reason why the PVV can be paid off, this should not mean that the consequences are so great that the pension is not worth so much, however small it may be. The idea of retirement is that it's worth something. It is also important for trust in pensions that we take into account the value of a pension. Now I have the next question. When paying off a small pension, the tax burden has a certain level, as opposed to a large pension, where the tax burden may be much better to bear. How do we ensure that a small pension retains its value?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-9.u51	I do not think I understand Mr De Jong very well. I think it's me.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-9.u52	Then we'll just lock up. My point is, you're building up your pension and you don't want this pension to be worthless by paying off that hasn't been your own incentive. If you have €100 and have it bought off, but then there is €10 left, then you don't have that €90 anymore, let me give you an example. That is not the intention, of course. That has to do with the tax burden. My question is: how will the Minister prevent such a situation from arising?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-9.u53	In my view, with the legislative proposal adopted by this Chamber in 2019, we have taken all the steps to ensure that the key issue is the transfer of value everywhere. When a small pension can be transferred, that is also the norm. In fact, there is a guarantee that people will continue to build up a pension. At the same time, there were a number of cases, which I have just mentioned, due to collective termination, net pension schemes or net family interest rates, in which this was not yet possible. We've been looking at the latest default options for that. Then you come to a payoff. I understand Mr De Jong a little better now. I think the guarantee he's looking for, namely that you're still gonna have a pension, is settled with the bill in 2019.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-9.u54	The cases that are problematic are, of course, exactly the ones in which it is desirable for no one. You'll get a letter from your pension administrator saying: "Oh, know we haven't been able to find anyone else to transfer the pension to, and the execution costs are so high that something is going to happen to your pension that will cut you down. If you get a letter stating that you do receive some money from your pension, instead of it disappearing because of the execution costs, you agree to it. My first question concerns the commitment I have just received. Thank you for that. So good communication, but then you still have to go through that mangel. What can we do to ensure that you can have resources at the Tax Office, for example, that you know where you can go and what your options are? I want you not only to have information with your pension administrator, but also to be able to do something on the IRS side, making the problem as small as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-9.u55	On the website of the Tax Administration there are tools to calculate what a certain change in your situation has for possible consequences for your fees etc. This already exists, and we want to make an active reference to it: you can enter your data there and then you can see what consequences this may have for, for example, the right to allowances. So that's what the IRS already provides for. I'm just trying to point out Mrs Maatoug's question. Does she want you to be able to check with the Tax Office yourself what marginal pressure you're under?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-9.u56	Let me explain. I asked how big the group is, and I hope it's not very big. If you're confronted with this, you'll get very good information. Then you have to do something. One of them is very good at it. He grabs the tool and then knows exactly what to do. And the other doesn't know where to start. He doesn't find the tool and he doesn't know. I ask that, in addition to providing information, people help to do this as well as possible within the options. A very clear letter with a reference to a tool at the Tax Administration is step one. That's super good. But the problem is that a lot of people don't have that overview, that a lot of people have no idea. Then it would be very nice if it says, "Call the Tax Phone." And then the people there know exactly what to do with you, how to explain that tool. Maybe they can use the 500 euros, which reduces the impact. I'm kind of looking for such a more active attitude from the pension executive, but also from the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-9.u57	It is, of course, already the case in general that you can call the Tax Phone when you have questions about taxation and the possible consequences. It is not the case that we are now putting something new into this, because at the moment there are a lot of people's questions when their situation changes. They want to know whether there are fiscal consequences or something like that. I can check with the Tax Phone whether they are aware of the fact that this bill exists. I will. I'll ask the people to include this in their services at the IRS. I can't promise yet, but I'll see if I can. Again, it is not that the phenomenon of "buying off" is something very new. It's not like nobody's ever worked with it before. In this sense, this situation is already valid at the moment for people who are dealing with the pay-back of a pension. We are talking about a few smaller pensions, a category of pensions that are clear and delimited. I will check with the Tax Office and inform the Chamber whether there is any need for additional information or whether it is said that we can chop with this axe, because we know the phenomenon of "buying off."
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-9.u58	Finally. Thank you for the commitment on the questioning. My last question is a check question. My colleague was just talking about this situation which is really undesirable for everyone. Is it true that on the other hand there is another pension administrator who just isn't waiting for it? Is the reason that this transfer of value cannot take place due to a collision of interests, where the interest of the participant is ultimately the least guaranteed? Can the Minister say anything about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-9.u59	The starting point is automatic value transfer. Let's just keep hammering on that for a while. Now it seems like we're just paying off retirement here. That's really the default. At the moment when five times cannot be transferred to another pension fund, you have quite a unique situation. But if this happens, the demand for redemption will be addressed. This also concerns a number of categories of specific pensions, the net family interest rate has just been mentioned and the net pension scheme, in which there are not so many practitioners who offer these schemes. It is such a specific feature of a pension that you can also see there that in many cases transfer of value is not actually possible. Then you come back to that point of "if you can't do it all" and then you have this as the last option to do it. And again, no one is obliged to do it. It's an offer you're getting and there's no duty to take it. That is something I would like to emphasise. Let's see. I would have stayed with Mr Omtzigt's questions. He specifically asked at what time you're making the buy-back. Is that on or after the AOW age? Because that can turn out different in terms of tax burden. When it comes to redemption on or after the AOW age, the Pension Act offers the possibility to postpone the redemption until after the AOW age. The legislative proposal for a revision of the amount suddenly introduces a similar deferment option for the sale of the sum at once, but we will talk about that later. I'm not going to talk about it here either. I'm afraid to talk about it anymore, Mr. Chairman. I hope to send this bill to your Chamber very soon, so in that sense there is also that possibility in this proposal that the participant can make a choice. That also seems to me to be a point that I would like to say at the same time that we need to take good account of communication so that participants are aware of this possibility at the moment when the issue of redemption is being proposed. Mr Omtzigt had a question about the revision interest rate. If the revision rate is abolished for net pensions, why is it not done for self-employed persons in the assistance to eat their pensions, so I say disrespectfully? Let me be clear again: the revision rate applies only to gross pensions. This does not apply to net pensions and net family pensions. Therefore, there is no abolition of revision interest rates for net pensions and net family interest rates because nothing changes in this respect. I think that might create the uncertainty with regard to what Mr Omtzigt saw. Then Mr Omtzigt also had a more political question. He said "I only have a technical input," but there were also some more political questions in his input. I see he admits that right away. Why do we say in this bill that people can make choices and that they have a choice, but couldn't the people who will be able to make that choice under the Future Pensions Act, in his words? I think we're talking about two different sizes here. One is the question of what choice you have when you buy off and the other is about collective boarding. These are really two different discussions in which we can enter into the collective debate, but also this discussion, hopefully at a later stage. Of course, the advantage is that everyone participates. This is also important in order to ensure that this transition can be made, otherwise very expensive systems must continue to exist alongside each other, which also gets away with a lot. We are really talking about two different things and two different quantities.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-9.u60	Before you go any further, a question from Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-9.u61	Technically, it's not called a revision interest rate at the net family interest rate. That's right. There's no such thing. If you pay off a net income rate, while tax is not allowed, you still have to pay the box 3 tax up to ten years ago and then you get close to the revision rate. It's a little lower. This will be abolished here. Apparently, that doesn't cost any money. So I ask: is there any possibility of abolishing the revision interest rate? That's the fine you pay at a gross income rate. This concerns the people to whom the Minister also feels: if you join the assistance and are forced to eat all your annuity and you first have to pay 40% or 50% tax and then another 20% revision interest, which is of course just an extra tax, then that is a very sour way. You'll have very little left. Then you'll be through everything right away. Is there therefore the possibility of abolishing the revision interest rate?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-9.u62	That is about the interest on fines that is tax-free, that's what I'm calling it. In box 3, you didn't have to pay the tax because it was a net family interest rate. Does Mr Omtzig mean that? I'm just looking. Is he talking about gross or net pensions? It doesn't matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-9.u63	In the case of a net pension, it is as follows. If you don't comply with the buy-back order right now, the tax office will be in box 3 for ten years. Then it will be added to your box 3 power for ten years. If you have a little box 3 power, you pay 1.5% to 2% a year. This is not excluded in the case of people with an income of more than €100,000, otherwise they will not be covered by the net pension scheme. If you do that times ten years, you'll be close to 20% post-tax on your pension assets. If you buy the gross, you'll have to pay taxes, of course. Because you didn't pay that tax first, and you'll pay it afterwards. That's what you pay from your gross income. That gross taxation is therefore perfectly logical. The problem is it's in the revision interest rate that's on top of it, which is 20%, if you do something that's tax-free. The worst thing about the whole thing is that on the one hand the municipality, if you go there, can force you to pay off under the Participation Act. This concerns income that you have at your disposal. On the other hand, the tax authorities say it's fiscally unlawful, so I'm imposing a fine on you. That is, of course, a way for a citizen to feel completely deceived. That is apart from the fact that under the new Pension Act, the government is striving to bring the second and third pillars into line. Under the second pillar, you cannot be forced to pay off. Under the third pillar, we can do that. So first you can be forced to pay off. If you're forced to pay off, you'll have to hand in almost everything at the door. I would suggest that we solve that last problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-9.u64	Then it's really about: should you be able to buy your third pillar pension or not under the Participation Act? So Mr Omtzigt's question is actually more in the system of the Participation Act, in how it can work out for those who have built up pension in the third pillar, rather than in pensions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-9.u65	I'd love it if you could keep that. The problem of the third pillar is, of course, the following. At the moment you can imagine coming into the Participation Act soon, you can still make a quick deposit. So you have to have all kinds of anti-abuse provisions. The pension fund doesn't, because you're on duty or you're not on duty. You don't make a choice. So I understand that that regime is different. The most unexplainable piece is having to pay revision interest when you have to buy off the annuity. Think of a self-employed person who ends up in the assistance, to which the municipality says: buy it off. That person will not only have to pay taxes, but also the revision rate. That revision rate is almost inexplicable.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-9.u66	I'll try again. This is more in the system of the Participation Act. This just turned around. I just want to check this out. I'm trying to get back to this in the second term. I believe that this problem is, well, problem, more in the Act of Participation than in pensions. In general, there is no revision interest at net family interest rates. So that is the starting point, but let me look at Mr Omtzigt's precise question in the second term for a moment. I really need to check how this works out in the Participation Act. Then I think I have answered most of Mr Omtzigt's questions. Then I come to Mr Smals' questions. Mr Goudswaard also raised a question on the same point. The question is about voluntary buy-back. It is almost mirrored by the discussion we had here in the first part of the debate after the retirement date. That's not possible right now. If people think it's possible already, I didn't hear that, you know, I'm saying it's not. It's really a new element if we did that. It is true that we want to start the evaluation of the Small Pension Value Transfer Act in the autumn. Mr Smals asks: in the light of the evaluation, can we look again at the consequences, whether it is desirable and what comes out of it? I will take Mr Smalls' suggestion into account in the evaluation. Then we can see what the pros and cons are if you wanted this and how that would work out in practice. I still find retaining the retirement destination of money you have in its entirety a very valuable starting point, including with this law. That was also the reason why we arranged the automatic transfer of value in the bill in 2019.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-9.u67	The Minister and I fully agree on the starting points, the default et cetera. I only see similarities between before and after the retirement date, so that's why the request. But I want to thank her for the commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-9.u68	I hope that Mr Goudswaard was right to take up that commitment, because he also made this point. Then I think I will also be able to answer the questions he had on that point. Yeah?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-9.u69	Mr Smalls also spoke on behalf of JA21.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-9.u70	That's how fast it can be.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-9.u71	What wonderful combinations tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-9.u72	Mrs Van Beuker asked for a reflection on Mr Omtzigt's questions. I just gave it in all the answers to his questions. Mrs Van Beuker also asked: "Can you activate participants to think about their implementation? Can a more proactive role be taken in this?" We have just said that we want participants to be very well informed. That's, I think, more important than they think about how you should shape it all. If we get signals that certain information is unclear or whatever it is that usually doesn't come to me, but rather to the pension administrator, I think it might be a good reason to look at the lines of communication that are used. In this sense, I think it is in line with the commitment I have just made to Mr Omtzigt and others on this point. But I will stress once again in the conversation that it is important that communication is checked out as soon as those signals are there. Mr Goudswaard asked: what about tax payments? There could be consequences. That is why it is all the more important that there is good information about it so that people can determine for themselves what tax burden they end up in and what it may mean for what remains net below the line after taxation and so on. Mrs Maatoug asked more in principle... Mrs Maatoug has always had beautiful contemplative speeches. Moreover, I fully agree with her that there is not enough room for discussion about pensions. So I hope to meet you very often here on this subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-9.u73	You can just sit here for a little while on the weekends. Don't hold back.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-9.u74	No, but seriously, Mr. Chairman. I really agree with what Mr Omtzigt said. That is always a bit of a pity, because that often takes place in the evenings in halls where hardly anyone can see that that happens. Incredible hard work is being done by the committee, as I have been given to prepare us for the Future Pensions Act. That's good, and it's very necessary. I also very much appreciate the fact that everyone does that. That's what I've been saying. Mrs Maatoug had a rather contemplative question at the end: do I think it would be desirable for us to have these net pensions? The starting point for me is that there is an adequate pension scheme for all workers. I don't think we disagree on that. Net pensions are also a possibility. Mrs Maatoug says that there is also a capping limit, should we still want all this? I note that it is not the largest category of pensions we have. There's still a need for it. In any case, I want people who are building pensions to continue. Of course, this bill does not really reflect that fundamental question. It is about removing some of the bottlenecks that we have had here. But I would like to take Mrs Maatoug to the debate of principle. I imagine that at the WTP we will also discuss these matters of principle a little further. Then I'd like to discuss that with her, too. She calls a case that you only have 20% of a buy-back amount of €500. How many people are dealing with this, she asks. That is incredibly difficult to indicate, because it is of course related to a lot of factors that relate to someone's benefit or property position, with or with someone living together and so on. There are a lot of elements in it that have to do with that. So I cannot give a very substantive answer to that, but I do not have an overview to what extent. It still asks whether it is desirable to have a difference in the tax burden between a net pension and a regular pension. Net pensions and net family pensions are paid from net income. So the tax has already been paid. In the case of gross pensions and family pensions, the reverse rule applies: the tax is only paid at the time of payment. The system of taxation is different, but it is of course subject to tax in both cases. It is not the case that one is the case and the other is not. Otherwise, I think that one regime would have been extremely popular with another.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-9.u75	Mrs. Maatoug just a little bit longer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-9.u76	Thanks for the answer. The question was specific: is there a difference in the tax burden? That is not necessary in this debate, but I was wondering in the preparation of the debate: how does that add up? I understand these two systems, but do you come up with a similar tax burden or do you have two different regimes for what should actually be the same: retirement? That's the question I asked. I think it is fine if that question comes back in the second term, in another debate or in another way. But I would like to get an answer, because I thought it was an important question, I say through you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-9.u77	Again, of course, it depends very much on the characteristics of the person and in what situation he is in. We can have some kind of metaspect about it, but is there in essence... That also depends on your personal circumstances, your power position. Of course, all that kind of thing counts. It's complicated to say whether or not that's the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-9.u78	The request is also not: do a very extensive exercise with all different scenarios. That's not what I'm asking. I do that sometimes, and then I choose it very consciously. As the Minister is well aware, we often have similar tax comparisons. You take a case and you put it next to each other; then you have to think about which one you choose. Would the Minister like to see if that exercise can be done? I could also take it somewhere in a written question, but I would really like to have that question answered. Because our impression is that there is a difference. Let me just say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-9.u79	The answer that Mrs Maatoug will get when I get that question in writing is that there are so many different situations in it and that you are therefore dealing with so many assumptions, in which this tax burden... Mr Omtzigt already had a case of a earner with a certain income. There is also a difference for AOW age and after AOW age. How old is the partner? There are so incredibly many assumptions about this, for example what marginal rate you end up in. I think that, if we have to write that down, the conclusion will be that you can't actually make a very sensible comparison, because then you're really gonna have to bring a lot of variables with you. Anyway, she can always ask a written question; that is always open to her. But there are a lot of factors underneath that have to do with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-9.u80	Can we get to the end of this term?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-9.u81	Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. The question was: do I find the high marginal pressure a problem and can something be done about it? I believe that Mr De Jong has tabled a motion on this matter. I think it has been adopted and the cabinet is still studying how to deal with it, so I would say: look how we are going to react to this motion. We have already had an interrupting debate on the guarantee that pension amounts will not be reduced. I just had that in an interrupting debate. Mr De Jong asked: why do we do this here and not at the WTP? He actually wanted this proposal to be dealt with by the WTP. That doesn't belong here, that's his thesis. In any system, this is precisely about solving a number of bottlenecks that are now widely experienced. It is not only a spearhead that is related to the WTP; it is also an issue that is at the moment. So I think it is all the more important to deal with it now and arrange it separately. We have also discussed the timely information. We have also discussed this in the debate on the interruption, so I think I have dealt with all the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-9.u82	I think so, too. Very good. I don't think there's a need for a second term, do you? No? Oh, Mr. Overzigt will. I was hoping he hadn't heard. I shall now give the floor to Mr Omtzigt. I hope he can keep it short and pointy, that the Minister can reply briefly and pointy and that we can then proceed with Mr Van Kent's own-initiative proposal. I call Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-9.u83	A President of the Chamber who hopes that a Member of Parliament will not listen to the texts that the Minister says... mwah. But you said something else; that's right. Thank you to the Minister for the clear answers. This bill seems small, but there are some serious problems underneath it. We'll definitely come back and talk about the She explained it clearly here, but at another time, we need to find out where it's at other points. The Nibud has been pretty clear. That said, when people pay off pensions, they really have no idea what is happening. That came up with a report on 30 March. In the report it mentions two options. One of the options is: make sure it doesn't work in any supplement. I say: make sure it is automatic; take it with you in the so-called PANA message, so that the surcharges are not automatically reduced. The second option it gives is to set up a final levy on it. That means you're paying a fixed tax rate, no matter what. That's a solution we use here more often. If a healthcare bonus is established here in the House of Representatives, we are also afraid of all kinds of income-dependent schemes. So what do we do? Then we'll get it under a final charge. That is why these employers also received €1,800, so that €800 could be brought under the final charge. That's why I'd like to table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the effects of surcharges, tax rebates and other income-dependent schemes could lead to an effective marginal pressure of about 80% in the Netherlands;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that, in any form of repurchase, the participant retains at least 50% net of the purchase price and, in achieving this, to consider the Nibud proposals (a final charge, special income qualification for all supplements) as the most obvious options for their development and to submit a proposal to the Chamber within a few months,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Omtzigt.]] [[She's getting No. kst-36004-8]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-9.u84	Mr. Chairman. I understand that revision interest is a complicated thing and that we will come back to that in the second term. I'm gonna file a motion, but I'm gonna hold it before the Minister asks for it. It's a point we've been discussing here over the past ten years, like, three, four times. It happens to very few people, but when it happens to you, it's so incredibly sour that I think we should do something about it. This motion also applies: if there is another way to achieve the same thing, then it is up to me. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that for a very specific group the revision interest rate is abolished and that it does not have a budgetary impact;]] [[noting that the government intends to eliminate differences between the second and third pillars;]] [[calls on the Government to abolish the revision rate for the redemption of pension products for people with benefits in the Participation Act,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Omtzigt.]] [[She's getting No. kst-36004-9]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-9.u85	Yes, because I think the chance that we can have a total discussion here... This can also be done after the Minister's second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-9.u86	That you'll hold the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-9.u87	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-9.u88	Then it's just filed.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-9.u89	Then it's filed. I don't want to make it any more complicated than it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-9.u90	No, it scared me again.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-9.u91	That's the last thing I want on my conscience today!
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-9.u92	You like complicated things; I know that. Submitting and holding a motion would be another unique thing. Anyway, that didn't happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-9.u93	I like making very surprising proposals to upset Presidents, but I haven't found anything tonight, Mr President. This was my input to this bill. I think we are going to have a lot of discussions here about pensions in the coming period.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-9.u94	We look forward to that. Once again, I note that there is no need for a second deadline for the other Members. Can the Minister answer immediately?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-9.u95	Sorry, chairman, I was just reading the motions. I couldn't have written them that fast. The motion for a resolution refers to part No. 8 invites the Government to ensure that the participant retains at least 50% net of the repurchase price in any form of repurchase. The motion also calls for the Nibud's proposals to be used in its elaboration. The Nibud's proposal also saw the bill Amount suddenly and not on this bill. This motion is quite absolutely asking for at least 50% net. That's a pretty big deal. That also has financial consequences, because that is what tax matters are for, for example, around the final levy. That's what it says here. As regards the qualification of special income for all supplements, this is now the case with the rental allowance. I have indicated that it is very good to look at how this is working out in practice. I made a commitment to communicate very well with the pension practitioners about the consequences that this can have, so that the participant can have a balanced judgment. I think this is only about net pensions... Right? You mean buy all the pension?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-9.u96	Mr Omtzigt would like to explain it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-9.u97	With the net pensions, you have nothing to do with taxes anyway. You also have to deal with people who generally have quite a high income. In addition, almost everyone is left with almost 100% of the purchase price. We are talking about all voluntary redemptions, small and large. We shouldn't make a distinction in that. We want people to have a minimum of that. If you say that can't be 50% but 45%, then I'm also recommending, but I think it would be nice to have a lower limit.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-9.u98	Then you'll go further. In the case of net pensions, you will indeed not experience so much tax consequences of this, but possibly in the supplements. Let us say that there are small net family pensions or interest rates. I know what category these people are in. These are not usually the people who have the smallest jobs and are the lowest paid, but theoretically they could. But if we are also talking about all gross pensions, and we are saying 'this must be left to be done anyway', then this can also produce quite a lot of calculative behaviour for people who say 'yes, this can actually be more beneficial to me', and it does not necessarily have to be about the people with the lowest incomes or the smallest pensions. Then it really goes on, because you really do have budgetary consequences. It is a little faint, but I must always say that there is no cover for this proposal either, because this may have consequences for increases or taxation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-9.u99	So?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-9.u100	Dissuade.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-9.u101	Fine. Then there is the second motion, in part No. 9.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-9.u102	The second motion, which has therefore been held, calls on the government to apply for revision interest...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-9.u103	No, she hasn't been apprehended.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-9.u104	Oh, he hasn't been apprehended yet. Oh, okay. "Requests the government to abolish revision interest for the purchase of pension products for people with a benefit in the Participation Act." A nuance on the need to buy: there are a number of thresholds in it. Because it is not the case that anyone who reports to the Participation Act with a pension, a accumulated annuity, should immediately turn this in. There are therefore a number of conditions, for example that the gross value does not exceed €254.200. So that's quite a threshold. It shall also be disregarded if the application for assistance has been made for more than five years or if at least some investment has been made in recent years of no more than €6,000, and if it has not been postponed in the last five years before the annuity date. I think that there are quite a lot of guarantees in this, which means that the people with, let's say, what smaller pensions are not going to be directly affected. So in that light, I would advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-9.u105	Very good. Thanks to the Minister. So much for this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-9.u106	On Tuesday we shall vote on the two motions. I shall suspend for one moment and then we shall look at Mr Van Kent's initiative law.
