ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u1	We will continue the two-minute debate on social security at school in one smooth movement. The committee debate took place on 9 March. A warm word of welcome to the Minister. The first speaker from the Chamber is Mr Peters of the CDA Group. The floor is up to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We're talking about social security in schools. This is an important subject for many people at home and for many people in class, who sometimes have to do with social insecurity. It is quite natural that we here in the Chamber are trying to really do something about it, although it is extremely difficult and sometimes we come up with solutions that I think are: I do not see that happening. One of them is a hotline. That sounds good, because it sounds like a real action, like something we can do, but the risk of that is that people in schools think: you know what, I'm not going to fix it here, I'll just call The Hague directly. I don't think it's a wise plan. That's why this motion. "Remember before you begin," her name is. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Minister intends to set up a social insecurity hotline;]] [[Whereas schools should be structured and structured in a safe and learning culture, not on paper, but in terms of tangible human behavior;]] [[Whereas a national hotline is not going to contribute to the internal conversation on social security and that there is even a risk that it will only lead to additional work, increase polarisation and distrust;]] [[Calls on the Government to first examine, by means of an implementation test at schools, whether a national social insecurity hotline will contribute to reducing bullying in the classroom;]] [[calls on the Government to inform the Court of Justice of this before a social insecurity hotline is set up,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Peters.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29240-125]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u3	This motion is signed by Peters, and that's me.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u4	Thank you. That's good. The last speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mr Van Meenen of the D66 Group. Mr Kwint is shouting all kinds of things as you step forward. He's a little bald right now. I think he's nervous for Easter weekend.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u5	Right now? Well, you can say the last five years! But he's kind of cute, too. Mr. Chairman. A few weeks ago we discussed this important issue, social security. I saw a strong minister in that debate, who wants to get to work quickly on the agreements contained in the coalition agreement. That is very important, so that every child gets good and safe education. I have two more questions. How quickly can the Chamber expect the drafting of the paragraph on social security from the coalition agreement? Can the Minister outline a timetable for this? Which appointments is he gonna work with first? In addition, I would like to ask again about my motion on the Inspection of Education, in order to give that order to always work on individual reports and signals of insecurity. I have once again received signals from parents, education and balance sheets that this still does not always happen. Parents and students do not get feedback when reporting. So I'd like to hear from the Minister what he's going to do about this. Can he, for example, share with the Chamber in conversation with the inspection and its results? If so, what other steps does he take? Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u6	Thank you. Mr Van Meenen was the last speaker on the side of the Chamber. The Minister is able to comment immediately on the motion and answer both of Mr Van Meenen's questions, but the motion is still on its way. The floor is up to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u7	Mr President, thank you. There is a motion by Mr Peters. I would also like to thank the Chamber for the debate, because I think it was one of my first debates and also the introduction to the committee. I think it was also an important issue to discuss. I also understand Mr Peters' concern. In my view, we must also avoid putting all kinds of things up with administrative burdens and without solutions. So I agree with you. The aim is, of course, to help pupils and parents, not to burden them, or even schools. I remember having a conversation about whether it's necessary at all. Are you actually gonna take it away from the school? Do you make it too easy not to solve the problem where it is needed, but actually throw it over the fence? Then it becomes a sort of fence point and that is not the intention. That is why we also said in the debate that we are looking carefully at the existing hotlines, because that is also important. Then we look at what such a new hotline should and should not add. The questions put by Mr Peters in the motion are also helpful in this respect. We must therefore make effective use of the existing and join forces. We also need to make things clearer. I see it more as a support point that helps parents and students when they feel that they can no longer do so in other places. At the moment, as I said, I am also talking to students and parents to hear exactly what that hotline should look like. I agree with Mr Peters that we must do this carefully. After these conversations, I know exactly what it takes. I would like to fill in the call for implementation in this way. Then I want to see as soon as possible after these talks what works and at whatever time it can. Then I'll try to get that hotline in the air as soon as possible. That's what I promised. As far as I am concerned, this cannot be done quickly enough, but I am happy to accept Mr Peters' requests. So I can use that to give the motion judgment Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u8	That is nice in itself, but I would like to ask a very enlightening question. The minister says he talks to students and parents about what adds such a hotline to the other hotlines we have. The danger is twofold. If we get an extra hotline, what do we do with all the other hotlines that seem to be there? Two. My motion explicitly calls for talks with schools as well. Parents say, "There are three hotlines. I've complained everywhere and nobody does anything." Now there will be a new hotline and the Minister will probably do it himself. Parents will say: that adds something to me. For the school, I think you could say: that adds nothing but misery. So I would also like to ask for an explicit discussion with schools about what it is doing there.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u9	I'll give you that last word. I think that's very wise. On Mr Peters' first point, I think we should avoid some kind of theoretical discussion about hotlines. I'm older myself, but I hear from other parents that sometimes it's really complicated to know exactly where to go. I think it's up to the school to make that very clear. That's what we do with the Social Security Monitor. It was a question from among others the PvdA to explicitly include the young people of LAKS. We're gonna do more than that. This will give us an insight into the schools where they can and can't do it. That is without prejudice to the fact that sometimes there are situations where you do not want to discuss it in the school, but you do want to have a place where you can. Then you've got trust inspectors from the inspection. You also have the ordinary right to complain. But we kind of shredded that. We're going to see how we can make that clearer for parents and students. That's how we're gonna start that conversation, and then we're gonna roll something out. Then we will share that with you here in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u10	Fine. I'd like that. Mr Van Meenen's two questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u11	"Is there a plan?" asks Mr Van Meenen. We have a lot of points on social security in the coalition agreement. What are the deadlines the Minister is thinking about? We have made quite a lot of promises for the summer, such as the note on the report on administrative instruments. Hopefully it'll follow soon. I also mention the policy response to the opinion of the Education Council on Article 23, the letter on the declarations of identity and the letter on Gomarus. That's all coming before the summer. Around the summer I inform the Chamber about the advice of the national lawyer on informal education and I also share the policy agenda we have on anti-democratic trends in education and in informal education. In September, I will send a letter to the Chamber on social security, in which I deal, among other things, with the other issues in the coalition agreement, such as the hotline, which we have just mentioned, the intensification of teacher supervision and safety. I will also mention the obligation to notify social security, the French plague law, the extension of monitoring and the improvement of the complaints system. I promised, and we will send it to the Chamber. In doing so, I hope that I have answered the questions about planning satisfactorily. Then the individual signals and reports. All signals entering the inspection shall be handled and weighed. Feedback is important. In this way, we have once again brought to the attention of the inspection the motion that Mr Van Meenen refers to as an important signal. It is also in the process of looking again at the organisation of their customer contact and the contact point of the trust inspectors for the intensification of supervision. This should be in line with the development of the hotline that we ourselves have and with the changes we are going to make in the complaints system. I shall therefore include the motion. Signals entering individually are, of course, always worrying. You also have to deal with them, or through the inspection, or through the complaints committees. I understand the need for insight, to make it clearer and also to know that it is being followed. So I will take that into account in the elaboration, which we will return to the Chamber before the summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u12	Fine. Mr Van Meenen nods, so he is satisfied with the answers. Mr. Kwint, you weren't on my list of speakers, but you have something to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u13	Yeah, because I'm a little confused about that motion. I am fine with you coming out of the explanation together, but we have a speaker who says he doesn't want a hotline at all and a minister who says he wants it and a motion saying that such a hotline is not really going to help and that there should be a test first and the Chamber should be informed first. Now you're in agreement. In the end, I must advise my group to vote for or against this motion and I am now a little confused.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u14	We don't want to.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u15	I'm confused about how apocryphal this motion is explained.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u16	"Apocrief," hard word.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u17	A piece of exegesis.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u18	I understand Mr. Kwint. Our ambition is in the coalition agreement. My observation is that we have arranged a lot of things in many places, but that it is either not always known or does not always come together. That's just a concern. We have said that we are going to bring that together by having the conversation with parents, which Mr Peters added, and with students to see how we can implement it, so that it fits in. Then I see it, as I said, as a kind of support point for parents and students. This is how I have seen the request here. It may be a bit cynical if it is going to work, but he is asking students and parents to check the execution, how it could work and to inform the Chamber of what we and the schools have done with it. Oh, my gosh. I heard the cue just in time from Mr Kwint. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u19	Okay. Then we're here. So much for this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u20	I shall suspend a single moment and then we shall continue the debate on appropriate education. The vote will take place on Tuesday.
