ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I welcome the Prime Minister, the members of the Chamber and the people in the public gallery. We are going to have the debate on the European Summit of 24 and 25 March 2022 and on the NATO Council of 24 March 2022. We have 15 speakers. We shall proceed to the first term of the Chamber. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mr Sjoerdsma of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u2	Mr. Chairman. Romanchenko was 96 years old, survived four concentration camps and died when a Russian rocket landed on his house. That's week four of Putin's "denazification" invasion. In Marioepol, a city larger than Utrecht, the whole city is leveled. Russian-speaking residents are trapped like rats. [[Sentence could not be parsed: Ze moeten straathonden doden voor eten en dat is week vier van Poetin die opkomt voor Russischsprekenden.]] The extreme violence is also an expression of frustration, because military Russia seems to be making virtually no progress anymore. It suffers great losses. That is also my first question to the Prime Minister: how does he indicate the current military situation in Ukraine? Mr. Chairman. This Russian aggression and war crimes must be stopped. D66 therefore believes that we should continue to supply weapons, as well as more powerful anti-aircraft weapons, such as the S-300 systems that NATO fellow members have Slovakia and Turkey. This could enable Ukraine itself to ensure that Russia no longer has access to Ukraine's airspace with aircraft and helicopters. This allows Ukraine to de facto set up a no-fly zone itself. I ask the Prime Minister whether this is on the table at the NATO summit and whether the Netherlands would support it. Mr. Chairman. Humanitarian aid must also be provided. As far as I am concerned, this is where the absence of the UN stands. Of course, the Security Council has been blocked, and that is primarily due to Russia and to some extent China. But what is preventing the Secretary-General of the United Nations from taking on a role of his own, from fulfilling his own role, from calling not only for diplomacy, but also for humanitarian access, for aid, to address Russia, for example, in the VR resolution of 2018? The Netherlands has been a cosponsor of this and Russia itself has also designated starvation as a war crime. I would like a response from the Prime Minister: how does he see the role of the UN? Mr. Chairman. We also need to work on sanctions, not only for more sanctions but also for smarter sanctions. We have rightly taken very far-reaching measures in these first weeks of the conflict, but we must now include them in a political strategy. That's what my questions to the Prime Minister are about. On the one hand, what sanctions does the Netherlands want, or does Prime Minister Putin want, in the event of further violence and further war crimes against civilians? Is he thinking about an oil boycott? Is he thinking about a port boycott? On the other hand, what exactly does Putin have to do to get sanction relief? Is that a cease-fire? Is that a peace agreement? Is that complete withdrawal? Or, for example, are these the demands that we, as Western countries, have, in other words, the withdrawal of Russia's occupying forces, not only from Ukraine but also from other states, such as Moldova and Georgia, the cessation of violence on the European continent and not the use of chemical weapons? Madam President. Finally, in this block, how do we relate to Putin? It is always dangerous to look hypothetically and too far ahead, but suppose Ukraine comes to a comparison with Russia, partly voluntarily and perhaps partly forced. We don't know, but if that happens, is that enough to get those sanctions off the table? My group does not think so. We think it is dangerous to see the future in a normal way with Putin, but we also see that European unity is the most important thing. So I also ask the Prime Minister about the tension we are seeing here. Mr. Chairman. How do we separate China from Russia, given the EU-China summit that is coming? What means will the European Union use to achieve this? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. The existing sanctions should work better. The cabinet has now frozen EUR 400 million in funds. That is good and good, but as far as my group is concerned, we need more coordination, more transparency and also a change in the sanction law. As far as coordination is concerned, first of all, the personal sanctions of the European Union and the United States are not sufficiently harmonised. For example, the European Union has sanctioned Abramovich, but the United States has not. And with the United States, there is an oligarch on the list that owns houses in Finland, but not in the European Union. This is how holes are created, allowing these people to escape the dance. Here's what I'm asking the Prime Minister. How is the cabinet going to improve coordination between the different institutions? Can the Prime Minister ensure that packages are better aligned between the European Union and the United States, so that these holes for oligarchs disappear? Is Turkey the prime minister just visited Turkey and Erdogan also asked to join the sanctions? And who is actually responsible within the European Union for effectively enforcing these sanctions? Mr. Chairman. Then there's the law amendment I was talking about. The cabinet also mentions in several letters that only financial institutions and trust offices are obliged to report their relationships with sanctioned persons. Companies or entities with sanctioned owners that have assets as assets on the balance sheet are excluded from their scope. And capital in the form of real estate, yachts, shares or other assets literally slips through the loopholes of the law. I call on the Cabinet to amend the law on this point and to consider adding supervision and a hotline for companies and entities. I'd like a response. Finally, I see Mr Van der Lee standing on this point, Mr President. Putin has just announced that gas payments should be made in roubles. If that call is heeded, it will undoubtedly lead to the currency becoming more worthy of the rouble and the effects of sanctions being reduced. I'd like a response from the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u3	You did see someone standing by for an interruption. That's Mr Van der Lee. We haven't agreed on how many interruptions we'd use. I would like to suggest three interruptions in two. Agreed? Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u4	So that's six questions. I'm going to put one to Mr. Sjoerdsma. Last week we also talked to the Foreign Minister about sanctions in the small group of super-rich oligarchs. If it's only financial, you're gonna get them pretty limited. The United Kingdom has now introduced what I also advocated last week. Shouldn't you include the immediate family members of these oligarchs in that penalty list? It is through them that capital is also channelled away. It also penetrates their own world much more if it also affects the family. What does D66 think about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u5	That is a good question, which, as far as I am concerned, cannot be answered entirely in black and white. On the one hand, I see very much what Mr Van der Lee is saying here, namely that family members are indeed being used. It's kind of a ball-ball game: I'm on the penalty list, but my wife, my kids, my cousin and my uncle aren't, so that way I can escape some of the sanctions. At the same time, part of our rule of law is based on the simple fact that you can only be responsible for what you have done. On the one hand, we weigh here the effectiveness of sanctions and, on the other hand, certain constitutional values. I would like to say two things, operationally, to what Mr Van der Lee is proposing. One. I am very curious whether the Cabinet sees any possibility of acting, if there is evidence that these family members are also involved in these abuses. My group would be very much in favour of that. Two. But let us also ensure that that seems to me to be an even greater task at the moment.... that we are also tackling property in the form of real estate, yachts and shares, which is now slipping through the loopholes of the law simply because there is no supervision. Those two things would favor D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u6	That's it. Please continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u7	Mr. Chairman. Then the NATO summit, the Strategic Compass, the protection of our territory. The Strategic Compass has rightly been adopted. Steps are being taken regarding military headquarters, an intervention force, joint procurement and training missions. But the question is, of course, whether that is sufficient in the longer term. Now we can boast of a huge, strong NATO presence in the east and count on a president in the United States, Biden, who appreciates the transatlantic bond and is willing to make sacrifices for it. But the question is whether this is still the case in 2024, in the next US presidential election. So, looking at European defence capabilities, our hard power, is also the question of whether we are sufficiently equipped for a scenario in which we are still dealing with an aggressive Russia but a less cooperative United States in 2024. That brings me to the question to the Prime Minister about what steps in the European defence field he thinks we should take in view of that scenario, that doom scenario, in order to ensure that we can protect our own territory. What will be the focus of this NATO summit? And is there any news about the execution of my motion on defence money, which has been widely supported by the Chamber? Mr. Chairman. The leap that we must take in the defence field must also be made elsewhere, namely in the area of asylum and in the area of foreign affairs. First, asylum. First of all, I would like to congratulate Poland, which is now receiving almost 2 million refugees. You can only take a deep bow to the efforts of society there. They rightly need to be compensated financially for this. That's what the Prime Minister says. But I ask him to guarantee three things. One. No funds to Poland that Poland is not entitled to because of violations of the rule of law. Two. I believe that funding for the reception of refugees should also mean that we see a breakthrough in the European Asylum and Migration Pact. Of course, the Eastern European Member States in particular have been blocking the past. Three. So let us organise the financial support so that the money is used for refugee shelter rather than for the election campaign of the PiS party. Mr. Chairman. The third leap we have to make is in the field of foreign policy. Where we have seen enormous consensus in Europe over the last few weeks, we now see Orbán threatening again with vetos. I would like to hear from the Prime Minister how he continues to work and work towards a majority decision to abolish the veto. Because if there's a time to move forward, it's now. I look forward to the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u8	Thank you, Mr Jasper van Dijk of the SP has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u9	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Putin's war continues and is becoming increasingly ruthless. The number of victims is increasing, as is the number of refugees. At the same time, it seems that the Russian advance is being stopped. This could affect the negotiations. We have seen the Prime Minister many times this week with other political leaders. Can he tell us anything about the progress of the negotiations? It would be the most beautiful thing if we reached a ceasefire. Mr. Chairman. It is quite right that sanctions should be imposed. The execution does raise questions, starting with the freezing of assets of Russian oligarchs. In the Netherlands, it would amount to no less than EUR 45 billion. The government does not go beyond freezing EUR 400 million. That's an improvement. Last week it was 6 million euros. Then it was 200 million euros. Then it was 400 million euros. But it is far from that EUR 45 billion. If I compare it with Italy, 1 billion, Belgium, 10 billion, and France, even over 20 billion, then I fear that the Netherlands will even be able to make a muddle. Does the Prime Minister see that risk? Does he recognize with me that the impression is created that oligarchs in our country get away with it very easily? What is the government going to do to improve this? Will you ensure that there is clear direction on the implementation of these sanctions? There's gonna be a working party. I read that. I'd really like the guarantee that we won't let those oligarchs get away with the fragmentation here. Is the government actively looking for oligarchs? Will the Netherlands participate in the transatlantic task force that hunts oligarchs? What about the removal of EU gold passports purchased by oligarchs? What does the government do against concealing money flows? The Netherlands is in place eight of the so-called confidentiality index. That's very worrying. So we know that there are Russian oligarchs here, but they manage to hide their money. That's the bottom line. Of course, we shouldn't have that. In short, the government has my blessing for cleaning up the Zuidas. Mr. Chairman. Then there's another matter of concern. It concerns cooperation in the fields of foreign affairs, defence and other areas, and decision-making in Europe. The war has led to plans in Europe suddenly being rushed through, under the heading of 'never waste a good crisis'. Careful decision-making remains behind. I would like to ask the Prime Minister if he acknowledges that we should not rush into this, that no decisions will be taken that you will regret later. Take last week's Versailles declaration, a declaration on which parliaments had too little say, on further integration and investment in defence, economics and energy; things that have actually been on the Brussels list for years. On Thursday it will be decided on the Strategic Compass, on European defence. During the war, the piece was considerably tightened. It says, for example, that there should be room for private investment in weapons. Can the Prime Minister answer that? 'Cause what does it say here? It says here that Jan and alleman are called to invest in weapons. Something we, I think, are very careful about. We've got the Fair Bankmark. Banks have done a lot of work not to invest in weapons. And now, in the preliminary conclusions of the European Council, it says that this must be possible. I can't imagine the entire coalition agreeing with that. Or take the Peace Fund, where in a short time EUR 1 billion has been released for arms. Here again, hardly any parliamentary control, while the budget for that fund, which was initially 450 million, doubled last week to EUR 1 billion. And by doing so, the budget was exceeded. On this point, you would expect at least parliamentary assent, as is the case in Germany, for example.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u10	Mr. Chairman. I was actually waiting for the moment that I expected at the introduction, but it did not come, so perhaps it is not at all possible that Mr Van Dijk would say on behalf of the SP: we were actually wrong; we should indeed help those Ukrainians with weapons; we should ensure that they can defend themselves against that Russian invasion. I would ask Mr Van Dijk to come to that moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u11	I have actually said that in so many words, of course. We are having yet another debate in which I say: this is a terrible war and we must do everything we can to prevent it. And I am working on all the points that we are dealing with here, including sanctions, for example.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u12	That is, of course, in no way an answer to my question. We saw Mrs Marijnissen......................................................................................................................................................................................................... Because that was, and I quote her, "escalating." So I ask the SP, which is actually standing here without any prescription for help for Ukraine, to come back to that decision. And yet to say to all those Ukrainians, who are now trapped like rats in Marioepol, who are being hunted, who have to live under daily air sirens and bombardments and artillery fire, who also want to join those parties who say: okay, we also want to put arms supplies against that violence, in the name of the freedom and security of that people.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u13	It is wrong what Mr Sjoerdsma says. We are not against the current arms supplies from the Netherlands. And that's what Mrs Marijnissen just said. We'll warn you about escalation. We'll warn you about military interference. We warn against a no-fly zone from NATO. I don't think you think that's a good idea, even if you never know for how long. So that's the point, of course. And you have to keep looking at what kind of deliveries you can or can't agree to. But I very much agree that we must do everything we can to help the people of Ukraine, who are horribly attacked by Putin. And you do me very little, Mr Sjoerdsma, if you say I don't have a prescription for that, because I'm talking about sanctions, I'm talking about negotiations, I'm talking about humanitarian aid. So that's really not your level, I'd like to say. Mr. Chairman. You can see that a European defence union is being rushed into being. Prevent democracy from becoming the loser here. Ensure an open and careful decision-making process. Mr. Chairman. In addition to the Euro Summit, there is also a NATO summit. What's the stake in that? And is good decision-making guaranteed here too? Finally, on the refugees. We had a good debate this morning with the Secretary of State. He does a lot of work to help refugees in the Netherlands and also in Europe. There is a huge demand for shelters, and so we must also take unorthodox measures. I would ask the Prime Minister to look at our own options. That means: do you also look at the state real estate, at the ministries, at the European Parliament and at the House of Representatives, so that we really free up every place we can make available to refugees from Ukraine?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u14	Thank you, Mrs Kamminga of the VVD will have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u15	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It has been almost a year since I made my maiden speech in a debate in preparation for an EU summit. I spoke, among other things, of the importance of a united and effective European Union, which invests in strategic autonomy, and of my background in security issues. I could not have guessed at that time, I do not think that we would be standing here less than a year later, while there is a terrible war on the European continent. A war in which a country invades a neighbouring country with violence for no reason at all. We are now in the fourth week of that war. The situation is getting worse every day in cities like Marioepol, with as one of so many lows the bombing of the theatre with civilians and children. The resistance and fighting skills of the Ukrainians deserve our great respect. It is impressive to see how the Ukrainians fight for their freedom and their country. Last week, albeit digitally, I took part in the Council of Europe. That's where Ukrainians told themselves what they were going through. Politicians who travelled freely and safely to discussions with other parliamentarians a month ago now had to do their story from a bunker. It is therefore entirely right that the Russian politicians who do this to them should be excluded from that council. That is a historic but inevitable decision, and as far as I am concerned, it is right. Mr. Chairman. Let us hope that the pressure of the international community on Russia and Putin, combined with that determination and resilience of the Ukrainians, will ensure that Russia stops its aggression quickly. It is therefore a good thing that both parties are still on the table together, no matter how difficult that may be, especially for Ukraine. That must be unreal: while your country is under attack, you must sit down with that same party and listen to their demands. Mr. Chairman. I would also like to express my appreciation from this place for all the Dutch who are contributing to helping the Ukrainians, whether it is about donating money, collecting clothes or taking a refugee into their homes. It is heartwarming to see all these initiatives, and it is good that the cabinet is also committed to good care and that Ukrainians who want to do so could get to work right away. While I am working on compliments: also a compliment to the cabinet, but certainly also to the officials and to the Dutch military, who are undoubtedly working day and night. They are taking everything out of the closet right now to increase pressure on Russia, help Ukraine and keep the Netherlands and our NATO allies safe. Mr. Chairman. It is important to maximise the pressure on Russia and Putin. We really need to do everything we can to stop the war and the violence. The VVD has therefore repeatedly argued for a sanctions package to be as robust as possible. I read in the annotated agenda that there are no new sanctions on the table during the Council. But does that also mean that there is no longer any talk, for example, of banning Russian ships in European ports or of an oil boycott? The VVD agrees with the cabinet that we need to keep an eye on security of supply and that rising global oil prices can also play into Russia's hands. But would a construction like the US used in Iran in 2012 be an option, for example? So I am referring to a reduction of imports and the placing of funds on, for example, a third party account. This will at least prevent Russia from using the funds to finance the war. Mr. Chairman. Enforcement is crucial for the effective functioning of sanctions. That is why I ask the Prime Minister what scope he still sees in making better use of the existing instruments. Colleagues have already referred to this. For my group, the 400 million in funds that we have now frozen, is a little thin on the billions that seem to be flowing in or through the Netherlands. How does the Prime Minister view that? This afternoon, we read that Putin intends to pay countries for Russian gas with rubles in order to stop the price drop. Can the Prime Minister confirm that we are not cooperating in this and that, if necessary, the banking sanctions will be extended? Another condition for effective outcome of sanctions is that as many countries as possible join. What opportunities does the Prime Minister see for further countries to do so? In particular, I would like to draw attention to Serbia's attitude. That is a candidate country with which we have recently taken additional steps. But Serbia seems to have two faces in this area. On the one hand, it is really hopeful and hopeful that they have recently voted in favour of a resolution like this for the first time in the UN, but I also note that the country is not yet participating in the EU sanctions. How does the Prime Minister weigh that, especially in view of the new requirements in the accession framework? Does that perhaps give us cause to look again critically at the recent additional steps taken? Mr. Chairman. The situation in Ukraine has reaffirmed the importance of a united and decisive EU, as well as the importance of increasing our strategic autonomy in areas such as energy and food security. It is also good that the EU has maintained that unity and remains united. It's been different. In my group's view, developments in Ukraine underline once again the need for European countries to invest in strong defence. Better cooperation is crucial here, but the crisis also makes it clear to us that NATO is really the cornerstone of our collective security. The EU should facilitate this as far as possible, for example by speeding up cooperation through military mobility wherever possible and facilitating the joint development of weapons systems. In this respect, the Strategic Compass adopted by the Council is a good basis for this. I am also pleased that it has taken the starting point for European defence capabilities to be complementary to NATO. In this sense, it is also appropriate that the NATO Summit and the EU Summit should be mutually exclusive this time. What does the Prime Minister expect from the NATO summit? Are additional troops being sent to the eastern border, for example? I would also like to continue to emphasise the importance of maintaining the supply of arms to Ukraine. Can the Prime Minister assure us that this will continue to be the case? Another issue that we cannot ignore in this context is energy security and reducing the dependence of a country such as Russia. I referred to that earlier. It is good that the Commission has come up with the RePowerEU plan, but we hear differences of opinion between Member States. Can the Prime Minister say a little more about the EU's force field on this point? In the annotated agenda, the VVD reads the cabinet commitment. She'll be able to follow them in her own right. But the VVD does not read about the funding of this plan, while rumours about a new fund à la RRF are getting louder. Can the Prime Minister comment on the Commission's commitment? Is it true that a number of Member States will come forward with a proposal for such a fund during the Council? Does the Prime Minister then agree with the VVD that, for possible funding, we should look at already available resources and instruments? I assume that this will be the line of the cabinet, but I would also like to recall Mr Omtzigt's recently adopted motion. Although priority number one must, of course, be to stop military violence as quickly as possible, safe humanitarian corridors are vital until then. It is essential that we continue to insist on this as an EU and as an international community. Does the Prime Minister share that opinion? What is the EU's commitment to this? Mr President, I am on my last subject, but I also see Mr Van Houwelingen standing.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u16	I also see Mr Van Houwelingen standing. So I'm just checking to see if he wants to do an interruption right now. Let's do that. An interruption by Mr Van Houwelingen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u17	Last week we were very happy to see that the VVD supported our motion against the creation of a European army. I have a question for the VVD. The documents also refer to the creation of an EU intervention force of 5,000 men. It will then be paid and controlled from Brussels from 2025. Isn't that already a European army? That's actually my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u18	Thank you for this question. It is true that you have always heard that in our speeches, as a VVD, we are not in favour of an EU army. We believe that this is a national competence and we believe that decisions should be taken here in the national parliament on the deployment of Dutch military forces. That is why my colleague, Mr Valstar, who is our Defence spokesperson, explicitly asked for this during the committee debate last week. At that time, the Minister of Defence confirmed once again that prior to such an effort, the Dutch Parliament will always be involved. I think that's a good sign. At the same time, I hope we can all see that Mr Van Houwelingen, too, is right that we in the European Union should cooperate better and that such an intervention force of 5,000 soldiers is fundamentally different from an EU defence.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u19	Just a follow-up question. Why is that fundamentally different? You say that the countries must decide on the use of such power. The same applies, of course, if we want to deploy our army. Then we must also debate this in Parliament. That power is 5,000 men tall. The Luxembourg army is just over 1,000 men tall. What makes this not an army for you? In other words, what should happen to make it truly a full army?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u20	The question is: what should happen before the VVD?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u21	What do I find fundamentally different about that? When you talk about an EU army, you talk about, for example, that we would only have an army in the Netherlands and that the Germans would then, for example, do the Air Force. We stand by the fact that the Netherlands has all the military parts in its entirety. You can work together fine, but if you are going to participate in a mission and broadcast Dutch soldiers, then you have to decide nationally. And that's what's still ahead here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u22	I'm just trying to understand. So it is only when all parts of the military are working in such an intervention force that the army, the Navy and the Air Force are involved that there is a European army? Let me get this straight. Is that the criterion for you?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u23	And that question is again through the chairman to the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u24	I will try to make it even clearer, with an apology that I was unclear in my earlier contribution. I mean in this way: a European army, which we as a VVD are not in favour of, would mean that cooperation within Europe would go so far that each Member State no longer has all the military parts independently and that you would no longer have the final decision in the Dutch national parliament. That would really be a bridge too far for us. But that's different from working together. That is what we are doing in NATO at the moment. We are also working together with all kinds of different countries and Member States, and we are also pooling our military capabilities. So I think that is fundamentally different from what is now in the Strategic Compass.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u25	I also see Mr Van Haga interrupting.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u26	I would like to continue with Mr Van Houwelingen's question. The VVD's electoral programme states that "cooperation with like-minded countries within NATO and the EU rather than the abstract view of a European army." The question is, of course, whether we are not slowly but surely being messed up there. We have all these 60 PESCO projects, we have a European Peace Facility, we have that 5,000-man mini-army. It's a sliding bowl. The VVD is the anchor in this Parliament not to come to such a European army, but I wonder if the VVD is not afraid when it sees all this. We're gonna slide down there slowly anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u27	I have a different assessment of that than Mr Van Haga. I'll stay alert, so you can still see my party as anchor. We are not moving to a European army. I do, of course, recognise that in all my speeches, whether on this subject or on another subject, you will hear that we remain critical of this sliding scale and that we must continue to keep our beacons. I think this is a useful, necessary and also sensible step for the European Union, and we want to take our own security and our own responsibility as the European Union seriously. I agree with Mr Van Haga that we should be alert. I think it was Mr Van Dijk who said 'under a crisis we must prevent everything from becoming liquid'. I certainly think that applies, and I will stay alert to that. I've always learned that under pressure you have to have a warm heart, but especially a cool head. That's what I want to keep in this crisis.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u28	BVNL has argued for this since the start of this crisis. I am very pleased that the VVD voted in favour of the motion to rule that out. But EU foreign chief Josep Borrell cooks with a European defence force of 50 000 men. And now we're gonna make a mini-army of 5,000 men. How easy is it, if you already have the instrument, to add a few people to it. Then you will have 50,000 soldiers and the VVD will have to say: if not everyone is under control and if we ourselves still have some influence, there is no European army yet. You'd have a de facto European army in your pocket, wouldn't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u29	I really don't see it that way. We really need to distinguish between working together as Member States in an EU context and an EU army. I think we should be careful to put these big labels on them and then wrap it together with all kinds of vistas. I don't see it that way. I think this is a sensible way of working together. Of course we remain critical of that, because I am not looking away from what Mr Van Haga says: beware, before you know it, you are further in it. I remain critical of that. My party remains critical of that too. But the step we are about to take does not seem to me to be a harbinger of a European army as you describe it. That is precisely why we voted in favour of your motion last week.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u30	Thank you. Then you have an interruption by Mr Sjoerdsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u31	With the Strategic Compass, we're taking quite a step: an intervention force, joint headquarters, joint missions, joint purchases. We do that together, and that's good, too. We can do this to NATO now because we have an American President who is open to this. Maybe this won't work in 2024. What does the VVD think about European defence in the coming years to ensure that we can keep our own pants off and that we are able to protect our own territory if that disaster scenario were to happen?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u32	I think it is a good development that not only the Netherlands but also many other EU countries have decided to raise their own defence budget. I think that's the sensible step. I'm happy with that route. Of course, as a VVD, we have been arguing for years to increase defence budgets. I'm okay with that. I like that trend, too. If you work together in an EU context, that is something other than that everything must be transferred to Brussels immediately. That is where the fundamental difference lies for me. The fact that we, as European Member States, invest side by side in increasing defence capacity is an important step for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u33	That's what it is for D66. This also applies to a very large part of the Chamber. There is broad support for the motion from two debates ago. The question I would like to put here is not only about investment in the armed forces, which are now doing all these countries, but also about what we in the EU will soon be able to put on the table. I am setting out a scenario in which we are still dealing with an aggressive Russia, and with a more dominant China and a US that may be absent or less positive towards the EU in 2024. What, then, should the European Union be able to do at the defence point in the VVD? That is my specific question. It's not about investing. It's about how we're gonna work together and what capabilities we're gonna have to put on the mat.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u34	I'm not the Defense Spokesman, so I find it complicated to tell you what capabilities we need to have. For me, it is about ensuring that, as Member States, all Member States within Europe increase their capacity, by definition, you have had the capacity of the EU and those Member States. Mr Sjoerdsma and I differ on the principle of whether you need to steer all this from Brussels or whether you can work together and coordinate things.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u35	Thank you. Then I'm going to the Amhaouch for an interruption as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u36	I'd like to step back. Mrs Kamminga was just talking about the funds and the question to the Prime Minister about a kind of RRF fund and how we are going to finance it. I'd like to talk a little less about the content, about the how. Does the VVD underline that we now need to consider a European recovery plan for the reconstruction of Ukraine? And that we now have to send a political signal to Putin: whatever you do, on day 1 when the war is over, we as a Europe are in favour of supporting the reconstruction of Ukraine, united in Europe. We have 27 Member States, allies. Can you support the why and the what? Then perhaps at a later date we will have the discussion about how.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u37	In this context it was about the following. The fund is about the RePowerEU agenda, but of course I understand Mr Amhaouch's question very well. Let us hope that this war is over as soon as possible and that we can think about reconstruction. We also discussed this last week in a debate with the Foreign Minister. I thought he said some sensible words about that. I think we are now behind Ukraine as one. We're helping them financially on all sides now. We'll help them militaryly. It is reasonable that once that war is over, we should put our hands on each other to see how we can get the country back on its feet. I find it rather complicated at the moment to initiate it already, because we just don't know how it goes. However, I fully agree with Mr Amhaouch that it is reasonable, even for the VVD, for if there is peace, let us hope that this will be possible as soon as possible to see how we can contribute to the country's recovery.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u38	It is often also a question of semantics: what does "a European army" mean? I do think it is important to be clear about this, even when it comes to the expectations you create for the Dutch people. What is the definition of the VVD for a European army? I'm gonna help you out, too. Is it the difference of principle that you always make the sovereign decision about the deployment of that army? If that is the case, then by definition it is not a European army. Or is it a different definition? It is, of course, useful to work together, rather than 27 countries that have 147 different weapons systems. That's not efficient. If you're working well on that, that doesn't mean you're giving up authority over the deployment of your troops. I'd like that clarity.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u39	In my opinion, I have been clear about this, but I will repeat it again. I mean, we can have a whole definition issue about the European army, but I agree with you that this is always semantics. The funny thing is that after questioning it turns out that even people who want a European army, sometimes even more on the VVD line than perhaps on the D66 line. So I fully agree with you that we need to be careful about this. For the VVD it has always been important that we as the Netherlands itself remain able to have a fully equipped armed force as a matter of fact. You may be working with other countries, but if we send Dutch soldiers somewhere into a battlefield, we should always be able to make a decision here in the national parliament. Those are really two important picket posts. I do not know if this is the debate for that, but I would like to have a longer discussion on every aspect, because I think that a lot of situations are different. Certainly in the European Union, let me say that. I also said in my speech that it should also be complementary to NATO for us.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u40	I think the political difference with some of the groups in this Chamber is that I am not talking about the right side, but rather about the progressive side, which is that I think we agree on the second point. We too want sovereignty to be preserved, in the sense that we decide on the use of Dutch troops. But if all 27 Member States are going to do the other condition of a fully equipped military force, we are going to spend double, triple, quadruple as much money, without it necessarily leading to a more effective defence of NATO and European territory. Does the VVD understand that this is a substantial difference?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u41	I understand the essential difference. I would also like to say that I have also said that cooperation between Member States is of course excellent. You can also make agreements with each other. But that is something other than doing so in the context of Brussels. So I'd like to add that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u42	Mr Van der Lee, fifth interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u43	That's special to me, isn't it? In all areas, the VVD insists on efficiency, cost awareness and ensuring that we spend those precious euros as wisely as possible. But in this area, the sky is apparently the limit. Each Member State must obviously have a completely independent military force, and on top of that, we must create all kinds of partnerships that cost money. What's the reason for that? What's with the inefficiency?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u44	I think Mr Van der Lee is making a bit of a caricature of what I have said. I think that was a lot more nuanced. This inefficiency, it's about our safety. I believe that we are working together, including in the EU context. We work bilaterally with countries. We work together in NATO. I think that is something fundamentally different from the fact that you would take a step towards a European army.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u45	Thank you. I actually want to say 'continue your speech', but there are all those who have questions. I saw Mr Eppink first.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u46	I want to be clear on this point. The whole idea of such a Rapid Deployment Capacity comes from France. France speaks of l'autonomy stratégique européenne. France means the creation of a European defence force in which Member States participate. This is done under the leadership of France, the country in the European Union with a nuclear capacity. France is trying to expand through Europe, through the EU, and to provide itself with the means to achieve this. It means that France will be in charge of this and that we will have to pay for it. It's the beginning, the first step, and it's gonna get bigger and bigger. Don't be under any illusions about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u47	I didn't hear a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u48	It's been noted.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u49	Then I will go to Mr Van Dijk for an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u50	I can go along with the caution of the VVD when it comes to giving too much power to Brussels. In that respect, we can find each other. I also agree that we can work more together. Countries can cooperate in the defence field. Then there is the question of why you should also invest billions in defence, especially if you know that Europe is already investing five times more in defence than Russia, while the Russian army is now stuck in Ukraine. Then why does the VVD require Europe to invest so much extra money in defence?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u51	I must honestly say that if Mr Van Dijk is not convinced of the importance of further investment in defence after this crisis, then I do not know what else I can say to further convince him of that. That is obvious to my group. I believe that a motion had also been adopted by this Chamber in order to invest more in it. We thought so, but this crisis only shows how important it is that we invest in security and that it is not free.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u52	That war is terrible. We agree on that and Putin must be stopped. But I didn't support that motion. That was precisely because of the arguments I just gave. It would be nice if you would take that up, namely that the European countries together already invest many times more in defence than Russia. And we are not even talking about the United States and NATO. They invest a lot more in defense. Maybe it's not in dollars. In collaboration, you might find some improvement. That call to invest billions more in defence now does not follow my party. A thrifty party like the VVD might have to think twice about that, too, wouldn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u53	As I said, we must prevent all these debates from happening again. We voted in favour of that motion for a resolution for a reason. I've already explained. I believe that we have always said that we, as the Netherlands, must do our part. I am very glad that we have already taken steps in the past period and that we are going even further into it. For me, this situation is precisely the confirmation that we need to put more on the mat.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u54	Please continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u55	I was on my last point. That is the development of the rule of law in the European Union. We almost forgot, but in previous debates we talked a lot about the rule of law. I would also like to mention it in this debate, because for me, the situation in Ukraine shows once again the importance of fundamental values, such as freedom of the press and independent institutions. I greatly appreciate the way in which, among other things, Poland and Hungary receive Ukrainian refugees without hesitation, but I remain concerned about the violation of the rule of law within the EU, especially in those countries. This week we saw the arrest of the Bulgarian former prime minister for fraud involving EU funds. This issue should not fall off the table of the VVD because of this crisis, because it directly affects the legitimacy and support of the Union. People must be able to assume that their taxpayers' money is well spent and that there is no corrupt leaders in the saddle. I hope the Prime Minister agrees with me. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I see Mrs. Piri standing.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u56	You're not done. There is an interruption by Mrs Piri of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u57	At least the PvdA agrees with this plea. But what are the consequences, according to Mrs Kamminga? What should we do with the EU's recovery funds, which we have frozen for Poland and Hungary? Do we have to deal with that more smoothly all of a sudden?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u58	As far as I'm concerned, it's not. My plea is that we talk very often in debates about countries that are not doing well. I think it is worth mentioning that a number of countries, on which we are often critical, are now showing some very good things, such as receiving refugees. My point was that this should not lead to the closing of our eyes on other themes. As far as I am concerned, they must be on the table and the line of the VVD remains the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u59	Very good to hear. This is also the line of the Labour Party. We agree on a number of occasions, especially with regard to Ukraine. Can I ask you the following? As Mrs Kamminga has just said, we must, of course, do something for the Hungarians and the Poles who are now receiving so many refugees. Then we are not even talking about a situation in which we are about to come to energy sanctions. If there are, a number of countries will, of course, be hit extra hard. I fear that internal European solidarity is a prerequisite for further sanctions. Does Mrs. Kamminga agree with me? Is she therefore in favour of setting up a new fund to show solidarity, apart from the European Recovery Fund, which we both do not want to come to for this reason?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u60	Mrs. Piri saw me smile a little. That is because the word "fund" seems to have become a magic word, especially at EU level. For every problem we have, we need a new fund. In my view, part of Mrs Piri's speech is already a bit in RePowerEU. I'm especially curious how we're gonna pay for that. We also asked the Prime Minister that question. I agree with Mrs Piri that we should not exchange one for another. I think Mr Sjoerdsma said the same thing. I believe that you were also in a committee debate this morning on the JHA Council, which also covered migration. If Poland and Hungary are doing a larger part than we can expect them to do, we must, of course, see how we can support it financially. But as far as I'm concerned, these are really separate routes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u61	Thank you, then I give the floor to Mr Amhaouch of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u62	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. They are images that will never get used to: Ukrainians trying to flee the war massively. The image of a woman and her two children killed by Russian mortar bombs. They lie motionless on the ground, covered in sheets. Next to them, the suitcases are still standing up. Or the images of the destruction of a children's hospital and the child's bodies which are then quickly buried in a narrow ditch, in the frozen earth of Marioepol. They're heartbreaking scenes. They're going through marrow and bone. A few people dare call Russian intervention in Ukraine extremely mild. I call it barbaric and a dirty war against the Ukrainian people. Putin does not shy away from any means in this war. The end justifies the means. Millions of Ukrainians are on the run and a multiple is stuck in cities. They can't go anywhere. Putin is deliberately preventing people from getting food to force the government to its knees. Hunger is used as a weapon of war. Meanwhile, the hospitals are being bombed. Meanwhile we see the first images of mass graves entering. Mr. Chairman. I think that the United Nations is too quiet about the war in Ukraine. The UN must play a more active role. The organisation was set up to prevent or mitigate such human suffering. The UN cannot be completely paralysed by the Russians' veto. In this context, I ask the Cabinet to what extent it is possible for the United Nations and the Red Cross to have a great deal of involvement in the conflict. Can the U.N. Cabinet plead for humanitarian corridors or air bridges to drop food and medicine? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the European summit. I welcome the strength and speed with which the EU Member States have jointly responded to the Russian invasion of Ukraine. Putin thought he was divisive, but he has reaped unprecedented European unity. First of all, I would like to pay tribute to the Prime Ministers of Poland, Slovenia and the Czech Republic, Mr Morawicki, Mr Janša and Mr Fiala. Last week they paid Zelensky a visit. What a brave journey, certainly not without risk. Mr. Chairman. The European commitment should aim to achieve a ceasefire as soon as possible, followed by a controlled withdrawal from Ukraine. I look forward to the strategy to achieve these goals. We have imposed large-scale sanctions on Russia in recent weeks. That is good, but we should not only use these sanctions as a means of punishment. We need to clarify our objectives and adjust policies accordingly. If our goal is peace in Ukraine, the right message must be sent to Moscow, however unsatisfactory it may seem. That message is that an agreement that Kiev accepts will give some relief to sanctions. I'd like a response. Next: what sanctions do we have left behind and how much economic power do we have towards Russia if they are to deploy biological weapons? Mr. Chairman. At present, all efforts must be made to end the war in Ukraine as soon as possible. But we also need to look forward. On the first day that Russian weapons remain silent, the European Union must be ready to help Ukraine in any way possible. The German Finance Minister wants a marshall plan for Ukraine to help the country with the consequences of the Russian invasion. As far as the CDA is concerned, we are starting to look for strength for this plan today and now. We therefore ask the Cabinet to take a leading role here within the EU and its allies. This plan must be aimed at recovery and reconstruction. For example, it could consist of development aid, grants and loans, but certainly also of knowledge and skills to help build infrastructure, health care and industry and to help society and the economy get back on top. Putin must already be clear that the EU and its allies will not abandon Ukraine and will continue to stand side by side with the Ukrainian people even after the end of the war. A clear signal. There are a number of specific points, Mr President. Can the Prime Minister address the peace negotiations between Ukraine and Russia? How serious do we have to take these conversations? On the accompanying policy: what are we doing for the very heavily affected Dutch sectors, especially those that are capital intensive? What choice do they have? What else do they like? Can the Minister reflect on this? Mr. Chairman. It is also good that we are taking action to reduce our energy dependence on Russia. What is the European force field in this? And what is expected of each Member State to absorb this energy decommissioning? Unfortunately, there are no painless choices, but is there also clarity about them? And more broadly, how are we going to translate European policies on reducing strategic dependencies into national policies? In the short term, the CDA expects a letter from the Cabinet on how to mitigate the risks of strategic dependencies at national level and thus contribute to the European ambitions, especially those that have been prioritised by the French Presidency. In this letter, can the cabinet also comment on what the National Growth Fund can do for this purpose? Mr. Chairman. Then I'll join NATO and tomorrow's NATO summit. Russia has disrupted Europe's security structure and NATO is therefore going to substantially increase its presence on the east flank. The Netherlands also places a Patriot unit in Slovakia at NATO's request. The CDA can fully support that commitment. In addition, Lavrov claims that Russia will not allow arms shipments to Ukraine and that they are a legitimate target. The latter would be an unacceptable act of aggression. Is this statement correct and can the Prime Minister also reflect on this? Mr. Chairman. Finally, I look forward to seeing the state of play on the Russian invasion of Ukraine. How is the battle going and what else can the Netherlands and NATO do to support the Ukrainians? How can NATO carefully assist Ukraine? The CDA calls for further strengthening of military support to Ukraine. I'd like a response.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u63	I would like to ask a question about the sanctions and, in particular, about the fact that it seems that the government is failing to find the Russian oligarchs in the Netherlands and to freeze their assets. It would be 400 million, while there could be some EUR 45 billion worth of funds. Shouldn't we intensify that? Shouldn't the government be looking for those oligarchs much more actively? And do we have to do something about this secrecy and all the constructions they use? Do you agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u64	We've already agreed on four packages of sanctions and I think there's a fifth in the making. We do that in Europe, and that is why my question was aimed at clarity in implementation. We're gonna have to hang out in that together. We should not have the waterbed effect that we loosen up here than in other countries and therefore come here and leave other countries. I agree that we need to be stricter. I'm just gonna say, "Pick as much bald as you can." But we also need to see how effective we are. What the CDA is about is that we are indeed hitting Putin's war chest as hard as possible. Whether we do that through the oligarchs or by reducing oil and gas to the future, we don't care.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u65	The CDA therefore agrees with me that we must do everything we can to combat and remove the structures that those Russian oligarchs are now using to disguise themselves and their abilities. Do you share that with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u66	We must do everything possible and I do not know what is possible. This isn't very easy. It's complicated. We have all read about it: one bv after the other bv; all layers are built up. I expect from the cabinet and, in fact, from every Member State that, if we are going to tackle the oligarchs hard in the sanction packages, we will do our utmost to do so. I cannot make it any better from here, but I understand Mr Van Dijk's point.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u67	Thank you, Mr van der Lee van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u68	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The horrors continue. We are seeing a chain of war crimes, even today with the use of phosphorus grenades on civilian targets. That is in direct violation of the Geneva Convention. And it's not the first incident. That's what very harsh sanctions are for. I'll tell you more about it in a minute. We also see that the intensity of the war is unprecedented. According to the Americans, more Russian soldiers have been killed than on the American side in the whole period in Iraq and Afghanistan combined. I do not know if it is true, but Ukraine notes that more Russians have already died in Ukraine than in all of Afghanistan during the Russian invasion. It says something about the enormous intensity of this war, about the barbaric violence. I believe that, as a Europe, we must be united and firm, but we must also take further steps. Two weeks ago, as a party, we advocated tightening up sanctions, including economic sanctions, especially in the case of fossil fuels. In concrete terms, you can see that the support is growing to set up an oil boycott. I fully agree with that. At the same time, Eastern European Member States are so dependent on fossil energy from Russia that red lines are drawn there. My urgent appeal to the cabinet is to commit itself to this boycott, but also to create space within the Union for a leading group, for Member States that are able to take those steps without forcing Member States to follow them when we know that they cannot do so at our pace. Is the government prepared to do so? The Prime Minister has made a journey in Europe. There are important discussions waiting for him. Can he outline to us the latest state of affairs regarding what is now going on with diplomatic initiatives? He may not be able to tell us everything publicly, but can he outline the latest state of affairs and indicate how sanctions can support and perhaps speed up a number of diplomatic steps? Colleagues have just spoken about financial sanctions. We believe that there really should be a bit of a tooth in the implementation of this. There may be 80 billion worth of Russian assets registered in the Netherlands. That doesn't mean that's all money. It may also be property registered here but located elsewhere in the world. But what is actually being done to freeze the real assets much faster? We have already asked a lot of questions about this. The answer to that is too long. I have just indicated in an interrupting debate that I think we should move on with regard to the oligarchs. The UK has already taken that step. We must do the same as Europe. The immediate family members are simply used to park assets away. Moreover, it is much more direct to the privacy of people with many billions. They may not be impressed by some of those sanctions, but if you include their family members on that list, that may have additional effect. I call on the Cabinet to make a commitment to this in Brussels. Today an Investico publication was published which shows that the investigation of Dutch companies that have participated in the construction of the Russian Crimean bridge has still not been completed after four years. This seems to have been directly contrary to sanctions that were in force at the time. The chances of companies not complying with sanctions are far too low. As far as I know, there's never really been a company prosecuted. Is there any mention of this? Is this gonna get caught up on this? I am also curious whether the veto will be lifted in European discussions. Is there any talk in the next few days of using a veto in deciding on sanctions packages? Will the Netherlands again make an effort to refrain from doing so? I would also like to make an effort to support Ukraine economically. Poland receives compliments, but there are many more refugees in Ukraine itself, in the western part of Ukraine. They are currently out of economic resources and out of work. I think it is already possible to support the western part of Ukraine in the reception of these refugees. It may even be possible to create jobs. That must be the prelude to a marshall-like package of aid, which must enter into force immediately if a ceasefire is to be agreed. We in the European Union do not have to do this alone, but it is very important that this is already being done and that it is not just being started when there is a ceasefire. Is the cabinet working with other Member States on this? I saw a very painful tweet by the Polish Minister for Economic Development. He claims that there is already an agreement on the payment of reparations to Poland. Is that right? Is there a deal yet? How is that possible? How will the Netherlands, hopefully with other Member States, prevent the violation of the rule of law from being forgotten? I agree with the others. If we are to support Poland in the reception of refugees from Ukraine, and I think that is right, then that should not be a licence to give the recovery funds. Can we assume that the Netherlands will continue to define its position clearly, but also organise support to ensure that it does not? I'm running out of time for the Strategic Compass. We support that, but it must be done in an efficient and cost-conscious way to prevent us from wasting a lot of money on all kinds of different weapon systems that cannot work together. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u69	Thank you, Mr De Roon of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u70	Mr. Chairman. The battle in Ukraine has been stalemated. None of the parties is making significant progress yet, but fighting continues and continues. This can lead to prolonged and enormous bloodshed, and I am not talking about the horrific ways in which the civilian population suffers. I call it a tank shooting down a nursing home for the elderly, bombing the art academy, where 400 people were hiding, and bombing the theater in Marioepol, where about 1,000 people had sought security. All this is eligible for the qualification of "war crimes." Mr. Chairman. War brings out the worst in man. A good example of this is what the Ukrainian TV presenter Fahruddin Sharafmal did in a broadcast last week. He cited Adolf Eichmann, who said that to destroy a nation, you must destroy the children for everything. That's inciting genocide. He then indicated that he would personally kill Russian children. He finished by saying that the Russians are garbage and that he hoped that everyone would contribute by strangling a Moskovite. This genocidal tirade, inspired by the Nazi Eichmann, was broadcast on TV in Ukraine. That's very bad. Zelensky's got to take action against that, I'm asking the Prime Minister. Does he agree with me? People might even think Putin has a point if he claims he wants to fight fascism in Ukraine. This should not be allowed to happen even under the conditions of war, I would say: just under the conditions of war. But so far, nothing has been done with it, as far as I can tell. I ask the Prime Minister to tell Zelensky that the Netherlands expects action to be taken. Another point is the suspension of eleven political parties in Ukraine's parliament. Voters are being sidelined. How does the Prime Minister judge that? The PVV considers that to be a mistake in principle. Is the Prime Minister prepared to ask Zelensky for clarification? And does he want to express live concerns in the Netherlands at Zelensky and also at the European summit? Mr. Chairman. Then there is the humanitarian situation in Ukraine. I ask the Prime Minister whether, in addition to sending weapons and imposing heavy sanctions, he is also prepared to do something positive for the ordinary people of Ukraine, and in particular for those who have already been cut off or will be made possible from basic facilities such as food, water and medicines. The situation in Marioepol is a good example of this. Other cities and regions are at risk of having to suffer the same fate. The letter received by this Chamber on 18 March from the Red Cross also shows that the situation is urgent and that supplies of essential necessities are urgently needed. I am thinking of the humanitarian air bridge in 1948-1949 which provided the people in Berlin, surrounded by the Communists, with food, medicine and so on. If something like this could ever be achieved for the Ukrainians who are or will be in a plight, it would be a great help. Of course, we should not wait until it is too late. Timely preparation and planning of such actions is essential. I believe that the implementation should be in the hands of countries that can be trusted by both warring parties, for example the neutral countries in the BRICS group. Other countries, Western countries, can contribute to the preparation and planning. My question to the Prime Minister is whether such a scenario is perhaps already in preparation, and whether he is prepared to raise this idea with our allies, perhaps at the European summit or otherwise informally. Finally, with regard to Ukraine, the cabinet does not want to exclude any sanction measures, even in the energy sector, in the event of further extension of sanctions against Russia. The cabinet wants, as we read, to keep an eye on the security of supply for the Dutch. But what does that even mean to "keep an eye on"? It seems to me to be a vague phrase. The PVV wants the government to put the security of energy supply for the Netherlands absolutely and inviolably in place one. Anything that could put that at risk should not be done by the Cabinet. I would like a commitment on this point. Energy price increases must be fully compensated. The people in the country are already paying themselves blue. Especially the poorest, but certainly the middle class are already cramped, and the price increases for energy put them in a tight spot. It is our government's job to prevent that. I therefore ask for a commitment that the government will not shy away from preventing and/or compensating price increases for energy. Finally, the EU-Strategic Compass. This leads to further militarisation of the European Union. I know that the ratification of the adoption of that document will be a formality tomorrow, but I would like to stress once again that the PVV is opposed to this. In particular, the creation of an EU army is unacceptable. The government denies that that force of 5,000 soldiers is an army, but not a man who still believes that. And once such an army is in place, politicians will also need to use it in situations that seem good to them. At that time, countries which do not want to accept this commitment will be subjected to verbal and manipulative pressure to at least stop their opposition to it, because that is how we know Brussels. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u71	Thank you, Mrs Piri of the PvdA has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u72	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Constant shelling, barely accessing running water, food and medicine, and bodies under blankets on the street. The few inhabitants who have left Marioepol paint a shocking picture. Russia is still preventing civilians who are trapped from fleeing. Another 100,000 people are trapped in that city, which, according to President Zelensky, is barely left. The same applies to Cherson, where there is a threat of a humanitarian catastrophe. How can the cabinet make every effort to ensure that humanitarian aid actually reaches people who need it most? Is the Prime Minister prepared to use his full diplomatic weight to make agreements on safe humanitarian corridors? Mr. Chairman. After Ukraine's invasion, the West closed the queues and announced unprecedented harsh sanctions. Tomorrow, in Brussels, the question again arises as to how we can contribute to the end of this war. But by now, there seems to be some kind of sanction paralysis creeping into it. To a lesser extent, countries seem willing to turn the screws on even though this is very much needed. Every day, European countries transfer EUR 250 million to the Kremlin for oil: money Putin uses to keep his devastating war machine running. This has to stop. For it cannot be explained, not to ourselves, but above all not to the Ukrainians. That is why my simple appeal to the Prime Minister is: in Brussels, plead for an oil boycott against Russia. I'd like a response. We must also boycott Russian ships from European ports as far as the PvdA is concerned. What's the Prime Minister's status on this? Is my impression that the Netherlands is on the brakes in this respect? It is clear that these are measures with far-reaching consequences and with a disproportionate impact on European countries themselves. This testes mutual solidarity and the willingness to take more painful measures. Is the cabinet prepared to work for a new European fund to which countries that are disproportionately affected can appeal? Is a type of fund like the Brexit was rigged up something the Prime Minister likes? Without this European solidarity, I do not see the EU in a position to maintain sanctions for a long time, let alone to extend them substantially. Mr. Chairman. This week the Prime Minister visited Poland and Turkey, among other things. It is good that he has gone, but it was an uncomfortable picture: shoulder-to-shoulder with leaders who for years have shunned the rule of law. Other colleagues have also referred to it: how do we ensure that we remain tough on the rule of law and human rights and at the same time step up together in our support for Ukraine?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u73	You have an interruption by Mr Amhaouch.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u74	I was walking in slow motion. It was just about the other block, too. I'd like to talk about the ports. I understand: if we're going to hit Putin's warhouse, we're going to have to squeeze off that oil. Then we have to see how we do it in a certain way. We must also do this in a European context. The Netherlands, Belgium and Germany have a few strong ports. But does Mrs Piri agree with me that we should also look at this in a European context? They may be ports located on Dutch territory, but they do have a European objective. This cannot be decided unilaterally, certainly not for moving to a large hinterland like Germany. Does she agree with me that, if we take action there and come out with sanctions, we should take them together at European level?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u75	I fully agree with Mr Amhaouch. Because it makes little sense if we do something in Rotterdam if Antwerp or Hamburg doesn't. I believe that the only way to do this is to do it effectively. I ask the cabinet to make a real commitment to doing this at European level and not to put a brake on it because, of course, they are also painful measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u76	That's very good, because they shouldn't be able to deviate. But the next thing is also important. Suppose the Netherlands says it is going to do the boycott of the port and Germany says: but we really need certain things for transit. After all, the Netherlands is a transit country. Then we really need to discuss one-sidedly in Europe, but also with our neighbour, that we cannot impose unilateral sanctions and take action. We cannot say: we take that sanction from the port of Rotterdam and in Germany they find out how they get their stuff. That should be done in good consultation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u77	I'm in favour of doing that in good consultation. Of course, we cannot stop a number of countries from wanting to go further in sanctions and perhaps do it bilaterally. I do not think we can stop that, but it is absolutely my preference to do it together in a European context. I think that's the only effective way. Mr President, we shall proceed. How do we ensure that we stay firm on the rule of law and human rights and, at the same time, step up together in our support for Ukraine? Did the Prime Minister also mention the case of Osman Kavala in his conversation with the Turkish President? And can he promise that the European Recovery Fund will not be granted to Hungary, for example, just two weeks before the elections? Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the cabinet for its willingness to take over 500 refugees from Moldova. This is the poorest country in Europe, which receives the most people per capita. I heard the Prime Minister say at his press conference in Warsaw that we are going to take in 50,000 displaced persons. Isn't it time to be more honest about this to the Dutch, and admit that there will probably be more than 50,000 people coming to the Netherlands? Can the Prime Minister give a realistic estimate? And then the shelter in the Netherlands itself. First of all, I would like to congratulate the people who are working very hard to arrange this shelter in our country. Where countries around us choose to grant temporary residence permits to refugees from Ukraine, our cabinet tends not to do so. This seems like a legal snoop, but it certainly isn't. It is the difference between clear rights to care, education or work and, on the other hand, the structural solutions of this cabinet. A telephone subscription can be closed, a bank account can be opened, study funding can be applied for and a driving licence can be renewed: a temporary residence permit makes it easier to arrange these facilities. Mr President, I am going towards the conclusion. I suspect that the Prime Minister will also be asked in Brussels how we may have such trouble finding corrupt Russian money in the Netherlands. The same question sounds from the Chamber: how is this possible? The battle is moving more and more to the air, where the Russians still do not have the full preponderance. Hence Ukraine's demand to get more help with the anti-aircraft defence. Is this also the government's commitment to NATO talks? Finally. It is now clear that the Prime Minister thinks that Ukraine belongs to the European family. Does this mean that the cabinet is in favour of granting Kiev candidate status? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u78	Thank you, Mrs Koekkoek van Volt has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u79	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The European Union has experienced crisis in recent years: Brexit, the corona pandemic and now the war in Ukraine. Time and time again we see European integration and we see a Europe that works together and acts decisively. That makes sense, because together you stand stronger and the European Union faces challenges that can only be tackled cross-border. But as soon as the crisis is less urgent, we can see that national interests are regained and ambitions are weakened, which does not make full use of the strength of the EU. For a strong Union, we need a European vision and we need to ask ourselves what Europe we want to be. This applies to the reaction to the war in Ukraine, to security and defence policy, to our energy policy and to our economy. The war has a human face in the millions of refugees who come to Europe and are taken care of here. We therefore understand that funds must be available for the border countries that are hit hardest. At the same time, we see how in Poland and Hungary Arab and African refugees are being pushed back and violations of the rule of law continue. How credible is it, then, if Europe claims to stand up for democratic values, if it allows those values to be violated in its own Member States? I ask the Prime Minister not to overlook the crisis of the European rule of law and to ensure that funds in countries such as Poland and Hungary reach the local authorities and aid organisations, while ensuring that independent media can do their work in safety. Mr. Chairman. Our reaction to Ukraine is and must also be valued, because war concerns us all. The EU indicates that it is ready to deploy further coordinated sanctions rapidly. There are several proposals for this, such as the imposition of a full embargo on energy imports, a trade embargo and pressure from third countries to impose sanctions. Can the Prime Minister indicate how the Netherlands relates to these proposals? Mr. Chairman. There is a limit to how economic sanctions can influence the progress of the war. That is why I ask the Prime Minister whether he can write back what the effect of the current and proposed sanctions will be, and what impact they will have on the continuation of the war. The sanctions we impose also have a major impact on third countries. For example, sanctions and the ongoing war are causing famine in South Asia, Africa and Latin America. That is why I am asking the Prime Minister: is there any idea of which banks are handling payments for Russian grain, and are they, like the Russian gas and oil banks, excluded from SWIFT sanctions? And what is the Netherlands' position on the recommendations of the Committee on World Food Security, as set out yesterday in the European Parliament? Then there's our energy dependence. This crisis has made it even clearer that we need to diversify our energy supply as quickly as possible, but we now see that Europe and the Netherlands are focusing on unsustainable alternatives, such as American LNG and biogas, and that they are even talking about reopening coal plants. The situation demands real ambition and accelerating the green transition. That is why I ask the Prime Minister: is the Netherlands prepared to increase the ambitions of the Renewable Energy Directive and the Energy Efficiency Directive, and take a leading role in the Council? If the Netherlands is not prepared to do so, why not?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u80	You have an interruption by Mr Sjoerdsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u81	It is of course incredibly good and important that we implement Fit for 55 as soon as possible, that we make it sustainable and green as soon as possible. That's essential, but that didn't happen tomorrow. If the fraction of Volt is against liquid natural gas, against coal-fired power stations and against a number of other things, then my question is where we are going to get our energy from in the meantime.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u82	I understand that question very well. I think Mr Sjoerdsma and I should not misunderstand each other. It is not the case that it is absolutely unacceptable and should be closed tomorrow, because I think Mr Sjoerdsma also knows that it will not happen tomorrow if we do not focus on the unsustainable alternatives I have just mentioned. There are also unsustainable alternatives in other countries, such as Algeria. But I'm trying to point out here that you should also be in a time of crisis in the long term. Instead of going back to coal power stations with panic football, let us set ourselves up for that sustainable future. The two directives I have just mentioned are necessary instruments to enable other European countries to meet these objectives, to move towards a sustainable future.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u83	D66 has been advocating this greening for many years, because it is necessary, because our business can make money from it and because geopolitics is necessary. But I do have the following specific question for Volt: we can say that this too must be done now, and that must also be done now, but what should happen now with our energy supply? Volt here just says very concretely in the Chamber: "Liquid natural gas, we don't do that for a moment. Gas from Algeria, we won't do that for a while. Gas from Qatar we leave for a while too"? I am just saying this for a moment because we are dealing with a situation in which we cannot say from one day to the next here in the Netherlands: leave energy for a while. It doesn't work. Then you lose all the support for the greening that Volt and D66 so much want.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u84	I fully agree with Mr Sjoerdsma. That is why, in my first reply, I indicated that there are alternatives, such as those from Algeria. Mr Sjoerdsma indicated that himself. So that's what we're agreed on. I'm trying to point out that maybe I'm repeating a little bit that in times of crisis we're sometimes inclined, with some kind of tunnel vision, to go the way of the least resistance. The path of the least resistance is: back to unsustainable energy. This means, for example, the reopening of coal-fired power stations. I believe that Mr Sjoerdsma and I agree that we do not want that. At the moment when there would be an energy shortage that's already going on and scenarios are already being written for it, Volt says: bet on sustainable alternatives. So instead of opening a coal power plant, go, for example, for unsustainable but better gas from Algeria. That is the short term, but at the same time keep the instruments we have, like those two directives I mentioned, on hand and do not go back to what you already know in a time of crisis.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u85	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u86	In addition to becoming energy independent, Europe must also become strategically autonomous as soon as possible in the area of critical raw materials. Previously, the EU looked mainly at Eastern European countries as a solution. For example, Ukraine has many such raw materials, such as lithium. Can the Prime Minister indicate the impact of the war on this strategy? What results does the Prime Minister expect at the summit on this issue? Finally, Mr President, I would like to say the following about a strong and decisive Europe. The Foreign Ministers reached an agreement on Monday on the Strategic Compass, but we are not there either. Nota bene The Netherlands weakens the opportunities for European action by stressing the national competence to decide on the deployment of troops, making rapid deployment almost impossible. Can the Prime Minister indicate whether the Netherlands will agree to Josep Borrell's proposal to indicate, on the basis of scenarios, which troops will supply Member States, in order to be able to deploy the Rapid Deployment Capacity directly in crisis situations? That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u87	Thank you, Mr Van Haga of the Van Haga Group will have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u88	Mr. Chairman. The Chamber already voted against the arrival of an EU army by way of a motion. So BVNL thought it was off the hook. However, the EU is now becoming a military power with the 60 PESCO projects, the European Peace Facility, the European Defence Fund, the Versailles Treaty and now the Strategic Compass with a rapid deployment of 5,000 military forces. Last year, the EU's foreign coordinator spoke of a permanent EU intervention army with as many as 50,000 men. That is why BVNL has the following questions. Are those 5,000 soldiers a first start? What is the long-term plan of this EU mini-ger? How many Dutch soldiers are going to be part of this European mini-army? I don't take it until we solve the staff shortage in our own armed forces. Mr. Chairman. With regard to Ukraine, BVNL's position is unchanged. We strongly condemn the raid, but the Russian people do not want this war and neither do the Ukrainian people. Sanctions have never helped and only affect the Russian people. The language of war in our cabinet does not contribute to a peaceful solution, but leads to discrimination against innocent Russian citizens. Playing war when you've never fired a bullet yourself and aren't willing to die for Ukraine is a risky gospel. That is why BVNL continues to advocate diplomatic actions. The importance of the Netherlands must always prevail. Mr. Chairman. On 3 March, the Council agreed to the preparations for a global pandemic treaty. How was the House of Representatives involved? What exactly is the Prime Minister going to say about the pandemic treaty at the EU summit? How will the House of Representatives be informed about progress in the interim? And how are we involved in decision-making? Mr. Chairman. A large part of the House of Representatives objects to the extension of the European corona certificate. Now we read in a press release that the Council of the EU has already agreed. In addition, a further second extension has been envisaged. Is it true that the Prime Minister has already agreed to the extension of the European corona certificate? How is that consistent with all the objections of the House of Representatives? The Prime Minister will stress at the summit that a patchwork of national measures should be avoided, for example in order to facilitate travel with a QR pass. Does this mean that the Prime Minister is going to advocate an EU approach to corona? BVNL strongly objects to a European approach to corona. As far as we're concerned, we're just gonna keep traveling freely, like we always have. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u89	Thank you, Mr Bishop of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u90	Mr President, thank you very much. "Nothing is possible without man. Nothing is sustainable without institutions." This quote is attributed to Jean Monnet and speaks volumes. Without human enthusiasm and commitment, there is little reality, but without structures that transcend that human being, there is little to hold on to. The logic of this statement goes both ways. Man is capable of something good: building, doing justice, fellow humanity. But man is also capable of evil: destruction, injustice, inhumanity. The latter, too, does not survive without supporting bears who are fighting injustice. Mr. Chairman. Which brings me to the war in Ukraine. The SGP Group strongly supports the efforts of the Putin regime to bring down as much as possible. With economic sanctions towards Russia and the delivery of humanitarian aid and military equipment to Ukraine, we are also trying to do so. Nevertheless, our great dependence on Russian gas is deeply concerned by the SGP. As colleagues have already pointed out, we are talking about Putin's war chest and we can just look forward to a cold winter. I therefore ask the Prime Minister in Brussels to insist on the following three points on this dossier. First of all, flexibility: flexibility in the climate targets to make coal-fired power plants turn harder if necessary, temporarily. Secondly, the suspension of the planned closure of nuclear power stations in Germany and Belgium. Can he argue that? Thirdly, there is the promotion of biogas production, by identifying the mineral concentrate remaining from manure fermentation as a fertilizer substitute in the short term. The latter results in both green gas and fertilizer savings. I would like to comment on these three points. In any case, we still face exciting questions in the coming period. What if Putin continues to defy every frontier of international law and humanity, but still does not violate that red line of violence against NATO? What if Russia continues to commit war crimes? That is why these are my specific questions on this point. What is the humanitarian red line for the cabinet? Will a UN mission be deployed to help enforce a ceasefire or to observe and promote humanitarian aid? Mr. Chairman. Then the Strategic Compass. Following the example of the Ministers for Defence and Foreign Affairs, this Compass must now also be adopted by the Council. The SGP says: let NATO continue to lead as a security organization. Avoid duplication and allow EU coordination, where there is something to be said, never at the expense of national democratic decision-making, including the right of veto. Can the Minister make a commitment on this last point that he will not agree to it? Then a few smaller points. As far as we are concerned, the European coronapas, a hot iron, will be abolished as soon as possible. Does the Prime Minister share our view that this is not necessary at all? The budgetary rules have been relaxed for this year, although the intention is to re-establish the reins next year. Does the Minister agree with us that effective enforcement of the Stability and Growth Pact is and remains necessary? The recovery fund has already been warned of precedent and we are now immediately seeing proposals for Euro defence bonds. Does the Prime Minister promise that these will simply not be there and that he will lie down in front of it? Finally, Mr President. The line between good and evil with which I started my contribution runs not between countries and peoples, but through every human heart. Who can say that they only have the purest intentions? Nota bene an apostle, Paul, said: I don't do the good that I want to do, but I do the evil that I don't want to do. Someone like Paul said this, depicted on Roman Catholic prayer cards with a sacred circle above his head, so you know what status he has. It is good to know precisely in this suffering time towards Good Friday and Easter that Christ came into this broken world to heal and renew it. That is the only thing that really holds. Let us not reject that divine peace treaty, but embrace it to the full. Mr President, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u91	Then I'll go to Mrs. Van der Plas of BBB.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u92	Thank you very much. President and best residents of the Netherlands, in the Netherlands you have the saying "better a good neighbor than a distant friend." Especially now in turbulent times with a lot of struggle and conflict, the importance of good neighbours should not be underestimated. This requires good cooperation, both within NATO and within the EU. However, in my opinion, the EU has not been looking for cooperation over the last few decades, but rather sees the opportunity for a massive expansion of its dominant position. Commission President Von der Leyen and her colleagues see only one solution to all the issues of today: more EU. It is up to the Prime Minister and his colleagues to calm down the European Commission in this area. During the war in Ukraine, the European Commission tries to play a little NATO. She wants to deliver weapons and show herself by bringing out hasty statements. The NATO alliance is watching over our collective security and has been doing so very successfully for more than half a century. The Netherlands is not waiting for the European Commission's amateurism in this area. I'd rather put our safety in the hands of Stoltenberg than in the hands of Von der Leyen. Does the Prime Minister agree with the BBB that there is a risk that responsibilities will cross over? What do our American allies think of this new attitude in Brussels? This also seems to me to be important in setting up a new Rapid Deployment Capacity, bringing 5,000 European soldiers quickly on their feet. The Foreign Minister has promised Dutch troops to do so. Working together for our common security is inevitable, but the Prime Minister must be crystal clear in Brussels. Only the Dutch cabinet and parliament will decide on the use of Dutch military, now and in the future. So no EU army. Why is this important? Because the House of Representatives is the only representative of the entire Dutch people. Only we can choose whether or not to put Dutch lives at risk of war. Moreover, I can then directly control the Minister, while I can only call the European Commission to account indirectly or at all. I'd like the Prime Minister's view on this. Mr. Chairman. How many times have farmers and I have said that we need a war or famine before we start to appreciate food production again. Besides oxygen and water, food is one of the first three necessities. Without one of those three, you're just gonna die. This is something that few people have considered in recent decades, because there was food in abundance. Here in the Netherlands we have been trading fertile agricultural land for solar parks, data centers, distribution centers and wish nature for years. The Hedwigepolder is flooded for the benefit of the Westerschelde. Fertile fields and meadows become ponds. Farmers must be expropriated and bought out for a paper nitrogen problem. What do we really need these farmers, growers, growers and fishermen for? Food's just in the store, right? Or worse, as former VVD leader and now paid environmental guru Ed Nijpels said to me last year: Mrs Van der Plas, farmers occupy two thirds of our country. "Occupying," how do you get it out of your mouth? How do you get it out of your mouth that's fed by those same farmers? That land is often simply the property of farmers. These farmers make good for the people, safe, sustainable and affordable food. That's what they give back for that "occupied" country. That is forgotten for a moment, completely detached from reality. Mr. Chairman. Unfortunately, a terrible war is needed to wake up governments as well. The French President and good friend of our Prime Minister, Emmanuel Macron, has already rubbed the sleep out of his eyes. He has announced a major shift in the French agricultural policy. The main focus of the French agricultural policy will be food independence. France will prioritize this over the goals of the EU Green Deal. Macron speaks of a deep food crisis, which makes it important to increase the production capacity of European agriculture and adapt the Van-Boer-to-Bord strategy. What is the position of the Netherlands in this regard? Is the Prime Minister prepared to consult with his colleagues on adapting the Green Deal and the Farm to Fork packages to prevent production losses? Can the Prime Minister give us a feedback on the commitment of our Minister for Agriculture in this area at the last Agriculture and Fisheries Council in Europe? Finally, Mr President. In 1950, half a hectare of agricultural land was available to every world citizen. At that time, 2.5 billion citizens were involved. By 2050 this is only 0.17 hectares of agricultural land per person, with a world population of 9 to 10 billion. Food production shouldn't go down, but it should go up. Let us never forget that 0.3% of the population feeds the other 99.7%.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u93	Thank you, and I will give the floor to Mrs Van der Graaf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u94	Madam President, thank you very much for the floor. How many more lives have to be lost? How many more bombs are to fall? How many more Marioepols have to be destroyed? How many Ukrainians and Russians need to be killed before anyone realizes that this war has no winners, but only losers? These were the words of the Secretary-General of the United Nations yesterday. These are just words and questions that are being raised. Because there is a tragedy on our European continent. War crimes are being committed and it looks like a bloody stalemate. A war always ends at a negotiating table. I ask the Prime Minister whether he sees an active role for the European Union in this, with or without the United Nations. Mr Bishop also asked for a mission aimed at truce and peace. I'd like a response from the Prime Minister. How does he indicate the role of the United Nations so far? Mr. Chairman. The humanitarian situation of the people in Ukraine is incredibly poignant. I ask the government what it is prepared to do to ensure that there are humanitarian corridors to offer the people who are now trapped like rats their way to freedom. This war has global consequences, even when it comes to food security. I am thinking in particular of Africa and the Middle East. UN institutions, such as FAO and IFAD, contribute to the availability of sufficient food, but also suffer from shortages due to rising food prices. I ask the government to raise this issue at this European Council and to call on the European Member States and the EU to contribute to its funding and to close the gaps that exist today. As the Netherlands, we should play a role in it. This should not be at the expense of other humanitarian aid currently provided by the Netherlands. I ask the Prime Minister if he is prepared to raise this issue in the European Council. I also ask whether there is any dialogue between the European Union and African Union on the food situation. The questions about the effectiveness of our system of sanctions have already been raised by colleagues. For the sake of shortness of time, I agree with that. The Christian Union is also wondering why the amount of funds of oligarchs in the Netherlands that we know how to freeze is so high in relation to all the money that is channelled through trust offices through our country. I'd like a response from the Prime Minister. Mr. Chairman. The millions of women and children fleeing Ukraine are in great danger on the road during their journey, not knowing where they will end up. There's a very good chance they'll fall into the wrong hands. For there are not only aid organisations at the borders, but also human traffickers. They prey on them, in their very vulnerable position. War brings out the worst in people. The most vulnerable people are the victims of this. Preventing people from becoming victims of trafficking in human beings in this situation calls for a coordinated approach at European level. I ask the Prime Minister to work on this with his European colleagues. I'm asking for his response to that. As a Christian Union, we remain concerned about the rule of law in Poland and Hungary. We see their stakes and we think we should stand shoulder to shoulder. I also see very clearly how the European Union can now be seen as a value community. We have been calling for this for years, even during previous refugee crises. This is a stark contrast. I call on the cabinet to stay focused on addressing these countries under the rule of law. We must not allow that to be overshadowed by what is happening now. In recent weeks, the Prime Minister himself has spoken to many Heads of Government. He's been traveling a lot. It is good to be in conversation and keep all the lines open, but I would like to ask what results these discussions have led to. I agree with my fellow Members on this point when we see that countries such as China and Turkey play a role. Let us be clear that we in the Netherlands believe that this is not a licence for them to violate human rights in their own country. Mr. Chairman. I will leave it at that, and I await the Prime Minister's response. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u95	Thank you, then I will go to Mr Eppink of JA21.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u96	Mr. Chairman. There seems to have been a new era. The European Member States are going to re-arm themselves. Russia is coming into further isolation and China is going to play a greater role on the world stage. China seems to be the winner of the current situation. Mr. Chairman. War in Ukraine brings terrible consequences. See the drama in Marioepol. Both Ukraine and Russia will not stop until there is a moment where there is nothing left to win for either. Experts say that there seems to have been a stalemate in Ukraine at the moment. My question to the Prime Minister is how he estimates that after all his visits. A long-term conflict doesn't benefit anyone. Negotiation options should be kept open at all times. My question to the Prime Minister is to provide more insight into the negotiating field that is currently taking shape, but which is not very clear to us. I would also like to commend and support the countries of Central and Eastern Europe. According to a UN report dated 21 March, Poland has already absorbed over 2 million Ukrainians, Romania half a million, and Moldova and Hungary both over 300,000. I have often defended Poland and Hungary in this Chamber against too harsh criticism, including from the Prime Minister. These countries often feel treated as second-class members of the European Union. Indeed, not everything in those countries is perfect. But that is not the case in the Netherlands either. Why don't you ask the citizens? The Netherlands is therefore not in a position to be the moral knight of Europe. We must stop constantly teaching these countries. We have to learn to appreciate them. Mr. Chairman. Fortunately, the Prime Minister is a flexible man. I even saw him on TV hanging out with President Erdogan of Turkey. That has been different in the past. I also call on the Prime Minister to be more cordial to the countries of Central and Eastern Europe. Especially now they deserve it. Polish Deputy Prime Minister Jaroslaw Kaczynski recently came up with a plan for an international peace mission in Ukraine consisting of UN blue helmets, of course once there is a ceasefire. How does the Prime Minister see that? I would like to discuss food security further.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u97	I shall have Mr Van der Lee interrupt for a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u98	I cannot fail to address Mr Eppink. The rule of law is a very important good and an important core value of the European Union. If you make agreements with each other and make rules, don't you think you're worth a slap in the face if you're gonna break that? However, I actually hear Mr Eppink arguing in favour of this. He puts all that away as "playing the moral knight." Should we also deal with the enforcement of laws and regulations in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u99	Maybe I can answer that, Mr. Chairman. Playing the moral knight is exactly the point. In Hungary there are elections on 3 April. There's Orbán, and the front United Hungary with six parties. In it is also the party Dialogue for Hungary. That's a sister party of GroenLinks. This coalition also includes the party Jobbik, the most anti-Semitic party in Europe. Why don't you address your sister parties to that? Jobbik is condemned everywhere, including in the European Parliament. That's where they sit. They're completely separate. If you want to be a moral knight, look in the mirror first. That's my point. If everything was perfect in the Netherlands, I would say: the Netherlands can make a point. But it's not.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u100	This is, of course, a quatsch answer. I don't want to play morale. This has nothing to do with playing morale. This is about making firm agreements in our community, in the European Union. And if you're gonna break it, you're gonna have to follow a penalty. That has nothing to do with morale.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u101	I have to say that Poland and Hungary are being accused of things that we do, such as political appointments of judges. You laugh, Mrs Piri, but your party, the socialist party of Hungary, is in the same coalition with Jobbik. Then how do you explain that? Mr President, how does Mrs Piri explain this? I can't hear anything. Why don't you start with that? So one sits constantly...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u102	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u103	Those aren't you-boxes, Mr. Sjoerdsma. You choose allies with a lot of spots, and you'd rather not talk about that. I'm saying that now because a lot of people don't know that. D66, ditto! Mr. Chairman. I would like to discuss food security further. The rest of the world also feels the effects of the war. A quarter of the world's wheat exports come from Ukraine. Many African countries depend to a large extent on their food supply on Russia and Ukraine. At the slightest fluctuation in food supplies, famines are likely to break out deep in Africa. The European Union and the Netherlands in particular can play a major role in improving global food security. This is also seen by the French President Emmanuel Macron, who wants to make agricultural production a top priority once again. Europe cannot afford to produce less, he proposed in the presentation of his plans for a stronger Europe. The Netherlands has one of the most productive agricultural sectors, an example for the rest of the world, but this sector is now under pressure. My question to the Prime Minister: does the Prime Minister support this agricultural vision of the French President? Finally, Chairman, the Strategic Compass. Two weeks ago, a majority of the House voted against the creation of a European army. However, the arrival of 5,000 European soldiers within the Rapid Deployment Capacity is a step in that direction. But there is insufficient support for a European army in the Lower House, which is the ultimate goal of that exercise. And that is why I ask the Prime Minister: does he share this analysis and does he recognise that there is insufficient support for a European army in the Lower House? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u104	Thank you, Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u105	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A very important European summit, while the fight in Ukraine is getting worse every day. We are not contributing to this at the moment, but we can look at what we are doing ourselves. The first thing the Dutch government will be called upon to do will be sanctions. Together, sanctions have been agreed on Russian and Belarusian oligarchs and the Netherlands has only seized 0.4 billion of the tens of billions that have been taken to the Zuidas. In fact, we asked for clarification yesterday and we didn't get it. The letter states that companies must freeze their own funds. I do not know how the government imagines that a company in this country should freeze its own stuff. And did one company say "gosh, I'm gonna do that"? No, of course not! All these possessions are concealed, hidden through deals with the Dutch Tax Administration, with an APA or an ATR. They all do. I would like to know whether those APAs and those ATRs, which deal with the Tax Administration, which they do get and the rest of the Netherlands don't get, are available to the authorities that have to impose the sanctions. If they don't get to see it, they're gonna have to go into the blind and figure out what belongs to who. Then there was also a plan to set up a trust fund to place that money, because someone will have to pay for the recovery in Ukraine. If that money could be used by the people in the Putin circle, that would be a good thing. Mr. Chairman. Point two is energy. There's gonna be a problem with energy. Are we now prepared to be able to do without Russian energy from one day to the next? If not, how can we, as the West, make sure that we are incredibly fast? Because remember that our citizens are going bankrupt because of high energy prices. These energy prices are paid every day to Russia, which can finance its war. We can't get it worse than this. We have to stop doing that. Now it has to be paid in roubles by Putin, but I do not even think that should be done, because then our energy companies will not comply with the sanctions. Mr. Chairman. The coronapas..................................................................................................................... I suggest we not agree to that and return it to the Health Council. Strategic Compass; not a European army. And I remind the government that a motion has been passed here not to set up new loan funds to solve things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u106	Thank you, you have an interruption by Mr Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u107	Can I just go back to the sanctions and the freezing of those assets? That doesn't seem to go well in the Netherlands. Last week it was 6 million. Then it was 200 million. Now it is 400 million, but it could be EUR 45 billion. So it's really peanuts. According to Mr Omtzig, is that government unwillingness or incompetence?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u108	In certain cases, it's unwillingness. Ships have sailed from ports of the Kingdom of the Netherlands which could have been seized. Those weren't rowboats. And in other things we have deliberately set up structures that conceal who is the ultimate beneficial owner. But you can find it at once when you go to the Tax Administration, because with the Tax Administration all these structures have a so-called Advance Pricing Agreement or an Advance Tax Rule concluded and that's what it says. So my question is: have the authorities that impose and enforce the sanctions been given full access to all APAs and ATRs in the Tax Administration? They don't have to go public. I understand all that, because it all seems to be difficult with privacy. Because the privacy of these tycoons will undoubtedly be important, but they must be used for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u109	Clear. I propose that we as a Chamber join forces and give the government a push in that direction, because much more needs to be done than what the government has done so far.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u110	Okay. Thank you. That was a comment and no further question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u111	Oh, I thought it was extra speaking time. Anyway... Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u112	Finally, I give the floor to Mr Van Houwelingen from FVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u113	Mr. Chairman. Two issues are being discussed at the European Summit tomorrow and the day after tomorrow, which Forum for Democracy is very concerned about. The first is the negotiation of an international pandemic treaty. We have received many e-mails about this from citizens. The Dutch are right to be very concerned about this. Why? Because such a legally binding international convention enables the World Health Organisation to guide health policy in our country in the event of a pandemic. If the European Union signs such a convention on behalf of the Member States, the World Health Organisation may, as soon as there is a pandemic according to the same World Health Organisation, impose legally binding health measures on the European Union to combat it, which the European Union then imposes on our country by means of European regulations, which the Netherlands must transpose into its own legislation. Of course we lose control of our health policy during a pandemic. In this way, we allow globalists to dictate what we need to do through the World Health Organisation in the event of a pandemic. The same World Organisation that announced January 14, 2020 that there was no evidence of human-to-human infection in corona. The same World Health Organization that is responsible for the great coronabedrog by classifying a virus with the mortality of a flu as a pandemic. And now we are going to start negotiations that give the World Health Organisation the power to dictate what we should do in a pandemic. Absurd! We would like to hear from the Prime Minister what red line he is going to pull in the sand to prevent the Netherlands from being handed over defenselessly to the World Health Organisation in the event of a pandemic. Are we even sovereign at all? Will the Dutch Government be forced by the World Health Organisation to impose a lockdown in the event of a pandemic? And how will the Prime Minister prevent the Netherlands, under the guise of inclusiveness, from handing over medicines and protective equipment to other countries in the event of a pandemic in the future? And what is also very important: how is he going to ensure and guarantee that the World Health Organisation can never and never impose a vaccination obligation on our country in the event of a pandemic? I have already said that many Dutch people are quite rightly very concerned about this. Mr. Chairman. The second topic on which we are very concerned at this summit concerns the further development of a European army. It's been mentioned a few times. There are already 18 so-called EU battalions of as many as 60,000 men, in which the armies of different European countries work together. However, these battalions are not, in principle, permanent and are managed and paid by the relevant EU countries. On the other hand, the European summit will discuss the creation of a permanent European intervention force of 5,000 people. This intervention force is paid and controlled from Brussels. If this is not a European army, then what is? That is my question to the Prime Minister. A week ago, this Chamber voted by a majority against the creation of such a European army. It's been mentioned a few times. My question to the Prime Minister is: why did he nevertheless agree to the creation of this European intervention force? In fact, if we can believe the Minister of Defence, the Netherlands is even at the forefront of this. Does the Prime Minister agree with us that, in the long term, such a European army will inevitably become a European army under German leadership, especially with the departure of the United Kingdom from the European Union and a EUR 1 000 billion re-armed Germany? Does the Prime Minister see this risk? In short, and in conclusion, it is clear that the Democracy Forum does not want a legally binding pandemic treaty with which we surrender to the World Health Organisation. We are mordicus against the formation of a European army. Our democracy, our freedom, our self-determination and our sovereignty, in short, our future and that of our children, are at stake. That is why we must leave globalist institutions, such as the European Union and the World Health Organisation, which are fundamentally threatening all of this, as soon as possible. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u114	Thank you, Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u115	This was a clear input. The pandemic treaty will be on the agenda of the Health Council tomorrow. My one-man group has even contributed to this, so this could have been done. There is something else on the agenda for tomorrow: the war, the Russian invasion of Ukraine. How does the Forum for Democracy view a solution to this? Does Forum even see that there is a Russian invasion going on? I do not see that in the input.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u116	Thank you for this question. The European description also lists the pandemic treaty, so I think it is part of this debate. That's why we call it. Of course there is an invasion. We have repeatedly said that we find it horrible what has happened. Of course, it's a huge tragedy. How do you solve it? We said six or seven years ago that with that association agreement, which as you undoubtedly know is an integration treaty, Ukraine had to take over all the European Union's legislation and steer a conflict with Russia. I have said this on several occasions here in this Chamber. The Dutch people voted against it then, but it was pushed through by this Prime Minister, who even abolished the referendum. We're still very angry about that. And yes, we see an important reason for this conflict. Your question is: how do you solve that? We're in a lot of trouble right now, in a lot of trouble. We think you should do everything you can to de-escalate. That is what other parties say, such as the Dutch interest. You don't do that by sending guns or by imposing sanctions. We are all in neutral de-escalation mode, but of course it should never have come to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u117	Is the invasion of Russia into Ukraine under international law legal or illegal according to FVD?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u118	You have already had a very big debate on this, among other things with our party leader. The problem is, you want a conviction. That is actually your question: condemn the invasion of Russia. We could do that. Let me just put it this way. We could do that if the great evil Russia had indeed ins Blaue hinein suddenly invaded Ukraine, as is assumed by a large part of the Chamber, perhaps even by you. But, of course, there is a huge history to it, as I have just tried to make clear, including with the association agreement. We have tons of butter on our heads here as the Netherlands. Condemning that is actually grotesque in that context. Suppose, for example, that Russia had just invaded a sovereign country. Of course we condemn it. We are the first to condemn that. But we have supported this coup in the Maidan Square, as I have often said. Putin invaded that country in February, probably partly symbolic, because exactly seven years ago this violent coup was supported by the European Union. Van Baalen and Verhofstadt stood in that square screaming: resist; reject your government! Imagine Putin doing that in Paris by the yellow hoops. So we do not really have a moral position anymore to condemn anyone for that. It has often been said, also by Mr Bishop. Then we haven't even talked about all the NATO interventions. We are constantly bombing countries, all under the guise of regime change. Now Russia is doing that very badly, again under the same pretexts in Ukraine. That's my answer. We no longer have moral authority in this matter. That is very bad, but that is actually the fault of globalists. They love it, regime change.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u119	Maybe just a reminder: we talk through the President every time.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u120	Mr. Chairman. The Forum for Democracy has never had any difficulty in condemning anyone here, really never where, whether it's a minister or a country, or the invasion of Iraq by the US. This is the only thing they dare not say. You can all find that mistakes have been made somewhere. But I've been waiting for four weeks, and I haven't seen any reasoning, no reason whatsoever, on the basis of which Putin is allowed to invade the country. Because if Putin is allowed to invade Ukraine, according to Forum, he may also invade the Baltic countries. Then he may also invade Poland. Then he doesn't have to stick to any boundaries. In fact, then he has the legitimacy to attack the Netherlands, because the Netherlands did not do the association agreement well. If you would accept this reasoning, Putin can do whatever he wants. You don't have to say that the Netherlands did everything right, but Forum does something very dangerous here. It acts as if there is no international law. It acts as if a country has the right to invade another country. And that of a party that wants to set up tribunals. I would now like to hear from Forum what is the reason that Putin, according to Forum, had the right to not invade Ukraine, a sovereign country in no way a perfect country, but that is not to invade any country, as it is now killing thousands of people, and look what is happening in Marioepol and continue to do so. What's the reason for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u121	[[Sentence could not be parsed: Ik kan het niet anders dan herhalen.]] You're acting like there's no history.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u122	Let's go through the chairman again.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u123	Mr Omtzigt pretends that there is no history. Then my second question would be: what do you think of this violent Maidancoup in 2014, for example? Again, that invasion is terrible. I wish that had never happened. That's all bad. It's all horrible. But it's action reaction. This is how it happens in the international playing field. We could have condemned it. We really would have condemned it here if there hadn't been a history. If it had been like I just said, if it had been ins Blaue hinein: of course. We are incredibly in favour of sovereignty. If there's one party for sovereignty, it's us. But we've lost our moral authority. You can charge a lot of people for that, but not us.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u124	Good. We're gonna go in a circle. Mr. Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u125	Finally. The Forum for Democracy is therefore only for its own sovereignty, not for Ukraine's sovereignty, which clearly did not want to be invaded. It is not for the chosen Zelensky, who is not accused of a coup, not even by the Forum for Democracy. I have now asked for a forum for democracy six or seven times, in this debate and in the previous debate: give me one reason that is sufficient reason to invade. So far, no reason has been given. There's a lot of reason. The West didn't do it all right. But Forum cannot mention one reason why Russia is allowed to do a battle in Ukraine with thousands of tanks and hundreds of thousands of troops. It would adorn Forum if they at least said they couldn't. The fact that they do not dare to do so is very worrying.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u126	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u127	Finally, I will respond very briefly. Ukraine has not actually been a sovereign country since 2014, since that violent coup supported by the European Union. It is not anymore, just like all other countries, such as Afghanistan, Libya and Iraq, that our interventions are not really anymore either. That's terrible. You're gonna have to do it with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u128	That concludes the first term of office. We're going to suspend. We'll be back in an hour.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u129	We will continue with the debate on the European summit and the NATO summit. We're going to see the Prime Minister for his first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u130	Mr. Chairman. Just to manage expectations, questions have been asked about the pandemic treaty. There will be a great deal of discussion with NATO tomorrow, and then with the European Council, but not with the pandemic treaty. That's what's going on here. I had that questioned on March 29th at the Health Council. A letter was also sent to the Chamber by the VWS Minister about that Health Council. It's also going into the pandemic treaty. More than that letter says, I don't have any here. I don't even have that letter here. I should ask for that. Then I'm gonna read the letter, but you can read it yourself. That's all I know. So I'm gonna leave it there for a while. The second is that I have to inform you in advance that the agenda of the European Council has been slightly modified. First of all, the President of Ukraine will also call by video link. That's one. The second is that the eurozone summit was postponed to June. Some questions have been asked about this. Of course, I'll just answer it. But the eurozone summit itself is going to June. Another item on the agenda has then been added to this European Council. We should have reported that to the Chamber by now. That didn't happen by mistake. This is about the re-election of the President of the European Council. The last time it was announced by the French President that he would consult the Council on this matter as a foreman or forewoman, but in this case it is a foreman of the country holding the rotating Presidency. There seems to be broad support among Member States for the re-election of Charles Michel, the current President of the European Council. I think it's right to report that here, too. I will, of course, include in the European Council's report whether or not that happens. That's all for the administration if that's all right with you, Mr. Chairman. I've had a lot of questions. I would like to start with the questions about how we are currently indicating the military situation in Ukraine and everything related to it, including diplomatic matters and the negotiations that are going on everywhere. Let me begin by saying that I agree with the many speakers who have said that the situation on the ground is terrible. In many respects, this situation is tragic as a result of Russia's inconsequential aggression. It is clear that the Russian attack is not going according to plan at the moment. The advance is progressing slowly; that actually indicates all the sources we can find. The Russian invasion force faces huge losses, logistical problems and also low morale among the troops. Also the Ukrainian resistance, as we can see, is much brighter than expected. The downside of this slow march is, of course, that Russia's action is becoming more brutal and more violent and that, through the siege of cities and the use of imprecise bombings, there are now large-scale devastations and large numbers of civilian casualties. That's the actual picture we're seeing right now, and it's very difficult to predict how it's going to go on. Actually, I'm not gonna risk it. I can only conclude that the situation is as it is, that we need to prepare for all possible scenarios and that we should not rule out Russia trying to push ahead with further bombings or new offensives. But whether that will succeed, we will of course see for the next few days and weeks. Of course, we are very involved in what Volodymyr Zelensky is doing and in the way he is leading Ukraine and the resistance, and also in the military response to the terrible Russian aggression. Of course, in that context, I think all diplomatic initiatives should now focus on stopping bloodshed. Mr Van der Lee and Mrs Piri, as well as many others, asked. Refugees must be able to leave the bombed cities. In the UN context, Russia is currently blocking effective measures; we need to be honest about that. The blockade of Russia means that the OSCE cannot actually do anything at the moment. I was in Turkey yesterday, with President Erdogan. Turkey has a special position because it has condemned Russia's aggression. In this sense, Turkey has reacted more firmly than, for example, India. I call India because the Prime Minister of India is in contact with both Russia and Ukraine. But the difference with Turkey is that Turkey has also expressed a firm condemnation of Russian aggression. At the moment, the President himself but also Çavuşoglu, the Foreign Minister, is trying to see from that position of contact with both Russia and Ukraine what is possible to possibly come up with a form of consultation or negotiation. Of course, we will have to wait and see if that will work, but I think that this type of initiative is very important. You will also find in the public sources which themes are involved. That has to do with that bizarre claim of denazification, as Putin called it. It also has to do with security guarantees over and over again. It also has to do with issues surrounding the Russian minority in Ukraine. However, and you can also find this in the public sources, it is also about how it continues in a possible peace treaty with the Donbas, the two oblasts around Luhansk and Donetsk and Crimea. It's very difficult to predict how that's going to happen right now. My assessment is that, if this is to lead to something, especially on those big issues of Donbas and Crimea, there is ultimately a need for a direct dialogue between Ukraine and Russia, and that it is not possible to rule out that such a conversation, if it is to be successful, should take place at the highest level. And of course, we don't know if that's an option. That too is decided in the future. Moreover, the UN has a difficult position in this conflict. The United Nations sg is currently being hampered by Russia in direct mediation between the warring parties. Moscow is actually putting him away as biased, but he is definitely meddling behind the scenes. He is also in close contact with third countries such as Turkey, Israel and India. And, of course, this contact with both capitals also applies to France, Germany and America, but of course they also have a very strong position in terms of sanctions and the attitude of the Western world. But the special position here is, of course, particularly the Israeli Prime Minister, the Prime Minister of India and the President of Turkey, as has already been mentioned. In the United Nations, the condemnation of aggression was pronounced in a session of all countries. It has been supported by 141 Member States. One of the objectives of Dutch diplomacy is to keep that group together, in close coordination with our allies, because not all 141 Member States are by definition equally motivated. You need to keep that group together and, if possible, extend it to include the 30 plus countries that have expressed themselves neutrally in that resolution. It is important to make the coalition of 141 countries grow and not shrink. From Europe, this is what we are trying to do from the Netherlands to contact Macky Sall, the holder of the rotating presidency of the African Union, but also with India, Indonesia, South Africa and other countries, in order to ensure that the coalition is as successful as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u131	We haven't agreed on the number of interruptions yet. I suggest four times one interruption. Mr. Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u132	Could there be something more? I find it strange that we would have less interruptions on the government than on each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u133	Well, then we can do three more interruptions in two.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u134	Six. I have one simple question. I hope that can be done in one question, Mr President. I see all kinds of mediation efforts, but for successful mediation, it is very helpful to have one mediator. Otherwise you get a kind of forum shopping, where one likes it better to sit with India, the other likes it better to be intercessed with Israel and the next day another party considers mediation of the UN desirable. Then you don't really come to a solution. Is there any pressure from the parties on both sides, and also from their friends, so that there really is only one conciliation table and the countries have to put their cards on the table?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u135	There are talks going on between a Ukrainian delegation and a Russian negotiating delegation, without there necessarily being a mediator there at the time. The conversations at that table take place partly via video connection, and partly via direct calls at the border area. In addition, there is, of course, intensive contact from Berlin and Paris with both presidents. This is closely aligned and de-conflicted, including with other countries that have contacts, in particular Israel and Turkey. In the end, of course, it is up to the negotiating parties to see if they are actually prepared to say that they want a third party and who they should be. I do not have the impression in any way that this is going to be a problem when it comes to this. In fact, everyone would be very happy that it is now and immediately say: well, then Mrs. X or Mr. Y should do it. I think it's clear right now. I noticed yesterday in my talks with Erdogan, the President of Turkey, that this is very intensively coordinated by the teams and that there is no risk of shopping in any way, because we certainly should not have that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u136	Please continue. Mrs. Van der Plas? Yeah, go to the microphone, because then I have the signal that you want to ask a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u137	I'm always very modest, Mr. Chairman. I do have a question about the conversations with Erdogan. Erdogan isn't crazy in my opinion either. He thinks he might be able to pull something out of it if he becomes the great mediator, because everyone likes to do business with him now, in quotes. Is that what you're talking about? Are there any mutual agreements? When it is said "we do want him as a mediator," are no promises made to Erdogan, even if he asks: what's in it for me? Is it or is it completely white and there are only conversations without strings attached to them?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u138	In fact, the answer I gave to Mr Omtzigt is basically that. At the moment, the talks are taking place directly between the two parties at the negotiating table. In the end, they have to make a choice. If they come to the wishes of a mediator, there is no question at all of it, then I do not fear in any way that there will be a conflict between different mediators who run to the door and say: we want to. Then they say to each other: how fantastic that it can be done. The one they choose, it will be. That could be one of these, but it could be another. Let's hope it comes to that. I must point out, however, that Turkey is a member of NATO. Of course, it's an ally of ours. By the way, it is a country with which the Netherlands itself has a complicated relationship. We shouldn't put that under the table either. But I am glad that Erdogan is opening up and that he has also received the President of Israel. Unfortunately, he has not implemented all the sanctions. Of course, I did ask him to do that yesterday. At least he has taken over the UN package. It is very important that Turkey has closed the Bosphorus for ships with no final destination, in accordance with the Montreux Convention. That is also very important. So Turkey really does things in practice, like: no Russian fighter planes from Syria across Turkish territory to Russia. These are all matters that Turkey is doing, which it is very strong in and which I think are very important. I really think it's a credible conversational partner in those talks. But I don't choose, of course. That's what Zelensky and Putin have to do, if it ever came to that. And let's hope this moment arrives.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u139	What matters to me is not that, when this terrible misery is over, Erdogan is going to say to the EU: listen, I have done my best and done a lot of what you asked me to do, and now I want to come and collect the bill. This could be in all kinds of areas, such as accession to the EU. Or he's saying, "I want you guys to commit a little bit against me when something happens in Turkey." I would like some kind of commitment that it is simply not and that it is not mentioned. Either he does it from his good soul and because he wants to give help, or he doesn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u140	I agree. I haven't noticed in any way that he's trying to connect with that. However, as far as bilateral relations are concerned, there are, of course, still complex issues to be resolved, including between Turkey and the European Union. I have also outlined to him that, in my opinion, accession is at present completely stalling. The same applies at present to visa liberalisation. That is quite still at the moment. You're hoping at some point there'll be some movement in the customs union. It already exists between Turkey and Europe and it would also be very attractive for the Netherlands if it were expanded. But that too is still at the moment. Cyprus in particular, but Greece and others still do not feel that way. But the part of my talks with the Turkish President yesterday about bilateral relations and about the relationship between Turkey and Europe were completely separate from Ukraine. Nor has he in any way given the impression that he sees a connection between them. Mrs Piri also asked me whether I raised the Kavala case. Yes, I did. Demirtas was also discussed yesterday. We continue to raise these important issues. That is what we do in the bilateral talks. I did so earlier when we spoke at the NATO summit in June. I think it is very important that we continue to raise the rule of law and human rights in these talks, especially in view of the rulings of the European Court of Human Rights in these two terrible issues.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u141	I still see Mrs. Van der Plas at the microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u142	May I conclude that Erdogan is not promised anything for the role he is going to play? Doesn't he get a reward for good behavior?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u143	There are so many assumptions in that question that I cannot answer. For the Netherlands... No, I'm going back to Turkey myself. He's not asking for it himself. I haven't noticed in any way that he's saying, "I'm trying to help in this conflict right now, and so I want this sooner or I want sister or I want it like that." That would be really inappropriate. The man is president of the Republic of Turkey, a country with 85 million inhabitants. It would be very inappropriate for him to ask, and he doesn't. It doesn't fit in with the situation we're in. They're really separate files. They're separate from each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u144	I see Mr Van der Lee for an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u145	Thank you to the Prime Minister for explaining the situation, including on the diplomatic front. I still had a question about China. I've seen the Americans speak to China. I was wondering if there was any contact with the Chinese from Europe. Is there anything noticeable about the fact that the duration and severity of the conflict can mean something to China's position? I'd like to hear more about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u146	For this it may be relevant that Wopke Hoekstra, our own Foreign Minister, last Tuesday spoke to Wang Yi, the state counselor, so say the man who is seen as very important in the foreign political field of China. He said that in the eyes of the Dutch and the Western world China should use its influence to move Russia towards a cease-fire as quickly as possible. We think it would be extremely important if China were to be more visible there. The Chinese Government, as we can see, relies on the principles of national sovereignty and territorial integrity. We will then, of course, point out to them that this is now very true of Ukraine. We also point out to them that the economic crisis that is now arising from the major problems surrounding Ukraine and aggression can, of course, also affect China. We shall therefore continue to do so both bilaterally and multilaterally. The EU will do the same at the forthcoming EU-China summit. That is not a summit with all 27 countries, but with institutions. By doing so, we make it clear that China's constructive role is not a favour to the West, and that this is not at the expense of our commitment to other tensions in the relationship with China, such as human rights and unfair trade. Those tensions must all be addressed as well. Mr. Chairman. Then maybe a few more things. If the European Union is called upon as an institution to participate in the negotiations, the EU is ready to do so. But at the moment there is very close contact between the EU Member States, but certainly also with Ukraine. Yesterday, the already mentioned Hoekstra had a long talk with Kuleba, Ukraine's Foreign Minister. I myself had contact with Zelensky the day before yesterday in the run-up to the visit to Turkey. It is also true that Michel, the President of the European Council, Scholz, the Chancellor of Germany, and Macron, the President of France, consult Putin very regularly. The question in that context is what is the focus of the summit that is coming. A lot of MPs, including Sjoerdsma, Van Dijk, Kamminga and others, asked that question. It is an extraordinary Summit in the context of Russian aggression in Ukraine. The consequences of the Russian invasion on Ukraine will be discussed, as well as on the alliance, both for the present and for the longer term, as far as that is concerned. We will, of course, express the alliance's support for Ukraine, both politically and financially, but also militaryly, with what we can now do by providing military resources and further strengthening NATO's deterrent and defence in response to this new reality. It is important that American President Joe Biden is physically present at the summit. A joint statement will be published. This will also be done at the European Council with the EU Member States. It is foreseen that Biden is also present. In the case of the Netherlands, we are committed to this solidarity, humanitarian and, of course, economic and military at the NATO summit. It is also important to strengthen and maintain the alliance: unity and co-ordinated cooperation with partners, such as the European Union. Further steps are also important to ensure that NATO can increase defence and deterrent. I will also draw attention tomorrow to the continuing preparation of NATO for all conceivable scenarios. The right decision-making has been secured. NATO is a military and political alliance with a record since 1949. Decisions shall be taken on the basis of political-military advice from the NATO staff. Of course, the deployment of troops always requires a political decision by consensus in the NAR, the North Atlantic Council, where ambassadors normally do the work. Among other things, Mr Amhaouch's question was what NATO could do more in that context. I think we are doing the best we can right now, as far as possible. Much more would entail the risk of direct confrontation between NATO and Russia in the military sense. We will continue to work hard to deliver military goods, humanitarian aid and medicines, and we will continue to work on sanction packages. Maybe I'll come back to that. Within the alliance, NATO has for years supported both political and practical reforms in Ukraine through a trust fund, to which the Netherlands has also contributed, cooperation on interoperability and joint exercises and, of course, very important, in hybrid threats. Obviously, the situation has changed since the invasion. In that context, the no-fly zone is not on the table, I say to Mr Sjoerdsma, however difficult it is, because it is the conviction that this would indeed be an escalation with the risk of direct confrontation. Then the future. That was also a question from Mr Sjoerdsma. We cannot see exactly what is going to happen now and what it means for our relationship with Putin and the Russian regime. We must point out that we did not impose these sanctions for nothing. Would it be possible to hope for a sort of negotiated solution between Russia and Ukraine at this time..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... If that were a solution that we believe would be too much at gunpoint, under a massive Russian threat, it would not be automatic that the sanctions should expire. NATO, the European Union, America and the United Kingdom will then have to make a joint assessment of the significance of this possible agreement. Anyway, let us hope that it comes to that and let us hope that it has a form that does not give us the impression that it has come under such pressure that Ukraine has gone down its knees. There is no reason at the moment to accept this, because Ukraine is negotiating extremely tight and precise.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u147	I have a specific question about the NATO summit. Slovakia has indicated its willingness to supply S-300 ground-to-air weapons to Ukraine, if alternative arms were to be supplied from NATO. That has happened by now. There is a German-Dutch contribution with a Patriot system. Turkey also has these systems. Does the Netherlands support the delivery of such weapons to Ukraine? I think the Prime Minister is right to say that NATO cannot set up a no-fly zone, but Ukraine can de facto do so with the delivery of such weapons.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u148	I need to be very precise about that. NATO has no position in that. They're bilateral deliveries. NATO allies support Ukraine on a bilateral basis through the supply of all kinds of military equipment. Moreover, we do not make any statements about what we deliver. You will be informed confidentially. The same applies to Slovakia. Nor do we comment on deliveries from other countries. This problem occurred once in a concrete manner. That was when Poland gave the impression that through the United States they would no longer use MiG fighters from Poland. That was a few weeks ago. America had to do that declined back then. America said we're not gonna do that. That has come out in the open. That is why I do not want to comment on, support or express my concern if there is reason to do so about what other countries are doing in that context.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u149	Obviously. That brings me to the second point and to the point the Prime Minister just made. I agree with him when he says that if such an agreement is reached with Ukraine and Russia at gunpoint, then it does not automatically mean that these sanctions are off the table. I very much agree with that. In fact, you might ask yourself whether an agreement is possible at all, given what Putin has done now, which could remove all sanctions. That brings me to two questions. Question one is really: is there a consensus within the European Union and within the transatlantic alliance as to what the purpose of these sanctions is, to which we want to move Putin, and what steps should he take to alleviate them? The second is whether this Prime Minister considers it possible for us to return to normal relations with Putin's regime at all. The answer to this question makes a lot of difference for what comes next.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u150	That second question is extremely difficult to answer. You can't say no to that categorically. I can only say that it is extremely problematic. It's extremely problematic. I do not want to say a categorical no here, but I cannot now find a path or think that leads to a normalization of diplomatic relations with Putin. But I'm not saying no categorically, because you don't know exactly how it develops in the next few weeks and months. With regard to sanctions, the objective is to restore Ukraine's territorial integrity and sovereignty in full. The goal is to withdraw Russia completely from Ukraine. Of course, a discussion should then take place on what recovery is needed in Ukraine. There's humanitarian damage there. But apart from the terrible humanitarian disaster that is taking place, there is also material damage. Of course, we can't completely check if the messages are true, but if you see the messages, photos and images from Marioepol... Marioepol is one of the most beautiful cities in that part of Europe, with a large Greek minority, with a huge cultural and social tradition. That city's been shot to shit. We know that all kinds of smaller villages and cities have been hit very hard. We've got less footage of that. Of course there are reports about Charkov. It's all really horrible. That will, of course, have to be part of the discussion on our part whether you are able to alleviate those sanctions again if Russia withdraws fully. This will definitely include a very substantial recovery payment. There's no other way.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u151	That too is right, but that also raises questions of course. The Prime Minister says that Russia must withdraw completely from Ukraine. I agree. But does the Prime Minister also explicitly say that the Russian troops must leave the Donbas, from Luhansk and from Donetsk, where they have now been explicitly under the title "green males" since 2014? That is a very strong demand. The second question that arises from this is: if we go to that reconstruction, will the assets of the Central Bank which have been frozen in France possibly be in favour of the reconstruction of Ukraine, given the enormous challenge it is facing? Of course, peace and a ceasefire must first be achieved, but building that country will require billions, billions and billions. They have to come from somewhere, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u152	The second concerns another issue that I would like to deal with: sanctions. There's a difference between freezing and confiscating. There is also a difference in law. I don't think I'm going to answer the other question in detail either. I do not want to create the wrong picture in the world if we follow this debate. This is of course happening in the Netherlands, but perhaps that is happening here and there outside the Netherlands as well. I want to avoid the idea that the second-largest foreign spokesperson in the Lower House and the Prime Minister have been free to philosophize about what it could be. I think we agree on the broad thrust, and that is complete withdrawal and repair of the damage. The question is how exactly this relates to developments in Ukraine since 2014 and how it relates to a possible peace agreement, because that should be there if there is full withdrawal. Let us hope that we have the luxury of being able to look into this and determine with each other what we think of it. But I don't want to do these negotiations for Zelensky here, or frame it all up. That depends on too many variables that we cannot fully oversee at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u153	I do not believe that the whole world is following this debate breathlessly, but it is nevertheless very important that there is precision in the demand for Putin. If you leave it too vague and if you let this sort of thing go, it could end very well with the idea that he can actually get away with cutting parts of Ukraine back, because that would be an adequate answer to what the European Union has put on the table. Putin has already given that idea to his earlier invasion of Georgia and the annexation of Crimea. I'd think that was unwise of me. That's one. That is a comment and if the Prime Minister does not agree, that is fine. The second is: at the same time as all this, the Netherlands also supports investigations into human rights violations and war crimes. That goes somewhere at the International Criminal Court in The Hague. We all know that. That's just a very big chance. How does the Prime Minister see that? How does he see the trial in which Putin and his cabal will be charged in The Hague in relation to the question of how we can ever alleviate the economic sanctions, as long as these people are not standing in front of the fence?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u154	Again, I understand very well what Mr Sjoerdsma is saying and I think that the scenario contained in his questions is a imaginable scenario, without saying that that is the scenario. I do not want to make a harsh statement about this either, because that is ultimately a matter that should be dealt with in the legal column, i.e. at the ICC and elsewhere. The Netherlands is one of the initiators of establishing a coordination mechanism between all the different initiatives that exist around truth finding. We have initiatives at the UNHCR, at the UN itself, but we are also working very hard in other places to collect and log material, so that we can identify human rights violations and make them part of this whole process. It must then take place. It can lead to a certain outcome. Mr Sjoerdsma outlines an outcome that is conceivable, but I do not want to make a categorical statement about it. This does not increase the chances of a successful course of justice. He can do that as a parliamentarians, but I think I need to be a little more careful about that. Mr President, a few more things. The Dutch arms supplies. We will continue to do everything we can to help Ukraine. Several deliveries have taken place. We'll see what we can do at a time based on the requests that exist. The Chamber shall be informed of this confidentially. Then, like you, I heard that Ryabkov, the Deputy Minister, said on 12 March that the Western arms shipments are classified as a legitimate target. That position was also expressed by Ambassador Sjoelgin. That is, of course, diametrically opposed to our view. Ukraine has the right to self-defense against this illegal invasion of the Russian Federation. In this context, arms supplies take place. That is also in line with the UN Charter. So these Russian threats are unwise. They are dangerous and NATO is very alert, in order to be able to defend the territory on the all-encompassing side. That is, once again, the qualification. Then there is Ukraine's wish for candidate status. You also saw the Versailles Declaration on this. The request was sent very quickly to the Commission with a request for an opinion. It usually takes a lot longer. There was a difference of opinion. Let's be honest about that. After a discussion, the consensus in Versailles was ultimately that we should take note of this and that there is a procedure for this. There is no fast track to membership or candidate membership. There's no such thing. We also have the stability in the Western Balkans to weigh. There are, of course, great sensitivities surrounding this issue. That is why both must be done. The Commission must come to an opinion, with the next steps, and at the same time we must work hard to work within the existing frameworks to further deepen relations with Ukraine from the European Union. Although these countries are not now under machine gunfire and artillery fire, they are also very concerned about Moldova and Georgia. Serbia. We do indeed regret the Serbian reaction to the aggression of the Russian Federation. They did support the UN resolution. Hopefully that will give us a new momentum. I agree that you would expect more from a candidate country. Mrs Kamminga asked that question. Serbia has been called upon to do so at EU level and has been called upon to do so at all levels. The Netherlands also participated in the European Union's demarche in Belgrade on this issue. Mr. Chairman. I think that answers the questions about the diplomatic side of the matter. On this last point of the candidate countries, Minister Hoekstra also argued at the Foreign Affairs Council last Monday to increase the pressure further. That was in line with the Kuzu motion adopted here in the House of Representatives. That from my side at this point. I'll get to the sanctions in a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u155	I share, of course, the Prime Minister's words about the potential candidate for Ukraine. I also understand that you are giving an answer to the case, namely: first the Commission has to assess this and then we come. We all know the state of Ukraine from before this war began. We also know that this war has put the whole world on its head and that the situation is different now. Can you say whether you support Ukraine's accession to the EU in principle or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u156	The Dutch Government takes the view that it is only after we have seen the Commission's views on this and the steps taken in the process that we will determine our place in this discussion. There was at some point the image that we would be against. We are neither against it nor in favour of it. We fully understand Ukraine's ambition in this respect, but we do not want EU membership and the process to become a political process. It should remain a bit of a boring process in my eyes. Therefore, the political process must take place in parallel, by further deepening the relationship between the European Union and Ukraine along the existing frameworks, such as the Eastern Partnership, the Association Agreement and the Free Trade Agreement with Ukraine. There's a lot more to go on. We can also do things in the form. One of the thoughts that lives is to hold a meeting of the President of Ukraine with the European Council on a certain regular basis. Those options are being explored. If you turn that membership into a political process, I think we'll have to pay the price later. This will not be understood in the Western Balkans, given the great irritation of Albania and northern Macedonia over the Bulgarian blockade of the candidate country for membership status for North Macedonia.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u157	I agree with all the words spoken by the Prime Minister. It shouldn't be a political process either. The process, of course, starts with a signal from the Council and the Heads of Government, as in 2003 against the Western Balkans, almost 20 years ago: we find, in principle, without a politicised process, that you are part of it if you ever meet the conditions. That is actually the question that we seem to be extending for a few weeks or maybe months. Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u158	I cannot completely reconstruct what we did in 2003, but every country in Europe can become a member of the European Union if it meets all the requirements: the Copenhagen criteria, absorption capacity and all the issues surrounding accession. In this sense, both in the Eastern Partnership and bilaterally with Ukraine, Ukraine's European ambition has been recognised several times. However, I do not believe that it is appropriate to say that 'we do or do not think it is desirable' or that of my colleagues at the moment. It was Pedro Sánches, the Prime Minister of Spain, who formulated that most eloquence in Versailles by saying: yes, do not make it a political process and keep it in the practical line as it is, also because of the sensitivities elsewhere. We have sent it to the Commission very quickly, and that is a signal in itself that we are living in a special time and that it is a special situation. We must, of course, acknowledge that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u159	Then I give the floor to Mr Van Houwelingen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u160	How does the answer to the Prime Minister's previous question, which does not exclude possible EU membership of Ukraine, relate to the campaign of less than six years ago around the EU Association Treaty? The Prime Minister said over and over again: no, no, the Association Agreement is not a stepping stone to Ukraine's membership of the European Union. That is what the Prime Minister has assured the people time and time again, and now six years later it is being discussed.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u161	That's both true. A great deal was said in the media about the association agreement. At some point, the solution has been chosen to just put all the points that have been claimed together. There had been a very decisive debate on television between Emile Roemer, the then group chairman of the SP, and, I thought, Diederik Samsom on that association agreement. Four of the six items negotiated later in the Declaration by the European Presidents and Heads of Government, meeting in the framework of the European Council, were discussed... That was in December and they said: this is our interpretation of the Treaty. Four of those elements came directly from that TV debate and one of those elements, one of those claims, was that this had to or would lead to whether it was a stepping stone to EU membership. That's not true. The EU Association Agreement is independent of the ambition that Georgia or Moldova or Ukraine or any other country in Europe, Norway or Switzerland, may have to join the European Union. They can all have them, and there's a separate procedure for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u162	Thank you, but as the Prime Minister is no doubt aware, we call it an EU integration treaty, because Ukraine must adopt all European legislation. That is also what the text of the Treaty states. And now less than six years later, there is serious talk of possible EU membership of Ukraine. For me, that's incomprehensible. Then that was a stepping stone, wasn't it? I was also involved in this campaign and what we have always said is: if this is not a stepping stone, what the hell is a stepping stone?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u163	This has nothing to do with a stepping stone. At that time, too, Ukraine could have decided to apply for membership, regardless of the association agreement. And that was put into procedure. Georgia and Moldova are independent of the Association Agreement. That has nothing to do with each other, and that was also recorded in the interpretative declaration according to Vienna Convention Law in December 2016. We have done so in response to the question of how we would deal with the outcome of the referendum. At that time, a majority of the House of Representatives, both here and in the Upper House, got behind them. And I think that's right, because it has nothing to do with each other either.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u164	Still, I'd like some more precision. What does "no political trial" mean? I see that the Italian Prime Minister has not been very happy with the words of the Spanish Prime Minister, who is simply shouting: I think Ukraine should become a member of the European Union. Does "no political process" mean that this process is going through, independently of what is currently happening in Ukraine? It will certainly be a factor in whatever negotiations are going to take place. NATO membership is clear. Zelensky is also willing to take another position. However, EU membership in the future is something that is going to play a role in this. In that sense, it is still a political issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u165	It is still a political issue, but the process of accession to the European Union would not, as far as I am concerned, be... This should not be based primarily on a political "rational" but on the agreements we made when establishing... Well, at least in connection with the Maastricht Treaty, arising from the idea of the Treaty of Rome, namely that countries in Europe could, in principle, join the European Union in sufficient conditions, just as it did at the beginning of this century with ten countries. They were added and included countries which were part of the former Warsaw Pact, the Eastern bloc. That was a very big step. It is also true that there is a difference of opinion. That's right. No, we saw that! Countries on the eastern border are very different from countries like Germany, France, Spain and the Netherlands. That's right. There are differences of opinion and that is, of course, inherent in the European Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u166	Of course, but with this, the scenario is also conceivable that, if this conflict lasts much longer, the number of Member States will grow which believe that Ukraine's candidacy can be an important move for the European Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u167	That would then be in the form of expressing a wish. The treaty does not provide for an express train to candidate membership. There's no such thing. That's not gonna happen. Mr. Chairman. Then I will continue with the second issue: sanctions. Maybe I can make two preliminary remarks on that. One is that Belgium is occasionally referred to because of the very large amount that is blocked there. This is due to the fact that the main financial service providers SWIFT and Euroclear are both located in Belgium. In France, for example, 885 million are frozen at the moment. That amount also includes the goods. As you know, the Netherlands only has a reporting obligation for financial institutions, not for companies. That's what I wanted to say in advance. Then I come to the questions that have been asked on the subject of sanctions. I will start with the question of how the cabinet will direct this. Rightful question. This week, we decided to set up a government-wide steering committee led by the coordinating department of Foreign Affairs to further promote policy clarity. I think that's important. Then the specific question: are you actively looking for the oligarchs? All persons and entities included in the penalty list shall be subject to the freezing of their funds and shall also be subject to an entry ban. All financial institutions and companies in the Netherlands must comply with this requirement. They must also look through the constructions to see if there are sanctioned persons behind it. Mr Van Dijk's question on confidentiality is also behind that. Infringement of sanctions is an economic offence. It is then up to the D.A. and the FIOD to take action there. We will, of course, continue to discuss further sanctions against oligarchs in the EU. Then there was a question from a number of MPs about the enforcement of sanctions. I cannot comment here on criminal investigations into companies that violate sanctions. That's up to the D.A. I can't even report whether such an investigation is ongoing or not. That's only gonna be known when the D.A. reports on this. The D.A. is investigating and enforcing criminal law in the event of infringement of penalty rules. That is what you saw today in the Fiod's report on the seizure of 137 million. How can we make the existing sanctions work better? There was also a request for the amendment of the Sanction Act. I would like to stress here that sanctions are currently unprecedented in our history in terms of size and the number of sectors affected by them. I agree with Sjoerdsma and others that the way in which the Sanction Act is now implemented can be improved. They're working hard on that, too. This does not mean that it does not necessarily meet the requirements, but there are indeed concerns about implementation. That is also one of the reasons for tighter coordination. It is also important to see whether supervision and reporting should be broader than financial sanctions alone. Overruled made a comment on that. We are examining whether measures should be taken in this area and, if so, which ones. We'll inform the Chamber about that. Of course a legislative change takes time, but you also need to see what you can do within the existing legislation. We are indeed, I say to Mr Van Dijk, represented through the European Union in the Transatlantic Task Force. We are talking about opportunity to participate in this on our own initiative. The Netherlands also participates in the European Union's Freeze and Seize Task Force aimed at oligarchs. The idea of a trust fund is very sympathetic, but today the Foreign Minister has informed the Chamber in the context of, I thought, the Foreign Affairs Council report that sanctions are monitoring the freezing of funds and economic resources. Expropriation or criminal proceedings, which you're actually asking for if you want to add to a trust fund, are other matters. You can't just do that. Of course, in a rule of law, it is a crucial element that the appropriate legal procedures are followed with the appropriate legal elements. That is without prejudice to the fact that we will continue to hit the Kremlin and the oligarchs. Sigrid Kaag, the finance minister, reported yesterday already the progress made in recent days on the freezing of financial resources. We will continue to do so, and we will continue to inform you about it. Within the European Union, the responsibility for the enforcement of sanctions lies as follows. Member States should transpose EU sanctions into national legislation. They are responsible for enforcement. In the Netherlands, this is regulated by sanctions. The competent authority shall be designated per sanction measure. Mr. Chairman. I say to Mr Van Dijk that we are very much in favour of abolishing the system of gold passports. We also support this at EU level. The Netherlands has no mandate to take away the passports already issued, because we do not issue them ourselves. These passports are the property of the issuing State. Only the State providing these passports can take those passports. Mrs Koekkoek asked whether there was any indication of the effect of the sanctions. They are only three weeks old and the consequences still need to crystallize. But it is clear that the Russian economy has been hit hard. The rouble has fallen 30% and the central bank's interest rate has increased to 20%. There has been the highest inflation since the 1990s. International reserves are largely frozen and Russian shares are dumped. Many companies shut down their operations in Russia, including very large industrial companies. The direct impact on Russia's behaviour on the battlefield must be seen. That is still disappointing at the moment, but perhaps we cannot expect that to be the case. Mr. Chairman. Finally, what else could we do? Three things are always mentioned: gas, oil and ports. For the Netherlands, we have no taboos on all three points. I also discussed this in Lithuania and Poland, and yesterday with Erdogan in Turkey. We have to do this wisely. It is not the case that refineries in Eastern Europe can simply switch from Ural oil to other oil. Moreover, the question is: what exactly is such a sanction gonna do, because oil is quite easy to ship in another way. Maybe that will happen against a big discount and then it will have effect again. We are absolutely open to imposing a sanction on this, but in such a way that we do not shut down parts of Europe from security of supply. This risk exists in particular in parts of Eastern Europe. Gas is, of course, much more complicated, because its dependence is really greater. In some countries this dependence is very high, for example in Eastern Europe, Italy, Germany and the Netherlands. It is, of course, the task to reduce this dependence as quickly as possible. That is why we also support the line taken by the Commission in the RePowerEU communication. This will be further developed in May. We will continue to follow this closely ourselves through Rob Jetten, the Minister for Climate and Energy. We will do everything possible to speed up the processes. Mr. Chairman. I have one more question about the tax rulings. That is what Mr Omtzigt asked for. The IRS is also subject to the Sanction Act. One should not enter into relations with sanctioned parties and should not share information with other authorities on rulings. All this is covered by the duty of fiscal confidentiality. So much for the question put by Mr Omtzig on that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u168	First of all, I give the floor to Mr Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u169	Setting sanctions is one thing, but executing them is two. I read that EUR 45 billion of Russian assets can be frozen in the Netherlands. So that 400 million is pretty much a sloppy amount. Does the Prime Minister share the view that it is a good idea and that the government itself should look more actively for those oligarchs rather than companies and banks?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u170	We're looking at everything we can do within the existing regulations to tell you that. I just want to outline the comparison with France, which is four times bigger. We're at 400 million and they're at 850 million. With them that includes the companies and with us that is exclusive of the companies. We are only concerned with financial institutions. That's the defensive answer. The offensive answer is that Mr Van Dijk's appeal is understood.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u171	But in this interruption, I didn't mention France. I mentioned that 45 billion, the amount that would be found in the Netherlands by Russian oligarchs. Then 400 million isn't very much. My call is to get to work on that. Try to eliminate those asset and property structures, and those concealed structures in them, as much as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u172	In total, it's a sum that even adds up to 80 billion. These are the assets of all companies in the Netherlands with a Russian interest. That is not the importance that Russians have in these companies, which amounts to EUR 27 billion, according to statistics. That's a lot. These are assets on the balance sheet such as shares, participations in other companies, investments or real estate. Those assets could be overseas. To the extent that financial institutions have access to the assets of sanctioned persons, they must report this to the AFM and DNB. So that's the notification. Yesterday, about the state of these financial institutions, there was that letter from Sigrid Kaag, the Minister of Finance. It will be updated regularly. Those statistics do not include freezes by financial institutions and trust offices other than financial institutions, because they do not have those reporting obligations. But I told you, we set up this task force to see how we can further strengthen the implementation of sanctions and their enforcement. I would like to report, by the way, but perhaps it is known here that Madeleine Albright died. I just got word about this, but I can't look at my iPhone. You may have seen it during this debate. I think that's a very sad message. She was, of course, a wonderful woman, who we all respect very much. You might have seen it by now, but I could not, of course, look on the phone during the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u173	We did get that. It is a crazy transition, but I am now giving Mr Omtzig the floor for an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u174	The Prime Minister said in a subtle way that no new rulings are entered into with people who are subject to sanctions or with companies they own, I assume, but that the rulings themselves, where exactly who the owner is, where the money comes from and how it is fiscally structured, are not available to the sanctioning authorities. The government can make this available fairly easily, either through Article 10 of the Sanction Act or through Article 67 (3) of the General Law on State Taxes. Then the government can simply make an exception and say: these things must be made available in order to comply with the sanctions. Is the government prepared to ensure that the authorities supervising the sanctions have access to the tax information so that they know exactly who to freeze?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u175	In defence, I have, of course, fully prepared for the NATO Summit and the EU. I had seen at the European Council that there could also be questions about sanctions. I'm not avoiding it. I tried to answer it as best I could. But as is often the case between Mr Omtzigt and me, I already notice that he is now reaching a level or detail that he knows more about than I do. He even mentions the articles. So I say to him that we involve this in the task force and take that suggestion with us in the next letter. I can't look over that. I do not know otherwise than that the Tax Administration may not share information on rulings with other authorities, but again, Mr Omtzigt says that it may. I'd like to double-check that. I would therefore like to give that task force the opportunity to discuss that and to inform the Chamber of Representatives about it quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u176	This is a very strange answer. I'm going to tell you why it's a curious answer. They shared the details of their parents in the government with everyone and their mother. They're shared with the municipalities and with every executive agency she wanted and didn't want. The black lists at the Tax Office, the FSV, which were not allowed to exist, with 300,000 people on them, were shared with dozens of government agencies, for everything they could use them for. And now the privacy of the tycoons and the oligarchs of Russia is guaranteed at once, because we should not share their tax rules with those who are allowed to impose sanctions? That is, by the way, a public authority. So that is not privatised; that is within the government itself. That's really not true. I have had this debate with the Prime Minister before, in 2013 and 2014. That's when the question was on the table. So I really ask the government: please share those rulings with those who impose the sanctions, because that is what it says.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u177	Mr Omtzigt is making a big point of it. I understand that, too. I'm right about that, too. But I want to oversee it. I can't promise that right now. He's now sketching that it could be. Once again, I have not prepared for a debate on sanctions, because that is not what this debate is about; this debate is about the European Council. My political feeling led me to believe that these questions could come. So I have tried to prepare myself as well as possible for questions about sanctions, because of course I always try to serve the Chamber on other subjects as well. However, that does not apply to this specific question, whether the information of those rulings may be shared with other authorities. Mr Omtzigt says it's okay. I say to him that we will go into this point in the next update that comes to the Chamber of the task force in the Foreign Office.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u178	Fine, then we'll note as a commitment that it's headed for the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u179	I understand the commitment, but I'm still asking you to do it quickly. Because in the case of sanctions, of course, everyone is trying their best to hide their things and move them away, so that you don't have to wait a few weeks with them. I shall therefore put it to you today; I will say that here. I would also like to combat the point that it would not be about sanctions. I think that sanctions will really be the main issue at the European summit. Are they strict enough? Do we still have to do it in the field of energy or not? You're going to talk a long time about sanctions. I had one other unanswered question about sanctions. If a Dutch company wants to buy gas in Russia and that has to be dealt with in rubles... Ah, I see you have another proposal, Mr. Chairman. Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u180	Do you want me to answer it right away?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u181	If that fits into this cube, Mrs Koekkoek will be fine with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u182	It's gonna work. A report has indeed been published in the media that these gas payments should be made in roubles. That was also asked by Mr Sjoerdsma, Mrs Kamminga and others. We need more time to explain Russian requirements. It is true that it has appeared today in media reports, including how this relates to sanctioning legislation. In general terms, it is primarily for market players buying Russian gas to deal with it. In the contracts it is often agreed in which currency is to be paid. That is not easy to change. The cabinet cannot simply ban market players from concluding foreign currency contracts. If you wanted to ban payments in rubles, we would have to make new legislation, preferably at EU level. I can't make any promises about it right now, but we're really studying it. I admit that we will come back to that as soon as we know more about it in that sanction update.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u183	The annex to the letter on the European summit states that it is part of the sanctions that you should not do business with the Russian central bank. Surely that would be the central point where you buy rubles. If you buy a few rubles, you don't do it at a money exchange office around here in the Netherlands. That's what you do at the Russian central bank. Surely it is clear that these energy companies are not allowed to go to the Russian central bank to buy roubles for their transactions, because they then violate the Sanction Act?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u184	That's the question. It could very well be that the Sanction Act is already blocking that. That could be very good, but we're not sure. It's not necessarily the only route. That is why it may be possible for you to need new legislation, possibly at EU level. But we're looking at it. The news that would be asked is from this morning. I would ask Mr Omtzig to understand that we do not know exactly. But his question is understood and very understandable.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u185	My question was also about sanctions. I just heard the Prime Minister answer the question of what sanctions have been done so far if you look back. But my question was in my memory focused on looking ahead. As I understand it, there are proposals at the summit for new sanctions, namely a full embargo on energy imports, a trade embargo or pressure from third countries to impose sanctions. My question was: what effect will it have on the progress of the war if we consider new sanctions at such a summit? Of course, we can't write that out exactly, I understand that. But I would like to have an insight into the review framework. That is why I asked for a written reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u186	I think it would be more appropriate for us to come back to this in the report of this European Council. Then we do not have to send a separate letter and that is reflected in the European Council report. Maybe I can do that part of the question that way. Then it goes to the Chamber, but we use an existing format. Because what's going on, apart from putting pressure on third parties, is still about gas, oil and ports. No taboos on all three. But gas has a huge security of supply problem in the short term. This may be possible for oil in the shorter term, but there is also a risk for security of supply in the very short term. As far as ports are concerned, it only makes sense if you do so for all ports in Europe. It doesn't make much sense if you do that in Rotterdam and Antwerp and stay open. In addition, the more fundamental question of what to do with food would also be on the road. Are they still going out and going to Russia? That will be a very fundamental question. It's not that easy. We have now declared such massive sanctions that you are slowly in the corner of gas, oil and ports, where it really requires careful consideration.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u187	I think I understand the Prime Minister very well, because that was exactly my question. There is, of course, a limit to what economic sanctions can achieve. There is also a border, or an objective, which we all want, namely to support the Ukrainian negotiating position. That's what my question was about. To what extent can we test that? I hear the Prime Minister now also outline the dilemmas and I think that is good, but I also like to see, looking forward, what sanctions are doing to stop the progress of the war. In the short term, it may create a dilemma for the security of supply of certain energy products, but will it stop the war, quite simply put? I'm sketching it too simple right now; I understand that. But that's what I do to understand each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u188	I understand. The question is very real. I just do not think that you can just answer it, as Mrs Koekkoek says. Let me give you one example. Two weeks ago, the situation was that there was an enormous, massive pressure on Shell to stop using oil and gas from Russia. If that had happened at the time, you could have had a problem with diesel at the pumps in Poland and in the Baltic States. You need that diesel to drive the trucks with stuff, even through all sorts of corridors and roads or whatever they come up to, towards Ukraine. In that sense, it can bite you again immediately. This also has to do with how oil products are processed in Eastern Europe. The refineries are in many cases heavily dependent on that Ural oil, as it is called. You can't just rebuild it. Moreover, oil is also easier for Russia to sell in a different place, other than gas, which runs through the pipelines. We have to keep weighing that all the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u189	Well, then, rounding it up. I think it is good to get back to this in the report after this Council. In any case, I would appreciate it if this dilemma were properly outlined in the broader context, not by product but by the whole strategy from Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u190	We're gonna do our best! It's a challenge, but I get the question, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u191	There are some interruptions. First of all, Mr De Roon.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u192	The Prime Minister also spoke in this small block a few minutes ago about security of supply of energy. I have also asked some questions about this and perhaps they can be dealt with now. First of all, I asked for the security of supply of energy in the Netherlands to be put in place one and leave everything that puts that at risk. Secondly, I asked to agree that the government will compensate for the price increases in energy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u193	In fact, it was my idea to go into these questions about energy and security of supply in my next pile of answers. So if there are any other interruptions, my suggestion would be not to waste them, because I will return to them in my next pile.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u194	Okay. Then I'll look at Mrs. Piri.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u195	It is clear: at least there are no taboos from the Dutch cabinet on any sanctions. I would like to ask you about the sanctions on oil. The Prime Minister is actually pointing out that the most resistance lies with a number of Eastern European countries. But if I understand correctly from the media, it is exactly the same Eastern European countries that the Prime Minister just mentioned, namely Poland and the Baltic States, who are actually asking the most for it. Look at Bulgaria, too. Bulgaria has today indicated that they can convert the refineries in such a way that they could still process a 100% different type of oil from Russian oil. My question concerns the positioning of the Dutch cabinet. As far as arms supplies were concerned, we were really in the leading group; we wanted them very much and made a hard fist for them. So where is the Netherlands, apart from the fact that there is no taboo on it? Are we also actively advocating this in Brussels?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u196	Then we say on gas: beware; that is not possible. At ports we say: it only makes sense if you do it all together, and the big question we have to answer concerns the food. On oil we say: as soon as possible, and it can probably be quite fast. I think it can be done quite quickly, but I also hear the sounds from Eastern Europe. I also discussed it with Mateusz Morawicki, the Prime Minister of Poland, who himself outlined the dilemma of Ural oil to me, and that it is not possible for all refineries to simply switch over. Of course, that is not the only problem with oil supplies. It also has to do with countries in Western Europe that are partly dependent on it. With us all that is not so bad, but from the security of supply I will come back to that in a moment. But there are no taboos. It seems to me that of these three the oil is the lowest hanging fruit.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u197	I still have a follow-up question. You say 'as soon as possible', but that can take quite a long time because of the need to force negotiations to end the war as soon as possible. Does "no taboos" mean that there is no taboo in the Netherlands either, that different speeds occur, that some Member States stop importing oil from Russia rather than other Member States? Is that a imaginable scenario? Is the Netherlands prepared to defend this if "as soon as possible" is going to take too long?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u198	I can't see that right now. I will come back to that in the second term. I could imagine, I'm going to check whether I'm saying this right now, that countries are free to buy Russian oil or not. This is also often done through the big oil companies. But I want to know exactly, because it's been quite a while since I bought oil. No, I never really did. If I did that in my Unilever age, it was palm oil and not oil. So we're gonna figure out what the risks are there for the second term. By the way, let us not think that oil has a great effect, because that is the easiest way to lead. A country like India will probably take that Russian oil with a huge discount. Then you still have a financial effect, but not the effect you have on gas. With gas, the alternative is just not there.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u199	It is nice how we philosophize here about all kinds of sanctions, which are probably not going to have any effect at all. That is why BVNL is against all these sanctions. However, there is still an approved motion from BVNL to spare the Russian population as much as possible from these sanctions. The Russian people do not want this war, and the Ukrainian people do not want this war, but we are implementing sanctions that hit that population hard. The motion is there. The question is: how will the Prime Minister implement and highlight this motion at the European summit?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u200	That is one aspect of the policy. We try to hit the regime and not the population, but when we hit the regime, it is not entirely possible to avoid that we sometimes touch the population. That goes in a light sense from the fact that there are no more McDonald's burgers for sale, which can be seen over, up to and including in a much heavier sense, that people are lining up to withdraw money. That can have a slight impact, for example when there are no McDonald's burgers for sale. That can be seen, but it can also be much more intense, for example when people are waiting in line to withdraw money. It is not entirely preventable, but I also repeat here: we do not have a problem with the Russians, but with Putin and his cronies.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u201	Of course, we are in complete agreement. The question is only the next one. There's an approved motion. Then we can say here'sorry, sorry that the population is sometimes the victim', but how are we going to try to bring this motion to light? Then everyone knows that we prefer sanctions, but... At least I have no preference for sanctions at all, but if they are then imposed by a majority that wants them here, how are we going to prevent as much as possible from affecting the Russian population? Is there anything in mind for that? Is there a text? Is anyone being asked a question? How's that going?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u202	So this is one aspect that we weigh. If your oligarchs take away their yachts or their apartments in Biarritz, that doesn't affect the average Russian, but of course it affects the Russian that Maestro and Mastercard shut down Russia from all kinds of payment systems. I do not think that this was even the result of a sanction, but that was an initiative of those companies; I cannot fully see that. The impact of hitting the Russian central bank is, of course, enormous. That is a hugely strong sanction, which really affects the Russian economy, but it also has an indirect effect. The Russian economy was about the sum total of the three Benelux countries, but is still the sum total of the Netherlands and Luxembourg. The size of the Belgian economy in Russia has already been melted down by the sanctions. So that goes fast and it is inevitable that that also hits the average Russian. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the issue of energy security. I shall begin with the question that Mrs Koekkoek and others have been asking about. The guidelines on renewables and energy saving are part of the "Fit for 55" package. The Netherlands has a leading role in this. We call for these negotiations to be concluded as soon as possible in the Council, including the proposals for renewable energy and energy saving. We're part of a leading group. There is still opposition in a large group of Member States to the inclusion of a number of sub-targets. Over the next few weeks, we are going to look again at how we can shape the Dutch commitment to these directives in such a way that it contributes to the further acceleration of decision-making, and thus also to maintaining the level of ambition. This is, of course, a very relevant discussion in the context of energy dependence. Mr Bishop would like to stress a number of points concerning gas dependence: flexibility of climate targets, the suspension of the planned closure of nuclear power plants in Germany and Belgium and the promotion of biogas production. I'd like to look at it the other way around. In my view, the climate problem here is not the problem, but it may be very important to solve this crisis. The more energy we save and the more renewable energy we generate together, the less Russian gas we need. So I think these things can be mutually reinforcing. Belgium has already said that these plants remain open longer. As you know, there is no taboo for the Dutch government on nuclear energy, so I am glad that Belgium is doing so. In Germany there are more and more voices in favour of it, but of course it is a national matter. They make their own choices about that. I can, of course, imagine that these countries will once again consider this issue in the current context, but I am not going to say anything about it, because then I will interfere with internal affairs in other countries. Then there was the demand to label manure as a fertilizer substitute. The cabinet is in favour of that. It submitted a request to the Commission. Further information will be provided from the Ministry of Agriculture and the Minister for Agriculture. Mr Amhaouch asked a question about the reduction of strategic dependencies and policy in this area: what can the Growth Fund mean? Cabinet policy aims to minimise, or at least mitigate, the risks posed by strategic dependencies to public interests. It will be particularly important to do so at EU level, given the interconnectedness of the internal market and the importance of the internal market for our businesses and our economy. Energy dependencies have been extensively addressed in yesterday's debate with Minister Jetten for Climate and Energy on security of gas supply. For the Netherlands, Fit for 55 is an important pillar for reducing energy dependency. This also partly refers to the answer to Mrs Koekkoek's question just now. In addition, greater commitment at EU level obviously means diversification. The important thing is LNG, which we of course use massively. In the longer term, we will of course focus on hydrogen, preferably green hydrogen, but as an intermediate phase, LNG will also be important in the transition. We are also going to speed up this as the Netherlands continues. For the National Growth Fund, of course, the aim is to increase sustainable earning capacity by investing in knowledge, development and research, in general development and in innovation. These projects will thus also help to avoid long-term strategic dependencies. I cannot now say which projects they are, because we have, of course, said that the cabinet is not going to make a political decision. There is an expert committee on this which is not under pressure from Mr Amhaouch or Mr Rutte, and that is a good thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u203	This is, of course, good to hear. In the corona crisis we saw that we had a lot of dependencies in the world with all kinds of materials, supplying medicines and so on. This Ukraine crisis with Russia brings it up to speed. Under the French Presidency, strategic autonomy is one of the priorities. My question is this. The Prime Minister mentions a number of issues, but what is the view on the strategic autonomy of the Netherlands under this European agenda? Is the Chamber gonna get any of that? Are we gonna share a vision? These are important steps, not for tomorrow, but for the short and medium term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u204	This obviously affects more than energy dependence. There is also the broader issue of, for example, our entire ICT industry, our chip production and so on. I believe that the compromise that France and the Netherlands have found can also be the European bridge. This is often the case: if we agree, and this happens more and more often, then that is often the European bridge. And at this point, the idea is that this strategic autonomy should be there, but open, in the sense that we continue to connect with Korea, Japan, Canada, America and other economies that are very innovative. Then you prevent the fortress from becoming Europe, not that France wants it, but the risk of strategic autonomy is that it can also be seen a bit inward. And they agreed with us that it should be a strong Europe, for example when it comes to producing the highest level of ICT, chips and so on, look at ASML, but also at the clusters around Grenoble in France, around Leuven and around Eindhoven, but that it should be open, so in a very close cooperation with the four countries outside Europe that I mentioned.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u205	This too is of course a nice example, but I'm still trying to fish and look for the total picture. What will the Netherlands bet on? The Chips Act, for example, once shared with the Prime Minister and a paper was made about it. But now it is a priority on the European agenda. So I'm looking for how the cabinet will take the Chamber with which choices the Netherlands will make and where we're going to rebalance things. Is that from the Prime Minister or from certain ministers? And can we have a debate about that sometime?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u206	Here lies the lead in Economic Affairs and Climate. When it comes to energy, of course it's Rob Jetten, but I think it's Micky Adriaans when it comes to the broad economy. So I will also pass this part of the debate on to her and I will ask her if she will be able to discuss it in greater detail on another occasion. It also regularly has its debates with the Chamber. Maybe it's good to give a little more colour to that discussion. Let me now turn to the question of dependence on Russian gas. Rob Jetten, the Minister for Climate and Energy, said last night in the debate that no problems are expected for now, given the end of winter and the resulting decline in gas demand, and given the current filling levels of the salvages. We're gonna have to get to work on the raises. It is very important that they are properly filled for the next winter and thereafter. It undertook to inform the Court of Justice in the near future of the concrete measures taken in respect of gas deposits. So that'll come back. If this suddenly leads to the sudden closing of a gas crane, then there is the Protection and Recovery Plan, but of course we do not want to go there at all. This is only true if there is a physical shortage of gas, and that is not the case at the moment. Then the financing of RePowerEU. I agree with Mrs Kamminga that we need to look at the existing instruments, such as the use of unused resources from the previous MFF, the multiannual financial framework, and the flexible use of resources under the new framework. Moreover, there are no concrete proposals from the Commission for financing the plans. The forthcoming European Council is not going to take any decisions on it either. But this will come back in May to perhaps an extra or a planned European Council and we will immediately inform the Chamber about it. The debate on the energy bill has been sufficient today, so I am not going to repeat it. I have just answered the question about phasing out the dependencies at the time of the interruption. There was a question from Mr Van Dijk as to whether there could be a construction such as the United States that set up with Iran in 2012 so that we do not add extra weight to the Russian Federation. This sanction seems logical because Russia will no longer be able to access oil revenues, but it will increase the risk of Russian counter-measures in the energy sector. This could have an impact on the EU countries and then I will return to the discussion with Mrs Piri just now. We have to look at that wisely, but there are no taboos. That in terms of energy. I come now to the issue of refugees.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u207	There is another question from Mr De Roon on energy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u208	The Prime Minister speaks a lot of words here, but he does not go into my question specifically to say that the security of supply for the Dutch is simply one in place and that the cabinet will leave everything that is dangerous for it or what stands in the way of it. And just say that you will compensate for the price increases on energy created by this situation. You can promise us that easily, can't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u209	No, not the way you put it. Security of supply is extremely important and is therefore very high, but you cannot say here that this is necessarily number one. Security of supply must always be seen in a balance with the geopolitical situation that exists. You could have total security of supply in the very short term and thus harm it in the slightly longer term, for example because we would stop greening our economy, as Mr De Roon suggested. In the longer term, you will have another risk with the security of supply. I think it is always a balance, where security of supply is, of course, a crucial factor. How are you gonna do that, say in advance that you're always gonna compensate for all the price increases? We don't have a money tree! That is what the debate was about this afternoon. There are, of course, limits to what you can do to compensate for sharply rising energy prices.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u210	That's all very nice. This week, the Prime Minister has manifested himself as an international government leader with allure to move things in the right direction at international level, but once it comes to certain commitments that are really in the interest of the Dutch citizen, the Prime Minister suddenly does not give up at home and it is all weighed up with international affairs. You can't break iron with your hands, I understand that, but anything you can bend, you should bend. And when it comes to money, there's plenty of money! We've seen that in the last few months. There is plenty of money for non-existent problems such as the nitrogen problem that only occurs in the Netherlands and nowhere else. For the time being, therefore, you can move forward in compensating for the price increases caused by this situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u211	I want to correct one thing: when I'm on the road, I'm on the road for the Netherlands. If I wanted something so badly internationally, I would have tried to be President of the European Council, the European Commission or whatever. I don't want any of that. I will continue to do this, at least as long as the voter agrees. But I do that for the Netherlands. Why do I do that? It is the duty of the cabinet, of me, to keep the Netherlands safe, even now, in an extremely unstable world. I believe that as a member of NATO and of the European Union, we should play our part. We are not as big as Germany or France, but we do play a role and something is also expected of us. Then you also try to manifest yourself internationally on behalf of the Netherlands. I do this for the Netherlands in the belief that if Europe is stable and NATO is strong, it is in the interests of the Netherlands. We're too small to protect ourselves on our own. We must be members of these strong alliances. Thank you very much for the word "allure".. I have noted that but I do not do that for my own gain. I really do that because I think that way I will fill my job well in the interests of the Netherlands. I'm glad I can make that nuance. Furthermore, the Dutch government believes that we should do everything we can to reduce the rising energy prices as much as possible for people with a small scholarship and for people with a very normal middle income who are terribly affected by it. We can't do more than muffle. The 2.8 billion, but then we are going to repeat the debate this afternoon, last week and the week before, is an attempt to dampen, not to remove the problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u212	Mr. De Roon, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u213	I don't think the Prime Minister is doing it all for his own good. I immediately assume that he does that for the way he looks at the Netherlands and for how he thinks that the Netherlands is best served by it. But that leaves the next question. You may have moved a bit internationally or moved a bit further, but what have you done for the ordinary Dutchman in the past week?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u214	What I am trying to do for all Dutch people is to ensure that the Dutch Government makes the contribution that we can make to the weather somewhat de-escalation of Russia's terrible, aggressive action in Ukraine. It is a direct threat to this country if we accept the violation of international law and of all international security arrangements after the Second World War and after the fall of the Soviet Union in this part of the world. If we accept that they can be violated, that is a direct threat to Dutch territory. It's a direct threat. It is the responsibility of the Dutch cabinet to keep this country safe. We can't do that alone. We must do this in strong alliances within the European Union, NATO and the UN. Mr. Chairman. There were a few questions about the refugees. Unfortunately, it is impossible to assess how this is going to develop. The situation is variable. It's hard to make an assessment. Of course, Ukrainian refugees can move freely through the Schengen area. We are committed to the best possible monitoring. I will also raise this in the European Council tomorrow. There was also a question about legal status. You also spoke about this with the Secretary of State for Justice and Security this morning. He is going to inform you in writing, so I would like to refer to that. We're just charting that very precisely. Furthermore, the Netherlands now contributes a small 40 million to humanitarian aid, deployed along a number of lines. This makes our contribution by far the largest Dutch humanitarian contribution to a recent specific crisis. This amount is also added to the unintended contributions to the Red Cross, the UN organisations and the funds operating in Ukraine and the surrounding area. Mr. Chairman. With regard to the corridors, we are working with the European Union to get a humanitarian resolution adopted by the United Nations General Assembly. This resolution focuses on humanitarian corridors, access and compliance with humanitarian war law. The UN and the Red Cross are in the lead with Ukrainian authorities to negotiate this. With a coalition of equals, we offer political and diplomatic support, including with other EU Member States, wherever and whenever possible, to strengthen the commitment of those humanitarian players. The UN and the Red Cross are there in the lead. The Netherlands provides support to international humanitarian organisations that make every effort to get support from those who need help. They work with local organisations who know the situation best. Of course, this also happens through the UN and the Red Cross, as reported. Then the provision of state real estate for the reception of refugees. As you know, we are now working towards 50,000 shelters. As part of this, the Minister of Housing is investigating where state real estate can be prepared as a reception location. Then there are a few questions about security of supply outside energy, including food. I believe that this European Council will also address food security. We have great concerns about food security, especially in developing countries. The interests of these countries must be borne in mind very carefully. It is therefore essential that trade flows for agricultural products remain open in the European Union and worldwide. The cabinet's on that, too. We invest more than 300 million dollars a year in global food security, so that we can reach millions of malnourished people, but also poor farmers. We are, of course, very concerned about this. The Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation will discuss with this Chamber tomorrow the humanitarian effects of the Russian attack on Ukraine. So it will certainly come back there. Then the question was: which banks handle the payment of Russian grain? I have been informed that I have to say that I cannot see that exactly in this period of time, because we do not know it at the moment. We'll come back to it later. So that question's gonna be parked for a while. We'll get back to that as soon as we can. Then on the adjustment of the farmer-to-food strategy and the Green Deal in the context of food security. This will certainly come back in the discussion with Henk Staghouwer, the Minister for Agriculture, Nature and Food Quality, including within the framework of the Agriculture and Fisheries Council. At present, food security in Europe is not at stake. This is confirmed by a recent study by Wageningen University. We are, of course, very concerned about the enormous price increases in energy, fertilizer and raw materials. The European Union is the world's largest food producer and also one of the largest exporters. For most products we are self-sufficient, also for wheat and grain. The European food system is therefore robust, but at the same time I stress the importance of keeping the European food system resilient in the long term and thus making it less dependent on, for example, critical raw materials from outside the European Union. That is why I think we should also try to stick to the long-term goals. Of course, we will always look at this in the light of current developments. Finally, there was another question on critical raw materials, such as lithium. However, we can see that the war in Ukraine demonstrates the urgency of increasing the security of supply of critical raw materials. It is an important priority for the Netherlands, and this fits in with the idea of open strategic autonomy. There is a great interlinkage of the internal market. This is why it is important to pursue policies primarily at European level. The Commission has previously published an action plan on critical raw materials. It looks, among other things, at the diversification of trade flows and the stimulation of circularity. The European Council will also reiterate the need to mitigate or eliminate risks of strategic dependencies. That includes those critical raw materials. That was it in terms of security of supply outside of energy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u215	You have an interruption from Mrs. Van der Plas.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u216	I'd like to give the Prime Minister something. Food security is not just about sufficient food for our Dutch and European fellow citizens. It's also about access to food. With rising food prices, you can see that people can't buy some messages anymore. I would like to stress that this is also dealt with with rising food prices, but certainly also in the light of the farmer-to-eat strategy. It could be that this farmer-to-fork strategy also increases food prices. As I said before, food is a first need for life. Everyone just needs access to food. I would like to give the Prime Minister the opportunity to make sure that he does so in the EU and not just to pay attention to the volume of food we have in Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u217	Agreed. Maybe I can sum it up so briefly: once. Mr. Chairman. Then there were questions about Poland and Hungary. In short: yes, the Netherlands continues to adhere to the legal conditions for the recovery plan. This is particularly happening around Poland. That's where it's topical. That has not yet been submitted to the Council. If it is submitted to the Council, it is a QMV decision. Of course, the Chamber will be informed when that happens. We urge the Commission to ensure concrete, future-proof milestones on legal independence, in particular. It must be in line with the case law that just came out of the Court of Justice in Luxembourg. The Commission does not stand in the way of further launching the MFF rule of law mechanism. The MFF Rule of Law Regulation is not contrary to EU law, especially after the Court has ruled on it. The third is that the Netherlands is committed to keeping infringement proceedings on open cases concerning the independent judicial procedure in Poland and Hungary on the agenda. Mr President, may I briefly answer the other questions in this area? Perhaps I have therefore removed Mr Van der Lee's question and he no longer needs to interrupt. The question is: you have a very complicated situation around Ukraine; how do you do that? Well, actually just like I talked to Morawicki last Monday in Poland. On the one hand, you have the terrible situation with the Ukrainian refugees and the fact that Poland is prepared to accommodate large numbers of refugees. We are very impressed by this and they need to be helped financially from Europe. That is what Europe is doing, and that is how it should be. At the same time, we want to ensure that Poland complies with the rule of law. They specifically asked if you should link the money for the shelter to that too. I wouldn't be for that. I think that makes the humanitarian situation worse. Nor would it show solidarity towards Poland. I really think these are two separate tracks. The Commission will make funds available to help with the large flow of refugees to Poland. I think it would be very unwise for you to say that this can only be done if the judiciary is fully restored. That is not the position of the Dutch Government. Financial assistance in this crisis is independent of the Corona Restoration Fund. The amounts are also incomparable. You are now talking about a first 500 million that is available across Europe. Maybe that's gonna catch up. At the Corona Restoration Fund for Poland, you're talking about over 35 billion. So these are also totally different quantities. I do not think it would be helpful for the reception of people in Poland if we were to link these two things up. Then the questions of Sjoerdsma. Let's go with his first point. I have just given the answer to his second point. We must prevent it from being at the expense of the refugees. On his third point, I agree with him again. Also agree with Mrs Kamminga on what she said about not keeping corrupt leaders in the saddle.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u218	Mr Van der Lee was of course first, but I am also curious. What were the points again? I don't remember.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u219	Sjoerdsma made three points. He said: no funds to Poland that they are not entitled to because of violations of the rule of law. Agreed. Two. Money for shelter must also be a breakthrough in the Pact. So he didn't link that to the rule of law, but to a breakthrough in the Pact on Migration. I don't think that's wise. I think you should disconnect that. The French Presidency is also very active in achieving this breakthrough on the migration pact. And then the money has to go to shelter and not to the PiS election campaign. This is precisely what is so important that we work together to ensure that EU funds are spent properly and with integrity. The mayor of Warsaw also had interesting thoughts about this, to see how you can channel it partly through the NGOs. This will also be highlighted in Brussels.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u220	Then I'll go to Mr. Van der Lee.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u221	In itself, it is right for the Prime Minister to repeat the position of the Netherlands. We know him. It's consistent. But in the meantime, other things are happening. I have just mentioned a tweet by the Minister for Economic Development of Poland. He says: there is actually already an agreement; the money from the Recovery Fund is heading our way. The Minister has two summits. He's not going to the European summit unprepared. He knows whether we still have enough support from others or not. Surely it cannot be said about Ukraine's accession to the European Union that there should be no political process, and that it should be calculated as a political process when it comes to defending the rule of law in Member States, and that the Netherlands should be brought to a close?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u222	I can't rule that out. I don't have any clues for that, but you can't rule it out. That's a QMV decision. I didn't see that tweet. It is not known to me, nor is it official. We will check again if there would be an agreement with Poland. That's news to me. We strongly urge the Commission on these three aspects: the judges must go back, the disciplinary chamber or special chamber set up must go away, and the legislation must also be adapted. That's three different things. The Commission is looking at how it can do that. I do not rule out the fact that she is putting forward proposals to link that to the milestone, but at some point she will recover all the money if Poland does not meet the requirements. How that's gonna work, we don't know. As soon as there is an agreement between the Commission and Poland, the Dutch cabinet must determine its position. We'll be tough on that, but that's all I can tell you. I don't know if we're gonna make it in Europe. You've got a pretty good chance there's a QMV voting us over. It could be.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u223	The last interruption for Mr Van der Lee.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u224	Let's get to that last point of being overvoted. Does that also mean, in a formal sense, that there is no right of veto?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u225	No. Country implementing decisions are indeed subject to a QMV decision. I must honestly say that the Commission has done it very precisely so far. I think the Commission is trying to get somewhere with Poland. If that is the case, I also think that Mr Van der Lee and I, and all of us, should see whether that is the perfect solution or whether it is close to the perfect solution. There's always gonna be a compromise. Is it acceptable to us or not? I would like to say here that I think the Commission has been very tight on this so far. I appreciate how she's been doing that so far. That's what I really want to say. It is under enormous pressure from other Member States to admit, and these are not the smallest Member States. Mr. Chairman. Then there are Mr Sjoerdsma's questions. I thought he also wanted to respond to all my yes and nos.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u226	I'll take a look.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u227	I've decided to settle for two out of three.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u228	Thank you. Mrs Kamminga also asked quite specifically about this point. The answer is also no. There's not going to be any slackening of attention here. We must continue to invest in strengthening the EU, especially from within. That is precisely what we need to be able to rely on in this crisis. The assessment of the Hungarian recovery plan has not yet been submitted to the Council. The timing is unknown, I say to Mrs. Piri. There are no texts yet and it is also unclear how the milestones have been formulated. And here too, we continue to press Hungary for concrete future-proof milestones on the rule of law. But I do not know what the timing is in the light of the Hungarian elections. But so far, there's no proposal. Mr Bishop actually said: not Hungary or Poland, but wider. With regard to the debate on European financing of defence and all kinds of other matters, I would just like to reiterate that the Netherlands is opposed to the sharing of debts in Europe. In the past we have found constructions that work well, the RRF et cetera, but they are not at issue either. Of course, we have an existing RRF and there's 750 billion in it. This money has largely not been used and therefore the question is not really raised. Moreover, there is no proposal at all for a Euro-defensive fund. That's not there. Also in the direction of Mr Bishop: yes, once. It is an important priority for the Cabinet in the SGP review, in terms of effective enforcement. We have said that we are willing to take a step in terms of... Oh, by the way, I can see that the Commission has announced that there is no agreement on this tweet from Poland. The Commission will follow this debate. That is good and it should be, but there is no agreement with Poland. I say that in the direction of Mr Van der Lee. But back to Mr Bishop: we said about the SGP that you could give countries those reforms a little more time in the phasing-out path to 60%. We have made this proposal, and that is what we are actually saying: where RRF money is linked to reforms, time is linked to reforms here. But, and that is Mr Bishop's point, there is enforcement. That's the point. When Juncker once said "France is too big to maintain under the SGP," the SGP was obviously severely damaged. And we shouldn't have that again.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u229	Let's check it out. How many...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u230	There were a lot of questions. I now come to the Strategic Compass and all the things associated with it. Also a nice pile.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u231	Okay. So there's still a pile.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u232	But after that, I only have two separate questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u233	Okay, very good. But I see that Mrs Piri already has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u234	Not about the Strategic Compass. I think I heard the Prime Minister say that he is not really in favour of a new fund. I asked a question about this, because that new fund is intended to compensate those countries that are hit hardest, especially if we add sanctions in that energy sector. Is it true you said you're not in favour of such a fund?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u235	No, we're not in favour of that. What you can do is look at each other and see what's possible within all the existing money flows. Of course, there is a huge seven-year budget. There is the very large corona repair fund and at least a very small part of it has been used for the loan part. But then I would be careful to compensate for other countries' energy bills from a European pot. I think the Dutch electorate would be critical of that. What you can do is see how you can speed up the "Fit for 55" goals. This allows you to reduce energy dependency and there are possibilities.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u236	I think there are three options. One is more flexible dealing with European budgetary standards. Well, I think that, if I understand correctly, is very soon an agreement to make it more flexible for a year. Then you will indeed have a more flexible way of dealing with the EU's recovery funds. We have just talked about the fact that we do not want to freeze Hungary and Poland. How do you deal with that? Besides, they're loans, aren't they? Loans are a way of solidarity other than collective acceptance. A third option is like the Brexit a separate fund. This is an external war, for which no European country is responsible. If you want to achieve joint sanctions, then you will also have to have something of solidarity to take those blows together.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u237	But the Netherlands is a major user of that fund, because we are really affected by these sanctions, because we are so intertwined with international trade flows. I do not know whether there is a great deal of support in Europe to help a rich country like the Netherlands. And that is, of course, a matter of very large sums of money. The Brexit Fund involved, I must say, about 600 million, but here you are talking about an impact of many billions on the economy. If you have to smooth that out in common, then of course it starts with the energy issues, the fact that the energy bill is high. There are all kinds of ideas in countries that say: you have to put a cap on the energy price. This has a major impact on the functioning of the energy market. There are really big risks to that. But if you had to finance that internally, you'd be talking about potentially I-don't-know-how many billions. We did that corona restoration fund in the context of the solidarity surrounding corona. We have our own problems now. I think that's a complicated one, to be honest. That's not what we're thinking right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u238	Your last interruption, Mrs. Piri.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u239	Then let us take the example of Italy. Italy, unlike the Netherlands, has very quickly handed in the plans for that corona recovery fund. So that money is actually much less flexible to move than is the case for the Dutch cabinet, which I think will hand over its plans to the Commission next Friday. Italy, for example, had a lot of difficulty with the SWIFT sanctions on those seven banks, which is extremely dependent on gas, especially from Russia. How does the Prime Minister think that we in Europe can maintain agreement and unity if we need to tighten up these sanctions without taking those blows together? I just don't get it. I understand that the Prime Minister has a problem with it and that it concerns large sums of money. But are we going to move forward at all after that fourth sanction package?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u240	I think so. In some countries, however, proposals have been made publicly, including in national parliaments, to set up a kind of new recovery fund. It is from Italy that those thoughts have come. I have always said that I am not enthusiastic about this, because once again we are talking about large sums of money that have to be transferred from, for example, the Netherlands to other countries, while we ourselves now have all kinds of problems to solve. So far, it has not caused any problems in the area of sanctions. Of course, we'll have to look at it at a time, but I haven't seen it happen so far. What you do see is the general concern about the greatly increased gas and electricity prices. There are many proposals for this: joint purchasing, capping, decoupling, electric gas... All these plans are at great risk. We also do not expect to achieve major breakthroughs in the next few days, but there will probably be a further orientation. Suppose you put an internal cap on the gas price where you say: you pay Putin or Norway what they ask, but you cap it and you subsidise it internally. You can try to do that from your national budget, with all the risks involved, but if that were to be European, you'd be talking about huge amounts of money. I don't see that happening. I also notice that there is a great deal of resistance to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u241	Do I understand correctly that the Prime Minister is now definitely walking away from the subject of Ukraine? Because I had asked a few more questions about that that I haven't seen answered yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u242	I guess that's when I let him down. He's gonna fix that now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u243	I'm gonna give it a try. In the first place, I raised those genocidal statements on Ukrainian television with the question to the Prime Minister whether he would like to ask Zelensky whether he has already saved that, or whether he is going to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u244	As far as I know, Ukraine is slightly different from Russia at the moment. There's a certain amount of media freedom there. I'm not quite sure if the Ukrainian president would be very happy if I said, "Would you like to lead a war in addition to the biggest European raid in another country since World War II, and call your national TV channel to make this right?" I'm not gonna do that. I don't think that's what he's waiting for. Once these statements have been made, they are, of course, reprehensible. I can't tell if that's true right now, but I'm not gonna talk to Zelensky about that, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u245	Calling to genocide is just a crime! That is simply a crime committed on national television. People were summoned to kill Russians without regard for the person. Even in this difficult situation between Ukraine and Russia, can you not allow that to happen?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u246	It would help me if Mr De Roon had a similar question for Putin, about the things that happen on Russian television. That would give me a little more comfort, but I haven't heard that question yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u247	I give Mr Rutte every opportunity to ask Putin that kind of question. I understand that he is on good terms with Zelensky, so there may be more to be achieved there than with Mr Putin.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u248	I can reach Putin, also through other channels. If what Mr De Roon says has been said, that is of course reprehensible. But I don't know if that's what happened. I can't estimate that. I do not know whether there is any government responsibility or involvement. If that was said by someone in a TV newsroom... If something strange is said here in a television programme in the Netherlands and I am called about it by a foreign colleague, I would even say in a non-war situation: boy, dude, I have other things to do; call that TV channel myself. Anyway, that's different if it's a government representative. I cannot estimate that, but as far as I know, there is a fairly free news gathering in Ukraine, at least for the Russian invasion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u249	Mr. De Roon, it is better that you use your second term for this, because you are through your interruptions. I must disappoint you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u250	But the Prime Minister said, "I'm gonna deal with that in the next block." Does that count for anything?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u251	But I brought that, didn't I?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u252	Yeah, but that's not the point. It's about counting the number of interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u253	Then I've counted one too many. Well, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u254	Thank you for your generosity. I think I'm just in my right, but let's leave that in the middle. My next point is the question of putting eleven parties in the Ukrainian Parliament on the ground. That is simply a violation of democracy. You wouldn't expect that from your ally, would you? Finally, I was talking about setting up an air bridge. Would the Prime Minister like to check with his colleagues, formally at the summit or informally at the same time, whether there is an interest in working together on this? Because of course you shouldn't wait until the moment when it's all over, when there's a truce and people are dying in the city of Marioepol or wherever. Then you just have to be ready to do something. I think an air bridge could be a good solution for certain situations, but you have to prepare them.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u255	Everything we can prepare is being prepared, but at the moment Russia's aggression in Marioepol and elsewhere is such that it does not seem to me to be a passable road. The maximum you can do is to promote the corridors et cetera. I don't know the message about those 11 parties. I should check it out. I just don't know, and that's why I don't want to respond to rumors like that right now. I really need to be sure. Mr. Chairman. Maybe I can go straight to the core of the Strategic Compass. We have a number of initiatives in Europe, such as the EU training missions in Iraq, Mali and elsewhere. The purpose of the intervention force is not to stop the Russians or other major international conflicts. The purpose of this is to see if we, as Europe, can be able to do a few things ourselves in special situations, especially outside the NATO framework, but not, of course, in conflict with NATO. Think, for example, of evacuations or minor crisis operations. I think the situation in Kabul would have been too big a problem to solve with a rapid European intervention force. We have had a major problem there with the evacuation of nationals and others who depended on our protection. We intend to be able to carry out such operations as the European Union with this rapid reaction force in 2025, but that is, of course, completely separate from the defence of the territory and the NATO task. It's not a European army. The Netherlands has also made no proposals for the creation of a European army. There are no such proposals. Of course, participation always takes place on the basis of national decision-making, both on the provision of military services and capacity. So it does not replace the collective defence offered by NATO. Maybe I can also answer a few other questions right away, otherwise we will hear the question I might just want to answer again. In the Strategic Compass it is foreseen that this intervention force will be there in 2025, with 5,000 people. The Netherlands wants to contribute to this, because we think that this is a sensible addition to what Europe is doing, as I just outlined. Again, of course it remains a Dutch competence to participate or not. It also builds on the current EU Battlegroups. It's actually an improved version of what already exists. This could be used in evacuation missions or crisis management near Europe. Once again, it is not an army, nor is it in conflict with NATO. The decision-making process, Mrs Van der Plas and others asked for a Dutch competence. We then look each year at which countries choose to participate or stand by. Germany said it wants to be lead nation by 2025. That will therefore have to be a different country every year. Finally, another question from Mrs Kamminga on this issue. It has to do with NATO and additional troops to the east flank. That's right. Many additional measures have already been taken, such as the activation of defence plans and the higher readiness. Several allies are now working on a multinational basis on additional Battlegroups on the east flank. We are working with the French to see what we can do in Romania. In addition to the Romanian initiative, a Patriotic Air Defence Unit is planned to go to Slovakia in April. The expectation is that these Battlegroups will eventually be brought under the NATO flag, depending on military advice. Then they morph into, as it were, a kind of Enhanced Forward Presence. In the Baltic countries, by the way, there is also the ambition to enhance enhanced Forward Presence in enhanced forward defence. These are, of course, all decisions that we will have to take later. That would also mean more permanent presence. This discussion is ongoing, but I see it moving towards decision-making in June. So it is also a structural adjustment of the NATO posture, that is, our presence, to the eastern flank in the longer term. Then perhaps in that same context a few more things. Mrs Van der Plas asks: are you not afraid that NATO and EU responsibilities will bite each other? No, I don't think so. It's an en-en approach. Article 5 of NATO stands for our collective defence, and within the European Union it is wise that you are able to do things that are not directly related to your defence, but are related to what I just outlined, such as logistics operations, but also evacuations, for example. Mr Sjoerdsma asked: is that Strategic Compass enough for the longer term? I think we're really taking a few big steps here. That's what's needed. There is a collective awareness that we need to invest in security. Moreover, I believe that further cooperation within the European Union is really helping to make smarter use of our capabilities. Of course, you can already see the Netherlands working with Germany in a highly integrated way when it comes to the army. You see that in a lot of places. We also work with the Belgians in air defense, of course. I believe that the current crisis underlines the urgency of this EU defence cooperation. Then Mr Van Dijk asked: shouldn't we act hastily? It's always wise not to do that, but I don't think we do that here. We could not make the draft public, because we were bound by EU rules. But we have now shared the public appreciations of the five drafts and their policy implications with the Chamber. We have also discussed our commitment with the Chamber in advance of the Council meetings. The Sjoerdsma motion on the increase in defence expenditure calls for an investigation into whether there can be structural additional investment in defence, also in view of the 2% agreement with NATO members. This is in addition to the 25% additional defence expenditure from the coalition agreement. We know that motion. It's accepted, too. The possibilities for additional investment are now being mapped out by the Secretary of Defense. The Chamber shall be informed as soon as possible. We will then inform the Chamber at the latest of any additional resources for defence, or if possible earlier, for example in the Defence Note. The question was also how to prevent the situation from changing the whole security system by 2024. There have been elections in the United States again, and you don't know how that goes. I think you should say here that the transatlantic alliance is essential for European security. That's what this crisis shows. NATO remains the cornerstone of our collective defence and security. Our transatlantic approach remains crucial, hence the relationship with the United States and Canada, which are of great importance. Honestly, no matter who's in the White House. It goes beyond the White House. Think, for example, of the great support for NATO and European security in Congress. The Republicans and Democrats are also aware that if Russia were to have a greater influence in this part of Europe, it would ultimately have a major impact on the security of the United States. We only have to go back 80 years in history or we go back to the end of World War I to understand how crucial it is for the security of the United States that Europe is stable. So apart from historical ties and historical obligations, there is also a very pragmatic reason for the United States to continue to invest heavily in NATO, provided that we do so. That is why defence expenditure must also be increased. That's what we're lucky to do. This will also make the relationship with the United States more equal, more effective and thus more future-proof. Otherwise, it would naturally come under pressure in the long term. Finally, there was the question of private investment. I understand that this is about measures to improve the access of the defence industry to private finance. Then it's about access to loans from banks. That seems to me to be a good thing. We need a strong defence industry in Europe that can also be technologically successful. Mr. Chairman. Those were all the questions about the Strategic Compass. I have three outstanding questions left.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u256	All right, I'll go to Mr Van Houwelingen first for an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u257	I don't think our questions have been answered yet, but I'll ask them now. The first question is: the Prime Minister repeats over and over again that there is no European army. We will soon have, in 2025, a European army of 5,000 men, paid and controlled by the European Union. Why isn't that a European army, according to the Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u258	Because that's not there for our protection and defense. This is there to achieve practical things: smaller crisis operations, evacuations, that sort of thing. For our defense, we have NATO.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u259	The problem we have has just been mentioned. So we have the pieces, the Strategic Compass, but we can't actually read that. They're confidential documents. That also makes it very difficult and frustrating for us, I must say. But what elements are missing in that 5,000 army unit? I assume that's armed. They're 5,000 soldiers. Let me put it this way: if the Prime Minister compares it with the Luxembourg army, isn't that an army of 1,100 men? Is this power, this part of the army, worth less in terms of operational deployment, less in terms of fighting power than the Luxembourg army? After all, that's what we call an army.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u260	When it comes to defending our alliance, we do it through NATO. You can also see that NATO is invoking agreements that have been made because of the great threat posed by Russia's attack in Ukraine and the importance of further strengthening the eastern flank. This also has an effect on Dutch soldiers who are therefore to a greater extent under direct NATO control. That's the deal we made with NATO. This is something else. This is a group of people, soldiers, who we bring together to ensure that we as Europe are not in the hair with our hands as we were in Kabul in August. I don't know if this would have been enough to protect that huge Kabul airport. I really can't see that. But the intention is that you can also do things in that type of operation as a European Union. It is not intended to defend European territory.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u261	It may not be intended for that purpose, but throughout the world is it called an army throughout human history? We're sitting here playing semantic games; that's our frustration. Everyone calls that an army, I think. But you say, since it's being deployed, it's not an army. Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u262	The Prime Minister says so. The chairman doesn't say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u263	If the NATO alliance is attacked and SACEUR says "I can use this group to protect extra" I don't know what you're doing. I can't see that. It is intended as an intervention force to ensure that you, as a Europe, are able to do so. But there is a great concern at the Chamber that we are going to a European army. There is no plan for this at all, not even in Europe, nor in Macron. I've talked to him about that a lot. We agree: it has to be and-and-and. We as Europe need to invest in our defence and work smarter together. We shouldn't all do things twice. We've integrated that with the Germans smartly now. In this way, we must make an effective contribution in NATO to the protection of the European Alliance and maintain a strong relationship with the United Kingdom, including within NATO, as well as with the United States and Canada. It is always and-and-and, and this intervention force has a very specific task, as I have just outlined. But Mr Van Houwelingen is a free man. If he says that it is then a European army, he can say that of course from me, but it is not.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u264	And he's got one more interruption he's gonna use.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u265	It's semantics, but let me make a final observation. Suppose this intervention force grows into a huge army, as we would call it, of perhaps a million men with everything, but the European Union is going to reassure us. There's a note that says it'll only be used occasionally for a security mission somewhere near an airport. Then it is not a European army according to the VVD, and then we can all sleep quietly. That's how I'm gonna sum this up.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u266	You're talking about a million people. The intention is that by 2025 this will grow to about 5,000 people so that you can do things, also in addition to what the European Union does with training missions. Yeah, it's a little... I don't know what else to say about it than this!
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u267	I think we will continue on this theme. You have another interruption from Mr Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u268	This is a little troubling, isn't it? Apart from the fact that it is becoming a semantic issue, it is said that this will become an intervention force that has nothing to do with the defence. But it's about 5,000 soldiers. I had another question that hasn't been answered. So what is the long-term plan for this European mini-army?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u269	The long-term plan is that Europe is able to stand on its own feet more often when it comes to this type of intervention, as I have just outlined. Well, I keep repeating what I just said. I don't suddenly have a new answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u270	That sounds a bit naive, because Mr Josep Borrel has said that he dreams of 50,000 people in that European mini-army, which is already getting quite a bit big. Perhaps the Prime Minister will be able to meet us by saying that as long as he is Prime Minister, there will be no European army in any way. And then he'll have to make that substantial, because Mr. Van Houwelingen, of course, had a point. If you scale it up to 50,000 or 100,000, you'll get close to an army, no matter how you use it. They're just males and females with tanks, bombs and grenades. I don't know how else to describe it than an army. So this Prime Minister stands for the fact that we will not have a European army. I just asked the VVD to do the same thing. I'd like that confirmed.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u271	In any case, Mr Van Haga has just promised to campaign for me, because he says: as long as you do it, so it stands. I know he's got another board of Rutte in his office, so it'll be part of the campaign. But without madness... I'm not gonna repeat the answer. The plan is that it grows to about 5,000 people. In Europe, you will always hear people who put it differently and have different ambitions. Josep Drelle may say all that, but the plans are as I just outlined them. I can't make that much more beautiful than this, and I don't think it's wise to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u272	Then I see Mr Sjoerdsma standing in for an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u273	Yes, in addition to the broken arms policy of the right and the right, I still have a question for the Prime Minister. There is, of course, an urgent question before us. The Prime Minister is right to say that we are leaning on the defence capacity that NATO has to offer us. That's right, but I'd like to go to 2024, if there's another American president. And then the Prime Minister can say that there is also a Congress and a House of Representatives, and it is, but we have also seen under Trump how thin that line could become. My question to the Prime Minister goes beyond this compass. What should the European Union then be able to do to ensure that we can keep our territory safe even if it is difficult to do so with the United States?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u274	My guess is you're not due 2%. Then you will have to set up a European atomic power as America now offers. Then the French won't deliver either. The force the frappe isn't that big either. So you are talking about massive investments in the European nuclear power. You're talking about defense spending twice as much. I think you really have to go to 4% or 5% for the Netherlands if you want to survive without the transatlantic umbrella. I don't think that's possible. I think you really need to be real and that the Western world really needs to stand hand in hand to defend itself. Someone recently said very nicely that 'the Western world' is not only a geographical indication but also a cultural understanding of democracy, freedom and human rights. That's why this transatlantic relationship is so sacred. I really do not see how, in the long term, we as a Europe can provide structural protection without that American bond in NATO. I think you are really talking about huge spending and also about a huge expansion of our nuclear capacity, which in fact only France now has.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u275	The last interruption for Mr Sjoerdsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u276	For the security of our territory, I do not like to rely on articles of faith and this is the only option. The Prime Minister is a liberal, and so am I. One of the few real tasks of a state is the security of its own citizens. So by definition, you can't automatically outsource that to a third party. That's not really how it should be. Alliances are then extremely important. Very much support for this, but I would ask the Prime Minister to come up with an idea for the longer term on how security should work at some point, here tonight or at another time. This is not just about money, but also about how we work together at European level and what we do about European cooperation, integration and specialisation. I think it is very urgent to think about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u277	I'm not for that. The risk of sending documents about this very openly is that we give the impression that we are working towards it. I really don't want to. I think that we can really only carry out our precise safety task if we are equivalent to the United States. We are not now because of our low defence expenditure, but by increasing it now, we have a position of equivalence and reciprocity. That only makes the alliance stronger, but we must also be real: if Western Europe, or the European Union, including the eastern Member States, should defend itself, without the transatlantic link, in a world of great nuclear capabilities, then I am afraid that is really about huge spending. I also think that we should not want that social and political. Mr President, three more questions. Mrs Van der Graaf asked a question about trafficking in human beings. We are committed to a European approach. In the Ukraine context, too, we must continue to work together for this. This will also be emphasised by Eric van der Burg, the Secretary of State on this issue at the JHA Council on Monday. Frontex, Europol and national authorities shall cooperate in this context, inter alia through the exchange of information. I thought her input on that point was special. It touched me. I will ask the officials to give Van der Burg that part of the input, so that he can prepare himself extra well for Monday's discussion in the JHA Council. The second question concerns the EU approach to corona. Health care is a national matter, but that virus has the annoying habit of not stopping at the border. That is why we must also coordinate in Europe, as we have done in recent years. Then the DCC, the digital corona certificate. Most of the Member States require a DCC on entry and use the technology also for national corona access tickets. For this reason, the Cabinet considers extension to be proportionate. Otherwise, you will get a proliferation of national entry rules and systems. However, we believe that the DCC should not be used unnecessarily for travel within the Union if the epidemiological situation no longer requires it. We are therefore in favour of a mid-term review of the need for the regulation, but that proposal was not a majority in the Council. There was a parliamentary reservation and that is why we abstained. The one about the DCC. It's all not ideal, but it's the best we can get. If you don't make agreements about it now, you'll get a proliferation of national systems and your tourists and business travellers are in the way. That would be my pragmatic view.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u278	Thank you. Then we arrive at the second term of the Chamber. First of all, I give the floor to Mr Sjoerdsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u279	Thank you, Mr President, and thank you, of course, to the Prime Minister for his reply. Two motions from my side. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the Netherlands, together with allies, has adopted unparalleled sanction packages towards Russia;]] [[whereas there is only a reporting obligation for financial institutions and trust offices;]] [[noting that the coordination and sanctioning legislation of the Dutch Government is not sufficient at present;]] [[Calls on the Government to review the sanctions legislation in the short term, at least to examine a broadening of the reporting obligation for companies and entities of sanctioned persons not covered by financial institutions and trust offices in order to be able to monitor these frozen assets;]] [[calls on the Government to improve the coordination of sanctions policies in the short term and to join the Transatlantic Task Force;]] [[calls on the Government to report on this within two months,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Sjoerdsma, Mr Amhaouch, Mr Piri, Mr Van der Lee, Mr Koekkoek, Mr Jasper van Dijk, Mr Teunissen, Mr Kamminga, Mr Kuzu and Mr Ceder.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1763]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u280	The Prime Minister estimates that the motion is not going to make it, but my feeling is that there is a reasonable chance that it will succeed. Mr. Chairman. Second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Notes that more than 3.5 million people have fled Ukraine since the outbreak of the war in Ukraine;]] [[Whereas the debate on common European asylum policy has been at an impasse for many years, resulting in a lack of effective policies affecting both Member States and refugees;]] [[believes that the current war situation in Europe underlines the need for common asylum policy more than ever;]] [[calls on the government to make every effort to force a breakthrough in the common European asylum policy before the summer, ensuring a good balance between responsibility and solidarity between Member States,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Sjoerdsma, Mr Podt and Mr Ceder.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1764]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u281	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u282	Thank you, Mr Jasper van Dijk of the SP has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u283	Mr. Chairman. I have three motions. The first motion concerns sanctions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that in the Netherlands it is possible in many ways to conceal money flows and ownership structures and that as a result the Netherlands is in the eighth place of the financial confidentiality index;]] [[Considers that it is undesirable to conceal assets and ownership structures, especially in the light of the war in Ukraine and the sanctions against Russian oligarchs;]] [[calls on the Government to remove as much and as quickly as possible the possibilities of concealing assets and ownership structures,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Jasper van Dijk and Mr Alkaya.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1765]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u284	The second motion concerns the reception of refugees. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering the huge demand for shelters for refugees from Ukraine;]] [[calls on the government to look seriously at reception facilities in the state real estate, including the ministries as well as the building of the Lower House,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Jasper van Dijk and Mr Van der Plas.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1766]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u285	Finally, a motion on investment in defence. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the European Council wishes to facilitate access to private finance for the defence industry, including through the European Investment Bank;]] [[Considering that the defence industry is particularly affected;]] [[calls on the Government not to accept this part of the conclusions of the European Council of 24-25 March,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Jasper van Dijk.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1767]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u286	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u287	Thank you, Mrs Kamminga of the VVD will have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u288	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you also to the Prime Minister for replying. The VVD welcomes the confirmation that arms supplies to Ukraine will continue if necessary. We also welcome the commitment on Serbia and the story the Prime Minister told us about the fact that the attitude and effects of non-compliance with sanctions are being taken into account. I would also like to mention the oil boycott specifically here. I understand very well that I have also appointed in my first term that we must do what can be done. However, in order to strengthen this, Mrs Piri will be tabling a motion which I shall support. That motion is about an oil boycott and that we should at least look very closely at an ambitious phasing-out path if that were not possible. We also welcome the response on the financing of RePowerEU. We are pleased that it is indeed going to be the commitment to get this financed from the MFF or perhaps to look at the RRF. So we're happy about that. Mr Sjoerdsma has already tabled a motion that we have supported. I will also be submitting one of Mrs Van der Graaf's later. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u289	Thank you, then I give the floor to Mr Amhaouch of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u290	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Prime Minister for answering all the questions and also for the debate we have had. For the CDA, it is important that we do everything we can to hit Putin's war chest. There are no taboos, but we do need to tackle it at European level so that we are collectively strong and effective. Mr. Chairman. For the CDA, it is also important that today it has also emerged that we are sending a clear political signal, both to the people of Ukraine and to Putin, that we are now standing alongside the Ukrainians, but also on day one when the war is over. We would like to propose a marshall plan, as the Germans have said. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the illegal Russian war against Ukraine causes unimaginable human suffering and material damage;]] [[whereas the United Nations expects the war to reverse socio-economic development in Ukraine for almost two decades;]] [[considers that the European Union should show solidarity with Ukraine not only during but also after the conflict;]] [[Calls on the Government in the European Union to seek proactive support for the establishment of a European recovery programme aimed at restoring and rebuilding Ukraine;]] [[calls on the Government to take an active lead in the implementation and implementation of this programme,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Amhaouch, Mr Sjoerdsma, Mr Van der Lee, Mr Piri and Mr Van der Graaf.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1768]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u291	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I too welcome the detailed answer, but there are still a few points we need to highlight. I am under the motion that Mr Piri, esteemed member of our progressive alliance, is going to table on the oil boycott. That motion is also supported more widely. But in order to make the point of the need perhaps to apply different speeds to this, I wanted to table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that civilian casualties continue to occur every day in Ukraine as a result of deliberate attacks by the Russian army;]] [[Whereas the further reduction of money flows to Russia can force Putin to cease firing more quickly;]] [[calls on the Government, if there is no rapid agreement on a boycott of Russian oil imports by the European Union, to work at different speeds, so that, for example, a leading group of European Member States wishing to opt for a boycott in the very short term can also be formed,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Lee and Mr Piri.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1769]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u292	The second motion concerns the families of oligarchs. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas Russian oligarchs channel large-scale money or possessions to family members in order to avoid sanctions imposed;]] [[Whereas, inter alia, the United Kingdom and the United States have already added family members of oligarchs to the list of sanctions against individuals;]] [[calls on the Government to propose to the European Commission that the current list of sanctioned Russian persons also include their immediate family members,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Lee and Mr Piri.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1770]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u293	Finally, one sentence on the rule of law and possible payments from the Recovery Fund. Where no veto is possible, I can assume that if something does not fit the Dutch commitment, the Netherlands will actually vote against it. I would like to be clear about that. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u294	Then I'll go to Mr. De Roon of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u295	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Prime Minister doesn't want to think about an air bridge for people in Ukraine yet. I think that will only be possible if both warring parties agree. That is not yet the case and we do not know when it will happen. But when it happens, it shouldn't be like we're staring at each other like, "How are we gonna fix that?'. That can all be well prepared in advance and hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to consider the possibilities for citizens in besieged places or areas in Ukraine to establish an air bridge to supply them with food, water and medicine,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member De Roon.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1771]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u296	The second motion concerns the Strategic Compass and the European army. The semantic discussion, whether it is an army or not, reminds me very much of the discussion we had with Mr Balkenende on whether or not the European Treaty was a European constitution. I don't like these things. I think it can simply be regarded as a European army and therefore this motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government not to agree to the EU Strategic Compass,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member De Roon.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1772]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u297	When it comes to energy security and compensation for price increases, I think that the Prime Minister is suddenly less prime minister of all the Dutch and much more thinking about what is going on internationally. That's why I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to put security of supply of energy in place and to refrain from anything that can reduce security of supply,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member De Roon.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1773]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u298	And the final motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to compensate for energy price increases,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members De Roon and Wilders.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1774]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u299	Finally, Mr President, the points on which the Prime Minister cannot respond, starting with Ukraine's genocidal call on television. I think it's very dangerous if it gets traction. We can ask Ukraine as an associated member of the European Union's community of values to prevent it from going through like an ink stain. I think the Prime Minister should do that. This other issue concerns the eleven parties which have been put to the fore in the Rada, the People's Assembly. I haven't been able to read anything about why that was done. The Prime Minister could, through his contacts, ask why that happened and express his concerns about the fact that so many voters have been sidelined in this way. I hope the Prime Minister will report all this in writing to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u300	Thank you, Mrs Piri of the PvdA has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u301	Thank you, Mr President, and thank you to the Prime Minister for answering all the questions. I'd like to take a moment to consider the enormous loss of Madeleine Albright's death. She was a very great example for many and certainly for many female politicians who are foreign spokesmen. Mr. Chairman. I was somewhat surprised that we have spent at least an hour of this debate on a fictional European army, when I think there has never been a European summit and NATO summit as important as that of the next few days. I have two motions. A motion is about the oil boycott; a number of colleagues have already referred to it. The inconvenience towards the Prime Minister lies not so much in Russia selling oil, but in the fact that we are the ones buying the oil for a quarter of a billion euros a day. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that European countries purchase oil from Russia for €250 million per day;]] [[Whereas these revenues enable Russia to contribute to financing the war in Ukraine;]] [[noting that the United States and Canada have therefore already announced an oil boycott, but are the largest customers in Europe and Asia;]] [[Whereas it is undesirable for oil prices to continue to rise and Russia to earn more money through other customers;]] [[calls on the government to work at European level to ensure that Russian oil revenues are squeezed as effectively as possible, such as an oil boycott or a debt reduction if this is not possible, with Russian oil imports being phased out in cooperation with similar countries in the rest of the world,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Piri, Mr Kamminga, Mr Amhaouch, Mr Van der Lee, Mr Jasper van Dijk, Mr Koekkoek, Mr Bishop, Mr Sjoerdsma and Mr Van der Graaf.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1775]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u302	Then there's the second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that it has been agreed at EU level that displaced persons from Ukraine shall be granted temporary protection;]] [[noting that, on the basis of this agreement, several Member States provide for protection by granting a temporary residence permit;]] [[calls on the Government to provide displaced persons from Ukraine with a temporary residence permit in the Netherlands;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Piri, Mr Van der Lee, Mr Jasper van Dijk, Mr Sylvana Simons, Mr Koekkoek and Mr Van der Plas.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1776]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u303	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u304	Then I'll go to Mrs. Koekkoek of Volt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u305	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you also to the Prime Minister for all the answers. I agree with Mr Piri's fine words. I think this was very well said. Thank you also to the Prime Minister for the commitment to return to which banks are going to handle the payment of Russian grain. In addition, we have another question. Can the Prime Minister come back to that point before the next Foreign Affairs Council? I think there was one more question that the Prime Minister had not yet come back to or which I myself missed; I would like to leave that in the middle. The question is: how will we, as Europe, become strategically autonomous as soon as possible in the area of critical raw materials? I had indicated in my speech that the EU is mainly looking at Eastern European countries. For example, Ukraine has a lot of lithium. Because we as a Europe are strategically autonomous... Oh, the Prime Minister says he's already answered this question. I believe you. I read it back in the Acts. Excuse me. Okay, then I'll move on to the motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that local authorities play a central role in the reception and implementation of the temporary protection mechanism;]] [[whereas local authorities can only fulfil their role if they receive sufficient funding;]] [[Considering that the EU is considering paying additional funds from, inter alia, the MFF, as well as the recovery funds to the European Member States for support;]] [[Notes that in countries such as Poland and Hungary, the funds intended for the reception and integration of Ukrainian refugees do not always belong to local authorities and authorities;]] [[calls on the Government, within the Council, to promote independent monitoring of the implementation and distribution of European funds, for example by the European Court of Auditors, in order to ensure that the funds are properly spent,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Koekkoek, Mr Van der Lee and Mr Omtzigt.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1777]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u306	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u307	Thank you, Mr Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u308	Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the armed forces are suffering from enormous staff shortages;]] [[calls on the government not to lend Dutch soldiers to the EU unit of 5,000 men,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to maintain the ceilings of the European Peace Facility and not to contribute more than has been agreed,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government not to agree to the Strategic Compass,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government not to take any corona travel measures at EU level,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga and Mr Eppink.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1778]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga, Mr Eppink and Mr Van der Plas.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1779]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Haga and Smolders.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1780]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Haga and Smolders.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1781]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u309	And then the last one. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to inform the Chamber at least biennially of the progress of the announced pandemic treaty in order to be able to adjust in the meantime,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Haga and Smolders.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1782]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u310	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u311	Thank you, Mrs van der Plas, if she so wishes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u312	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas President France of the European Council has announced its intention to reconsider parts of the Van-Boer-to-Bord strategy;]] [[calls on the Cabinet to pause the implementation of the Van-Boer-to-Bord strategy at national level so that the production capacity of our agricultural sector is not compromised;]] [[calls on the Cabinet to ensure that food independence and food security are also guiding the implementation of the Van-Boer-to-Bord strategy,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that Turkish President Erdogan is a mediator in the war between Russia and Ukraine;]] [[noting that EU leaders are engaged in talks with President Erdogan;]] [[calls on the cabinet to stress at the EU summit that Erdogan is not promised or promised anything as a reward and that his possible mediation is completely separate from all other talks and relations with Turkey,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Plas, Mr Eppink and Mr Van Haga.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1783]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Plas, Mr Van Haga and Mr Eppink.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1784]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u313	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u314	Thank you, and I will give the floor to Mrs Van der Graaf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u315	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you to the Prime Minister for the answers he has given. I am pleased that food security is an issue which he expects to return to the European Council. I have the next motion on this. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the war in Ukraine has a global impact on food security, mainly in Africa and the Middle East;]] [[whereas UN institutions such as FAO and IFAD can play a good role in food supply, but there are shortcomings in its financing due to rising food prices;]] [[calls on the Government to address this issue at the European Council and to call on the EU Member States and the EU to contribute to its financing,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Van der Graaf, Mr Piri, Mr Amhaouch, Mr Van der Plas, Mr Bishop, Mr Van der Lee and Mr Jasper van Dijk.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1785]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u316	Mr. Chairman. Then I have a second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas UNICEF and UNHCR, among others, have expressed their strong concern about the trafficking of Ukrainian refugees, especially children and women;]] [[calls on the Government at European level to press for a coordinated approach aimed at preventing and combating trafficking in human beings and at protecting refugees,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Van der Graaf, Mr Ceder, Mr Bikker, Mr Piri and Mr Amhaouch.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1786]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u317	Mr. Chairman. I welcome the last motion and the reaction of the Prime Minister that this will also be included in the JHA Council. It is incredibly tragic that human traffickers are at the border with the aim of taking women and children and putting them into prostitution. We also receive online signals from aid organisations that demand is very specific to these women. It's incomprehensible. It is incredibly important that this is addressed and it also calls for the attention of the Dutch cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u318	Thank you. Then I will go to Mr Eppink of JA21.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u319	Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank the Prime Minister and wish him every success at the Brussels Summit. As you know, it is our view that the government has greater discretion in these situations. So we're not going to make this cabinet difficult right away on all fronts. Still, I have one small point. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that a majority of the Chamber voted against the arrival of a European army;]] [[noting that 5,000 European soldiers will join the Rapid Deployment Capacity;]] [[calls on the government to state at the European Summit on 24 and 25 March that the Rapid Deployment Capacity should not be a tribute to a European army,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Eppink, Mr Van Haga, Mr Van der Plas and Mr Bishop.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1787]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u320	Thank you, Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u321	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Prime Minister for the answers. It's gonna be a hell of a summit with this kind of thing. I agree with Mr Eppink that it is important to move forward together, to make the right decisions, to bring this war to an end in some way and to ensure that the slaughter ends there. I'm also just disappointed in colleagues who don't understand how this war started. I thought that at least we agreed that one country would not attack another, which is also what you think of the country's internal policy. Penalties may be imposed. You can even hold money from countries, but you can't do this. Mr. Chairman. I also hope that work will be speeded up on reducing gas and oil dependence and that it will be possible to do so within weeks. That is very ambitious, but if this war continues, I can see that the whole supply of energy can disappear at some point. Then you better be prepared than let yourself be robbed. Mr. Chairman. Finally, one motion for a resolution. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that since the imposition of sanctions, the Netherlands has frozen much fewer assets of people on the penalty list than some other EU countries;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that all available tax information, including APA and ATR, are available within 48 hours for all authorities in the Netherlands monitoring compliance with sanctions,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Omtzigt, Mr Koekkoek, Mr Piri, Mr Van der Lee, Mr Van der Plas, Mr Eppink, Mr Jasper van Dijk, Mr Kuzu and Mr Bishop.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1788]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u322	Mr President, I must get used to the fact that I can simply give the motion to you. This motion is important. All tax data of anyone can be shared, even if they are illegal blacklists. It does not seem to me that because of the privacy of Russia's oligarchs, we would not be able to freeze their assets. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u323	Thank you. Finally, Mr Van Houwelingen of FVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u324	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We found the answer from the cabinet somewhat unsatisfactory. I'll put it nicely. Almost none of our questions have been answered. We've also wasted a lot of time playing semantic games. I think it's everywhere and worldwide that an army is an army. This is independent of the way in which it is intended to be used. If, for example, the American Government were to say that we are only using our army for humanitarian missions and airport security, no one will say that America no longer has an army. In my view, that is the logic of the cabinet when it comes to a European army. Well, then, of course, there is never a European army. Finally, we also found it shocking that the information provided to the cabinet is apparently very limited. Mr De Roon quite rightly pointed out that eleven political parties were prohibited. That's big news. I have the play from The Guardian in front of me. The headline is "Ukraine suspends 11 political parties with links to Russia." That has been great news, but apparently the government has missed it. Mr. Chairman. I shall confine myself to two motions. I actually had three, but one has actually already been tabled by Mr De Roon. The two motions are as follows. So I have two motions. The first is as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas only the Netherlands itself should be concerned with the deployment of Dutch military personnel;]] [[Whereas the European defence capacity to be formed could undermine this in the future;]] [[points out that only the Dutch Government and the Dutch Parliament have the power to decide on Dutch military engagement in a European context,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Houwelingen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1789]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u325	The final motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Government intends to sign the World Health Organisation International Pandemic Convention in the near future;]] [[Whereas signing this Convention may have legally binding consequences for the Netherlands;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that the international pandemic treaty can never lead to the imposition of a vaccination obligation on the Netherlands from the World Health Organisation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Houwelingen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1790]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u326	Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the second term of government. I give the floor to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u327	Mr. Chairman. I have another question from Mr Van der Lee on the supply of oil: can you also cancel it unilaterally? The answer is yes, you can. However, EU Member States must maintain strategic oil stocks. This has to do with EU legislation. A Member State may also unilaterally announce a boycott of imports of Russian oil, but that will of course have little effect, because that oil will simply be moved elsewhere. It is really more powerful to do that with a very large group of countries, for example the EU, NATO and so on, but it could be. Then there's the motions. The motion in part No. 1763 is judged by the Court of Justice with the nuance that sanctions legislation is sufficient, but we are going to improve implementation where necessary. The motion in part No. 1764 gets judgment Chamber. The motion in part No. 1765 I must dissuade. It is not clear what should be abolished. The cabinet does a lot against tax evasion and for transparency. So we want the motion in part No. 1765 dissuade. The motion in part No. 1766 as well, but the National Real Estate Company is looking at reception possibilities. I am talking about the Van Dijk motion on part No. 1766, which asks the government to look at the possibilities for the state real estate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u328	Yeah, it's crazy numbered: it says 1767 but it must be 1766. Oh, it's printed in reverse. That's him. I think the Prime Minister had the right numbering. It's about the state real estate. It's being dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u329	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u330	Let's go to 1767.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u331	The motion in part No. 1767, which calls on the government not to accept private financing for the defence industry, is not recommended. More investment in defence is needed. That is also in the European interest. The motion in part No. 1768 gets judgment Chamber. The motion in part No. 1769 is not recommended. We really need to do this together with the European Union. The motion in part No. 1770 gets judgment Chamber. Family members are already partly framed. The motion in part No. 1771 is not recommended with reference to the debate. The motion in part No. 1772 is not recommended, because we have already agreed to that Strategic Compass. The motion in part No. I should like to advise against referring to the debate. The same applies to the motion in part No. 1774. The motion in part No. 1775 gets judgment Chamber. The motion in part No. 1776 I would ask you to hold. The letter from the Secretary of State for Justice and Security really comes in the short term, so my request to Mrs Piri c.s. is to the motion in part no. 1776.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u332	I'll hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u333	At the request of Mrs Piri, I propose her motion (21501-20, No. 1776). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u334	Thank you very much. The motion in part No. 1777 gets judgment Chamber. The motion in part No. I should like to advise against referring to about an hour from the debate. The motion in part No. 1779 gets judgment Chamber. Of course, new agreements can always be made, but she is judged Chamber. The motion in part No. 1780 I'd like to dissuade. The motion in part No. I should like to advise against referring to the debate. The motion in part No. 1782 gets judgment Chamber. This has also been promised by the Minister of Health, Welfare and Sport. The motion in part No. 1783 I'd like to dissuade. I believe that this strategy needs to be implemented, precisely for long-term security of supply. The motion in part No. 1784 I'd like to dissuade. It is important that Turkey plays this role. The motion in part No. 1785 gets judgment Chamber. The motion in part No. 1786 gets judgment Chamber. The motion in part No. 1787 I'm actually trying to dissuade. Strictly speaking, it is not really an oppaign to a European army. So I could say "judge chamber," but that's so lame that I'm just gonna dissuade her. I would like to say this in all honesty and friendliness to Mr Eppink. So the motion in part No. 1787 I'd like to dissuade. It is not a prelude to a European army, but it is so obvious that I do not. The motion in part No. 1788 I would ask you to hold. We must first examine whether the legal bases make this possible. The Secretary of State for Finance needs to look at that now. So I would ask Mr Omtzig to move the motion on item No. 1788. Otherwise, I'm gonna have to dissuade her just in case. I really don't know if it's legal. I hope so, because I think he really has a point, but I don't know if he can. The Van Houwelingen motion in part No. 1789 is a speech-exmotion, so I don't have to respond to that. I would like to ask Mr Van Houwelingen for his motion in part No. 1790 also to hold. The Chamber is still informed about this by VWS. If not, I'll have to discourage the motion. My request is therefore for the motion in part No. 1788 and the motion in part No. 1790. Otherwise, I'm gonna have to dissuade them both.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u335	Let me look at the gentlemen who have tabled the two motions. Mr Omtzig wishes his motion in part No. 1788 to hold? That is not the case. Mr Van Houwelingen is also simply tabling his motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u336	Okay. Then I advise them both in a formal sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u337	The two motions have been dissuaded. Finally, I would like to give the floor to Mrs Van der Plas.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u338	I would like to clarify the motion on item No. 1784. The Prime Minister says: I am going to dissuade him, because it is important that Mr Erdogan should play this role. But the motion doesn't say that he shouldn't play that role. The motion calls on the cabinet to stress at the EU summit that nothing is promised or promised to him as a reward for his possible mediation and that this is completely separate from all other talks and relations with Turkey. But the Prime Minister does not give a substantive opinion on this. His mediation is not in question for me, but I do not want him to be promised things in return. That's what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u339	I can understand that, but I'm seriously dissuading the motion. I find this whole suggestion so offensive, even to Erdogan. I refer to the debate. I'm really dissuading the motion. I really don't think this is possible in diplomacy. We shouldn't do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u340	You exchanged your points in the debate on this subject. We're not gonna do that again.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u341	We're not doing it. No promises have been made to Erdogan, and we're not going to. But it's really insulting for a friendly head of state if we make that explicit again.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u342	Good. I am still looking at Mr Amhaouch.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u343	I have the judgment on the motion in part No. 1782 missed.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u344	Let's see. Judgment Room. That was also promised by the US Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u345	I thank the Prime Minister and the members.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u346	We are going to vote on all these motions tomorrow at the start of the afternoon meeting. For now, have a good night.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-8.u347	Thank you very much, Mr President.
