ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-17.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister for Legal Protection, the Members of Parliament, the people in the public gallery and the viewers at home. The next item is the two-minute debate on the Westerveld/Ceder motion on agreements with creditors to prevent claims for financial compensation. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mrs Westerveld van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-17.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Once again, we are here to talk about people who have been wronged, injustice that has only been recognised after a long battle and only after a thick report. Then a large part of these people feel abandoned again. It concerns victims of violence in youth care, often children who have been placed out of their homes at an early age, went to boarding school, have experienced abuse or abuse, and suffer the consequences for the rest of their lives. I am standing here because the minister's predecessor did not want to carry out our adopted motion. In this motion, we ask that victims of violence in the youth care sector should not have to pay their poor compensation of €5,000 for debts that have often been caused by what they have experienced in their youth. I have a few questions and I would like a precise answer to them. I'd like to ask this Minister if he's willing to carry out the motion. Does he agree with us that there is indeed a link between what these victims have experienced in their youth and their future lives? Does this Minister also agree with us that, in the case of the supplementing affair, creative solutions came under pressure and that this should be possible here too? And if the WODC report shows that it can be regulated by law and regulation, will the Minister promise that he will take care of these victims with retroactive effect? And is the Minister willing to talk to the victims himself? Because their stories grab at me, and I can imagine that the Minister does. Mr President, I also have a motion for a resolution. It is about the level of the grant of €5,000. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the government grants €5,000 to victims of abuse in the youth care sector following the report of the De Winter Committee;]] [[noting that this amount is more often provided as compensation, including, for example, victims of abuse in gymnastics;]] [[noting that in many cases this allowance is totally insufficient to pay, for example, permanent additional costs of care due to the suffering;]] [[calls on the government to carry out an independent investigation into whether the grant of €5,000 is proportionate in situations where the government bears (co-) responsibility for the suffering incurred,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Westerveld and Mr Van Nispen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31839-815]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-17.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, it's terrible what happened to the victims. And the concession from the Chamber should be a gesture. But we see problems in that and that means that we have tabled this motion. We're shocked by the government's reaction. Mr. Chairman. When I read the answers of the minister's predecessor, I see the intention not to leave people in debt-racking at a closed door when they come to the judge's commissioner with a request. However, this door will only open if the Recofa policy room gives the judge commissioner to leave the allowance of €5,000 out of the estate and out of consideration. Mr. Chairman. On the one hand, I read in the reply that the cabinet says that someone who has benefited and is in debt can turn to the director or the judge-supervisor. On the other hand, the same cabinet says that there is no need to make agreements with the Recofa. That can't be right, because the judge commissioner has to abide by certain rules when money falls or doesn't fall into the estate. My fear is that we will send these people and also the cabinet to directors with a closed door. We shouldn't want that, and when I read the letter, the Minister doesn't want that either. However, the explanation is not a solution. Mr. Chairman. That makes us want clarity, because did the Minister give the Recofa this space? And if not, why else does the Minister describe the space in his letter, namely that people who are in debt can actually go to an administrator or to a debt relief provider and that there could possibly be tailor-made solutions? And what is he going to do to give the Recofa this policy space? Mr. Chairman. As far as I am concerned, it is also the thrust of the motion which should be the subject of the two-minute debate. I would ask the Minister to interpret the motion in such a way that where people find themselves in a situation where there is evidence of trouble, they run into a dense wall when they are in debt restructuring, we ensure that the concession can really fall outside of the estate. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-17.u4	Thank you, Mr. Ceder. Then I shall suspend the sitting for ten minutes, until 2.30 p.m., so that the Minister can answer a number of questions and respond to the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-17.u5	I give the floor to the Minister for Legal Protection to answer a number of questions and to give his appreciation of a motion. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-17.u6	Mr. Chairman. We are talking today about an issue which I too am concerned about: the victims of violence in the youth care sector and the compensation of €5000 they have received from the government for this, a recognition. The key question today is whether this concession cannot be kept out of the reach of creditors. Your Chamber has, in the case of Mrs. Ceder's motion... No, your Chamber asked for that in Mr Ceder's motion and Mrs Westerveld's apology. I can inform you that the motion has put the cabinet in a dilemma. For although it seems only reasonable to follow up on the motion, fundamental objections stand in the way of this. I have the objections outlined in the letter which my predecessor sent to your Chamber on behalf of the Secretary of State for the United States of America and SZW. Even today, two spokesmen have asked questions that reflect on these objections. Following on from my speech, I will pass through it, and I will also address as much as possible the questions that have been put to me. Finally, I will try to use my creativity to show how I want to deal with it in the future. None of you have made the relationship today to the context of the supplementing affair. However, I would like to briefly point out them. In the supplementing affair, the government is taking far-reaching steps to offer victims a new future and to settle their debts as much as possible. The victims of the child care allowance affair did not have access to debt relief because of the actions of the government, the Tax Office, because they were classified as fraud. Tax and surcharge debts were also accumulated. The fraudsters stamp worked through in all kinds of fields, including their work. Think, for example, of withdrawing the statement on behaviour or refusing access to, inter alia, municipal aid. The government contributed in such a way that debts could not be resolved and that debts continued to rise. Although violence in youth care has left deep traces in the lives of the victims, possible problematic debts in the present are not directly related to the actions of the government at the time. I would like to remind you that we are also talking about victims of violence in youth care from 1945, for example. Am I willing, was one of the questions asked by Mrs Westerveld, to meet them and talk to them? I am certainly prepared to talk to them, but no longer on this subject, because the recognition has been given to my colleague on behalf of the cabinet. That's the way it's supposed to be. That's what happened. Back to the victims. The victims, who sometimes have problematic debts, have access to debt relief, unlike those affected by the childcare allowance affair. They also have other forms of help to solve their problems. In addition, the aim of the De Winter Committee's compensation has never been to solve debt problems, but is aimed at recognition of suffering. Madam President. I would also like to address one of my core functions: equality of law. As Minister of Justice, you can expect me to stand for equality. In my opinion, implementation of the motion is at odds with that principle. I'll explain. The Damage Fund Violent Crimes also provides compensation for other victims. Think of victims of serious violence and sexual crimes or survivors of life crimes. They also receive compensation through the Damage Fund Violent Crimes. The facts, 2020. In 2020, the Damage Fund took into account applications for some 4,000 victims of abuse, 1,500 victims of life crimes and some 900 survivors of life crimes. If I were to carry out the motion, that would mean that these victims would be penalised, because they would not be deprived of any debt. In addition to the reasons already mentioned in the letter, I consider the principle of equality of law to be so important that implementation of the motion is not appropriate. I'm rounding up. For the reasons of the legal protection of creditors, a subsequent argument........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Who do we talk about when we talk about creditors? Then we can talk about governments, health insurance companies, criminal removal regulations, etc., etc., but also about companies in which debts are outstanding. I am talking not only about large companies, but also about small and medium-sized enterprises orzzp'ers and other citizens. If Mrs Westerveld's proposal were to be followed, their rights would be violated because they would not be allowed to draw on the concession granted for the payment of their debt. As described in the letter and in reply to this question, this is an unavoidable path. Both international law and national case law prevent this infringement of rightholders. Can I, Madam President, address the motion and the questions I have been asked?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-17.u7	I'd love to. Then I will give Mrs Westerveld the floor to respond.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-17.u8	Agreed. Thank you. Mrs Westerveld has asked me five questions. I have already replied to some of them, namely the motion as such. I have dealt with the link between violence and debt. I've indicated why I don't see that connection. You're asking me for a creative solution. As has just been mentioned by the GroenLinks spokesperson, I asked the WODC to investigate what would have to be adapted in legislation and regulations in order to exclude benefits, such as those from the De Winter Committee, from creditors and whether, in the light of international treaties, that would be possible. I'm attached to that investigation. If I have the investigation, I will share it with your Chamber immediately, including a policy response. In it you will find my creativity, but based on fact.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-17.u9	Can you tell me when that investigation might be available?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-17.u10	At the moment, we are working hard on this. I really hope that I will have the investigation available in the middle of the second quarter.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-17.u11	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-17.u12	First of all, thank the Minister for his empathic words towards the victims, because that is the least they deserve. He was also very clear in his answers. But of course I am less satisfied with that, because we differ on that. The Minister's reply, as well as the letter we received earlier, clearly denies that there is a relationship between the situation of victims of violence and their past. Our position is and remains that that relationship cannot be denied. If you're placed out of your home at a young age, you're put under government supervision and all kinds of atrocities have happened to you, then it's not surprising that you're going to haunt your life forever. I would therefore like to ask the Minister whether he is prepared to come up with clear arguments. In our written consultation we also asked for dates to support this, but they did not come. I would like to ask him what he bases the argument that there is no relationship between the past of victims and the situation they are currently in, in which they often have debts.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-17.u13	I'm gonna take a look at the minister. I realize that this is a two-minute debate and not an ordinary debate, but given the subject, I do value an exchange. I leave it to the Minister whether he wishes to comment on this in writing or whether he can already say something about this to Mrs Westerveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-17.u14	I understand the question. I just indicated that we have done research and that we have asked the Victim's Aid Fund what we are actually talking about. Who are they and are there correlations to be made? I have concluded that this is not the case, but you see it differently. I note that I would like to support this in writing, after which you can tell me whether you share my opinion or whether that is still not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-17.u15	Mrs Westerveld, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-17.u16	Yeah, I'd like one last word. The Minister gave a number of examples in his replies, for example of people who have suffered injury. But these are quite different examples, because you do not suffer injury because you have been put under government supervision and that has happened to these victims. I would like to say once again to the Minister, perhaps he can come back to this in his written replies to say that this is a very small group. It is not a question of millions of Dutch people, but of a very small group of people who have been signed for their lives, who are often in debt now and who have often failed to work for many years because of their past. Of course he has to take into account the laws and regulations we have, but I would ask him to look also at what is desirable and to do the right thing for this small group of victims.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-17.u17	I see the Secretary of State jabbering. Perhaps it would be a good idea if you also gave an appreciation of the motion that has been tabled. Finally, I will give the floor very briefly to Mr Cedar of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-17.u18	Maybe I can take this opportunity for a moment. I've just promised that the investigation is expected to come in the second quarter, but I have to correct that. It will be the second half of 2022. That's what I'm saying in view of expectations management. Let me put that in front of you. Then the appreciation of the motion that has been filed. [[Sentence could not be parsed: Ik kan niet anders dan aangeven dat ik de motie niet aangewezen acht.]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-17.u19	You advise the motion-Westerveld/Van Nispen in part no. 815. Thank you. Mr. Ceder, I'd like to ask you to be very brief, because we're running a little out of time. Anyway, it's a delicate subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-17.u20	I'll do my best, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-17.u21	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-17.u22	I have focused specifically on the group that has benefited and may now be in legal debt restructuring. My first question is whether the Minister can find out by letter about how many people this is about. Maybe it's zero and I'm not fighting this fight for anyone, but I'd like to know how many people this is about. Second. I know from my experience in cases like this as a lawyer that, at the moment you're in the Wsnp, all the money you get goes into a property, so also the allowance of €5,000. That's a pretty strict rule. I understand that, too, because you have to deal with the creditors. The cabinet says in the letter: "What is always possible is that a person who is a victim and is in a debt relief process, contacts his or her municipal debt relief provider or if someone is on a Wsnp journey with the Wsnp managing director. It is then possible to examine individually what is possible through an application to the creditors or to the judge-supervisor." Mr. Chairman. This opens the way for the cabinet, if someone is in this situation and has received €5,000, to go to a judge commissioner. But when I hear the Minister like that, you will find a closed door on the steps to the Judge Commissioner, while that does not have to be the case as Recofa, the group of judge commissioners, which does not have to be laid down in the law, decides to exclude this amount. We have done so with the Dutchbatters' concession; I have submitted that motion myself with the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-17.u23	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-17.u24	Is the Minister ready again to talk to the Judge Commissioners to make it possible, in line with what you are writing here, that when people take the step to the Judge Commissioner, they do not come to a closed door?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-17.u25	I suggest that the Minister responds in writing to the question in any case. Maybe that's the best thing to do, considering the time. I see the Minister nods. Thanks for that. This brings us to the end of this two-minute debate. We also have an extra arrangement. The Minister has indicated that he will return in writing... Do you have a question about the motion, Mrs Westerveld?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-17.u26	Mr Van Nispen thinks this is a very good motion and would very much like to be included.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-17.u27	Tell me right away! But I didn't give you the opportunity myself; I apologize for that. At least we are going to put Mr Van Nispen's name under the motion. I would like to thank the Minister for Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-17.u28	I suspend for a single moment and then we have an extra arrangement of work.
