ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-12.u1	Now that all the photographs have been taken, the issue is the consideration of the proposal of the law of Members Kathmann and Maatoug amending the Law on minimum wage and minimum holiday allowances and some other laws relating to the introduction of a uniform statutory minimum hourly wage and some other amendments. The Chamberpiece is 35335. A word of welcome to the initiators. Thank you for joining us. On that side there have been a number of changes, but the support in box K has remained the same, namely Elwin Wolters and Mrs Meike Hellevoort, employees in the PvdA and the Groenlinks groups respectively. I would also like to welcome the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment. She's working as an advisor to the Chamber tonight. In the debate before this, she referred to a committee debate, of which she said: it feels like it was a long time ago. Well, the first term of the Court's side took place on 9 September 2020 and the first-term response took place on 11 November 2021, but the pace is slowly rising. We are therefore ready for the second term of office this evening. I'm assuming that tonight we can complete the legal process as a whole.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-12.u2	I would therefore like to give the floor to Mr Van Kent, who will speak on behalf of the Socialist Group. The floor is up to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-12.u3	Thank you for that, Mr President. I was also told that the law was already in 2017. Can you check it out? Many thanks to the initiators, the original initiators and those who took over. It's a wish that lived in the Chamber for a long time. Many proposals have been made in the past, which have been consistently voted down by a majority. It is clearly wrong that there are different minimum hourly wages. This is also particularly complicated for enforcement. I know that this is also a long-cherished wish of what fortunately is once again called the Labour Inspectorate. It is a very good initiative, which can certainly count on the support of the SP. In the first term, the level of the minimum wage and the increase to €14 were also discussed in detail. Nowadays the target is €15. Especially in view of the screaming inflation, the price increases and further recent developments, that step is more necessary than ever, but I understand that this is about setting the minimum hourly wage. In setting the minimum hourly wage, we have seen a problem when looking at, for example, irregularities, a bonus or other matters. I am therefore talking about enforcement. If we look at what this hourly wage is about, there may be uncertainty and there may be a problem. We have tabled an amendment to that effect. It turns out it's very complicated. Lawyers at the Ministry have also looked into it. There has been contact and I understand that there are risks if we organise them in this way in the amendment. In the context of careful legislation and proper implementation, I would like to withdraw the amendment that has been tabled before, instead of tabling the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[considers that the minimum wage level should be achieved without cases such as irregularity payment, thirteen months or a bonus;]] [[calls on the Government to examine which concepts should be added, modified or clarified in order to ensure clarity, equal treatment and better enforcement of the WMM;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr. Van Kent.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35335-19]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-12.u4	Here's to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-12.u5	The Van Kent/Jasper van Dijk amendment (Doc. 16) has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-12.u6	Mr. Chairman. It is good that today we can continue to deal with this bill. Congratulations again to the authors. I understand that a great deal of good work has been done between the first and second periods. This proposal is an important step. It provides clarity for both employers and employees. It helps in the fight against labour exploitation. And there's a group of employees making immediate progress. But it's also a first step. From GroenLinks we cannot say it often enough: the minimum wage must be raised considerably, and quickly. I therefore call on the cabinet to take care of this quickly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-12.u7	That was kind of short. Then Mrs Palland from the CDA group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-12.u8	Mr President, thank you. For my part, too, I would like to thank the initiators, including those who responded, and at the time another spokesperson was present on behalf of my group. I was allowed to be at the first term of treatment. Here we are, hopefully, waiting for the conclusion of this own-initiative proposal. Mr. Chairman. At the first treatment I started my contribution by quoting a saying: at the end of your wallet I left another month. It's a reality for a growing group of people. Many people who work at or just above the minimum wage cannot make a good living on the income they earn. They must move forward under the line. Those who work normally for a living should not fall into poverty. We can achieve this through targeted relief, an increase in the minimum wage or a combination of these interventions. As far as we are concerned, we are also going to look periodically at the social minimum, which is also included in the coalition agreement, and to review whether that level is still sufficient to live on. The Minister, present here as an advisor, mentioned just a moment ago in the discussion of the previous two-minute debate the request we made, in my view together with the VVD and D66, for an analysis of the wedge, the difference between net and gross salary and the salary paid by the employer, which does not always end up in the employee's wallet. I think we should take a good look at the difference in that. I am very curious about the Minister's response to this, in order to gain more insight into it and ensure that work pays and does not hinder employers from hiring people. Mr. Chairman. The CDA sees this proposal as a good first step towards more security of life for people and more simplicity in our system. It helps in the standardisation and enforcement, so much thanks to the initiators. We welcome this proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-12.u9	Thank you. Then it is time for Mr Nijboer's undoubtedly critical contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-12.u10	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's a good time. It's always nice when MPs take the initiative to change laws and make society a little bit better. This is an example of that. There's a social discussion about the minimum wage. The PvdA believes that this should definitely go up to €14 and beyond. Of course, that is not what this proposal is about. But this is happening here: for some groups that are actually still at the minimum wage, 10% increase per month will be the result. Enforcement is also improving. That really makes society a lot better and fairer. This is due to the tiresome work of support, Mrs Hellevoort and Mr Wolters; congratulations for that. Of course, congratulations also to colleagues, but also to their predecessors. I do not want to leave Gijs van Dijk unnamed. They've done a lot of work for that. I would like to congratulate you on that. Mr President, you expect critical notes from me. I have a lot of them. But I'm just really excited that this seems to end well. Although we must also take the First Chamber very seriously as part of the States General. So they're not here yet, but I wish you luck in the defense there. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-12.u11	Very well, thank you. Then there is Mr Smals from the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-12.u12	Thank you, Mr President. You will be pleased: I too will be brief. Thank you very much to the initiators. Thank you very much for your support, of course. I'm always jealous of people who write an initiative bill. I hope I will be able to do that myself someday. In the Acts, I read that in the first term no use was made of the advisory right of the cabinet, which was at the time the State Secretary of State on this initiative law. Perhaps the Minister would like to give an opinion in the second term. The VVD welcomes the proposal. The biggest compliment that an initiative law can receive from the opposition is that the law is, in so many words, incorporated by the coalition into the coalition agreement. I think that does justice to this initiative law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-12.u13	Thank you. Then Mrs Van Beuker of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-12.u14	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As far as I am concerned, this is a very good example of how we can work together here in the House of Representatives. It may seem technical and small, but this proposal will make a huge difference in countering underpayment. And D66 is very happy about that. I would like to thank the initiators and the staff for taking the initiative for this law. I am also looking forward to a little advice from the Minister in the second term. Things have been a little different. Following the agreements in the coalition agreement, we can now wholeheartedly support the proposal. I would like to congratulate the authors. Now it really looks like this law is gonna make it. I believe that the original author, Mr Gijs van Dijk, and perhaps the spiritual father of the law, Minister Asscher, can look back on this debate with satisfaction. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-12.u15	Thank you. The last speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mr Léon de Jong of the PVV group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-12.u16	Thank you very much, Mr President. An initiative proposal that has gone a long way, but today it looks very good in the end. When it comes to the minimum wage, we are one step closer to ensuring more security of life for people. That is also part of this initiative. The initiators should be proud of that. It tastes like more that opposition proposals are embraced by the coalition. I look forward to it. I wish the authors good luck. It looks good. We now see that people are hit very hard by inflation, that people are caught hard in their livelihood and income position. It is not a very big step, but it is a step in the right direction that we need. Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-12.u17	Thank you. So much for the second term of office. Not many questions have been asked to the initiators, but perhaps they want to say something. I would like to give the floor to Mrs Kathmann, who may be able to answer all the questions. But I understand that Mrs Maatoug is going to speak as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-12.u18	Mr. Chairman. Work hard every day, but can't make ends meet. Have insufficient money to pay for groceries or rent. That is the bitter reality for many Dutch people. While supermarkets, KLM and call centers are wealthy and profits are booming, their employees are hardly making any progress. Warehouse workers, shop staff and call center employees, it's employees who make sure that our country runs, that there's food in our supermarkets and that there's just packages being delivered. These people, who are doing essential work for all of us, must live at €10 per hour. That's far too little. The minimum wage must therefore be raised considerably, but this first step is needed first: the creation of a minimum hourly wage. Such a minimum hourly wage does not yet exist in the Netherlands. With this Law introducing minimum hourly wage, we ensure that there is one minimum hourly wage, and that has many advantages, because it increases wages for a lot of employees. In some cases, it even goes up by more than €1. That is €40 in the week, €160 in the month and those are two full shopping bags. Workers are also better protected. Now malicious employers and temporary employment agencies are cheating with different minimum hourly rates. By introducing a fixed minimum hourly wage, the Inspection SZW can be better maintained. Workers can also better keep track of whether they earn enough. It provides better protection for all workers against exploitation and underpayment. It is therefore of the utmost importance that this law be introduced as soon as possible. I would also like to take a moment to thank some people. First of all, I would like to thank the great official support we have had. Then our advisor to the minister, because that's always nice to say. But also thanks for people behind the scenes: Meike Hellevoort van GroenLinks and especially my colleague Social Democrats Henk Nijboer, Gijs van Dijk and Lodewijk Asscher. And last but not least our great collaborator here behind me: Elwin Wolters, who has worked on this with heart and soul. I really don't think this law would have come without him. So this is going to mean, hopefully, if we get further, that there will just be two full shopping bags with families who now, as Mrs Palland said, have a month left at the end of the wallet.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-12.u19	Then I'd like to answer the questions, but no questions have been asked. That's nice. A lot of comments have been made on how happy everyone is that this is happening and how happy it is that we can do this in solidarity and unanimity. That's cheerful. I would also like to give the floor to my colleague, Mrs Maatoug, to thank her for her cooperation in responding to the motion tabled by the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-12.u20	Then I would like to give the floor to Mrs Maatoug. The floor is up to her.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-12.u21	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Before I give an appreciation of the motion from us, after which the Minister will give the appreciation and the advice that has been requested, I will still pass on the comments, despite the fact that no questions have been asked. Because how often does it happen that you can look from left to right, from one side of the Chamber to another, and can say: thank you for the compliments; they have been received and I have written them down.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-12.u22	You're gonna grab your moment, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-12.u23	Yeah, I thought I'd check to make sure I didn't forget anything. No. Thank you for the compliments. Before I'm really gonna give the appreciation... The only thing I really want to say is everything Mrs Kathmann says. The beauty of it is that you did that very nicely in the introduction..... that this shows that making a law takes a long time, but that a lot of people are working on a law. The people you see here, the people who sat before this, the people who came up with the idea, the people in the business and, above all, the people who preceded us. Thank you to them and especially to fellow comrade Mr Van Dijk. Thank you for the motion, Mr. Van Kent. It's a very nice motion. As far as I am concerned, motions are always judgment Chamber, because we have our own judgment. But this one I give with love from this trade-K judgment chamber. I'm very curious what the advisor will say to the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-12.u24	Thank you. Then I would like to give the floor to the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment in her capacity as advisor to the two initiators. The floor is up to her.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-12.u25	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Many thanks to the initiators and all the predecessors of the initiators, but this evening Mrs Kathmann and Mrs Maatoug are particularly welcome. Thank you, too, on behalf of my colleagues in the cabinet. Compliments for submitting, defending and, above all, maintaining the initiative legislative proposal for the introduction of a minimum statutory hourly wage. I am pleased that there has been good cooperation between the initiators and the official support in the preliminary phase. As a former member of the Chamber, I attach great importance to the fact that there is good support and that you can get support if you want to come up with something and work it out. Then about the content. With you, this cabinet attaches great importance to making work more rewarding. The statutory minimum wage provides the reward for work and makes it pay to work. This is about the minimum hourly wage. Moreover, we also intend to increase the minimum wage, as you know. That is a different discussion from this discussion, but that is also important, which, in particular, means that those with a normal working time of 40 hours, for example, are in fact already getting close to 11% of what Mr Nijboer said. People in between are, of course, a little less, but they are still getting better. In order to achieve a minimum hourly wage that is up-to-date, this cabinet is in favour of the initiative legislative proposal. There is also broad social and political support for this. The benefits are huge. They've already been mentioned. I would like to repeat them for a moment, because the cabinet really agrees with that. A legal minimum hourly wage and a minimum holiday allowance make the minimum wage Act fairer, because the minimum hourly wage becomes equal for everyone. This can now vary from sector to sector. The second reason is that this makes the law better adapted to the current labour market. It has a much greater variation in working hours and forms of work than when it was introduced in 1969, when the 40-hour week was standard. The third reason is that a legal minimum hourly wage is more insightful for employers and employees. You no longer have to check which collective agreement you are covered by. This is also beneficial for enforcement by the Dutch Labour Inspectorate. Finally, as I said just now, workers who are now working in the sector with a normal working time of more than 36 hours a week and who now deserve to be at minimum wage level will clearly improve. In conclusion, the cabinet can enthusiastically support the initiative legislative proposal. Let me make my final point. As regards the initiative proposal, we are awaiting the actualisation of the implementation test of the UWV and the outcome of the weighing on hand by the Tax Administration for the introduction on 1 January 2024. I expect to receive both at the beginning of June at the latest. The first signs are that no major changes will be required for entry into force. Maybe there's still a technical change to be made somewhere. Of course, we can't rule that out. That is why I am asking for the votes to be held until we have those execution tests in place. If something needs to be changed, it can still be done technically. The Social Insurance Bank has also recently stated that it considers it necessary to carry out an implementation test on the initiative proposal for its introduction on 1 January 2024. It's probably gonna take a little longer. I'll inform you in writing as soon as we have it. That was news to me, too. I asked the SVB today to put speed behind that, so they're going to do that execution test really fast. You have my commitment that we will still be able to introduce the law on 1 January 2024 and that this will not stand in the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-12.u26	That's a request from the Minister. That's what we're gonna do as a room.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-12.u27	Yes, this is a request.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-12.u28	I'll see if there's any objection to that on the part of the Chamber. We were going to vote on this on Tuesday, but now we are postponing the vote. I'm also looking at the initiators with a slanted eye. It's the MPs who have to embrace or stop this. I call Mr Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-12.u29	I don't want to press the joy tonight. I think it's wise.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-12.u30	What's wise?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-12.u31	It is wise to wait for the execution keys. So I'd like to go along with that. I would like to point out that as President, you mentioned how long this process has been going on. The Minister started with: I was also a Member of Parliament; we need good support. On the part of the cabinet and the execution, the testing could have been started a little earlier. We could have just voted. That is a critical note that fits me as a Member of Parliament. I think we should wait for the tests. That's okay, provided the date of introduction isn't compromised.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-12.u32	That is the unbinding condition imposed by the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-12.u33	You have the commitment that I am committed to doing so. I also think it is important for the law to be introduced. I agree with you that one of these three things, albeit not all, could have been quicker. The other two keys were already running. With a letter of amendment, the UWV and the Tax must, of course, look again to see if it is still possible. We're gonna take care of that together. That's the conclusion for me. Thanks to the initiators. There is a very nice bill for which there is a great deal of support and which has been embraced by the cabinet in the coalition agreement. I think we all agree that this is a necessary system change and that it is important for all those workers you have referred to.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-12.u34	Nice closing words, but I also want to hear about the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-12.u35	Apologies, Mr. Chairman. That's the Van Kent motion in part No. 19 to examine which concepts should be added, modified or clarified. I say to Mr Van Kent that, in preparation for this debate, I went into a number of these concepts and, frankly, I found it rather confusing. It's about how you finally figure out how to get the minimum wage and what does and doesn't fall under it. But the main thing is that employers can use a different term and thus circumvent that concept. That is not the intention, of course, and that is why the motion for a resolution receives a ruling from the Chamber. We're just gonna do that motion actively, because I think there's some work to be done. You've seen that very well, Mr. Van Kent. So I'll take it with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-12.u36	Thank you to the Minister for her presence and her role today. Thanks also to the initiators and their guidance. Thanks to the MPs.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-12.u37	We're going to vote on the law, but that won't be Tuesday. So much for this debate. I shall close the meeting on 11 May 2002.
