ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-14.u1	The subject is now the examination of the legislative proposal 36162, the adoption of the Protocols to the North Atlantic Treaty of Accession of the Republic of Finland and the Kingdom of Sweden, established in Brussels on 5 July 2022. I would like to welcome the Foreign Minister to the First Chamber. I would also like to welcome the ambassadors of Finland and Sweden, excellence, to this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-14.u2	I give the floor to Mrs Karimi on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-14.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On behalf of my group, too, we warmly welcome the ambassadors of the two countries. The fact that we are having this debate today is, of course, a direct consequence of Russia's aggressive invasion of Ukraine on 24 February and the request to join NATO by the two countries, Sweden and Finland, on 18 May. This makes it clear what the current geopolitical situation is. Let me be very clear at the outset: for us, it is very understandable that Sweden and Finland have felt the need to apply for membership. Because if you have a neighbouring country, a nuclear power, which violates all the principles of sovereignty and international law, then it is understandable that you are seeking protection as a country. Finland and Sweden have taken the historic decision to say goodbye to their historically neutral position. For my group there is also no doubt that these countries meet the criteria for accession to NATO. I can make it exciting, but let me not do that: the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance will give its full support to this bill. Nevertheless, we have a number of questions which I would like to put to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. The first concerns Russia's response to the accession of Sweden and Finland. According to my group, it remains unpredictable. At the moment, Russia seems to be reacting moderately or mildly, as far as Mr Putin could be said. However, they insist that there is no NATO infrastructure on Finnish territory. But in view of the fact that Putin has shown time and again that he is unpredictable, we are very concerned about the risks. This raises the question of how we are preparing for a more aggressive reaction, a possible more aggressive reaction, from Russia when Sweden and Finland actually join NATO. The second question concerns the reliability of our own NATO ally, the United States. Of course, that has to do with the fact that we still have the position of the previous President, President Trump, in our memory. There will be elections in the United States again. Those who follow American politics know that Mr Trump is trying to run again. The analysts probably think he can be president again. That would, of course, be a major problem for NATO. So my question is: should it come to this, and I realize that this is really a question of dancing, but it is still a matter of preparation, and the United States will decide to take up a position as we know it from President Trump in his previous period, will the European Member States alone be able to face Russian aggression? My third question concerns the position of Turkey and the trilateral agreements made between Finland, Sweden and Turkey. We're very worried about that. The Minister can imagine that. At the moment there are requests for the extradition of 73 people of Kurdish origin, sometimes just with a Swedish passport, which Turkey would like to have extradited. We know that this type of extradition request has been made before and that these extradition requests have so far not been honoured. So we have confidence in Sweden's rule of law. Nevertheless, these trilateral agreements seem to give Turkey sufficient comfort to say: okay, I can agree to that accession. I must say that it is also complicated, because of course we do not know what interpretation can be given to these agreements. Can the Minister tell us why the Netherlands trusts that no Kurd, or Swede with Kurdish background, would eventually be extradited to Turkey? Mr. Chairman. My final point concerns the guarantees given to Finland and Sweden for the period between now and eventual accession to NATO. For that period, the Netherlands itself did not give a security guarantee, but the other Member States, the United States, the United Kingdom and France did. In practice, however, what is the position of the Netherlands, should a situation arise in which these countries should support Sweden and Finland? Can we then call on the Netherlands? In what way is the Netherlands preparing for such a situation? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-14.u4	Thank you, Mrs Karimi. I call Mr Van Apeldoorn on behalf of the SP, also on behalf of the Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-14.u5	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the SP groups and the Animal Party, let me also warmly welcome the ambassadors of Finland and Sweden. The legislative proposal now before us has been adopted by a very large majority in the House of Representatives. The expectation is that it will not be any different here in the Senate. With this, the Netherlands will probably never have ratified a treaty extending NATO so quickly. Therefore, these are exceptional times. However, it is a good thing that we do not call this a debate in plenary, but that we reflect on what can indeed be called an historic step. My group certainly still has a number of questions. Listening to the debate in the House of Representatives only recently, but also in view of previous reactions in the media of ministers as well as other politicians and experts, there seems to have been some sort of euphoria about the accession of Sweden and Finland to NATO. It is widely celebrated as perhaps the best news since the beginning of Russia's brutal war against Ukraine, as a huge strengthening of the alliance. But my group and the Group of the Party of Animals do not entirely share this sense of hospitality. In our view, it is particularly sad and a sign of how quickly the security situation in Europe has turned out to be bad, that these two Scandinavian countries have now clearly considered this step towards applying for membership to be necessary. As we know, the SP and the Animal Party have always been very critical of NATO, especially since after the Cold War the alliance had become an instrument of American intervention policy. This trend became even stronger when NATO became part of the so-called global war against terrorism, with all the disastrous consequences of this, rather than fighting terror, with the so-called 'global war against terrorism', which has caused a great deal of death and destruction. The political groups of the SP and the Animal Party hope that the accession of Sweden and Finland will increase the likelihood that NATO will be protected in the future from this kind of military adventure, that NATO will leave this interventionist and militaristic course and that it will concentrate on its core task, as far as we are concerned, is that the only task is to defend the NATO territory. Does the Minister share that hope? Mr. Chairman. It happened fast. In mid-April, a month and a half after the beginning of the Russian invasion, the Prime Minister of Sweden, Magdalena Andersson, expressed his opposition to accession, as she feared this would lead to further destabilisation of Europe's security situation. But in a few months' time Sweden and Finland have turned and said goodbye to their years of neutrality. In the case of Sweden, I think that was almost part of the national identity. We all know the reason for this historic turn: the unprecedented Russian aggression against Ukraine and the threat it poses, especially by those countries that are so close to Russia and, in the case of Finland, share a border of 1,300 kilometres with Russia. For the first time since the fall of the Berlin Wall, the planned expansion of NATO is a direct reaction to Russia's aggression and imperialist politics, whereas it was rather NATO and the West that were characterized by expansionism. That makes this accession for my group and for the Animal Party, rather always opposed to NATO enlargement, of a different order. But this doesn't mean we don't have any worries. Ensure that a new Iron Curtain is brought down in Europe. Make sure we're on the eve of a new, long Cold War. In an opinion paper in the Financial Times, Anne-Marie Slaughter, leading the prominent think tank New America, warned that an overly rapid expansion of NATO with Sweden and Finland would lead to a deepening of schism between East and West in Europe. How does the Minister view this risk? Does the Minister consider this to be a possible risk? And how can this deepening of schism possibly be partially prevented, or at least partly reduced? How can we prevent the dropping of a new Iron Curtain and prevent the Iron Curtain from being there for years or perhaps even decades? Slaughter did not oppose the accession of Finland and Sweden, but argued against a hasty decision and a pause for reflection. We are not talking about a radical pacifist from the margins of the public debate, but about a former top official and top advisor to Hillary Clinton. The opportunity for this pause, which she advocated, has now been overtaken by political reality. We acknowledge that, too. That does not mean that we should not take Slaughter's analysis to heart. Her concern, shared by our two groups, was that, if we now allow the two Scandinavian countries to join NATO, and especially if we leave it at that, it could lead to a new permanent division of the European continent, and I am probably quoting Slaughter's words now, translated into Dutch, a much bolder and more courageous thinking about how to achieve peace and security in Europe in the twenty-first century. My group believes that the accession of Finland and Sweden to the alliance is inevitable and welcomes them, but we hope that there will still be room for this courage and courage, the courage and courage to think about alternatives to NATO in the long term. The suggestion put forward by Slaughter, who also referred to the words of President Bush in 1981, which advocated a 'Europe, whole and free', is that we should reconsider a new pan-European security architecture. With this, Hillary Clinton's former top advisor argues for something the SP has been advocating for 20 years. As I said earlier in this place, it is a tragedy that we have missed the historic opportunity to forge such a security architecture after the end of the Cold War. Instead, we have received the east expansion of NATO. Of course, I recognise that we cannot achieve this inclusive security structure as long as Russia continues to pursue an aggressive imperialist policy under Putin and ignores all the principles of the previous agreements with Russia, from the Helsinki agreements to the 1990 Paris Charter. But that does not relieve us of the duty to continue thinking about the possibilities of such an inclusive security architecture. After all, that is the only architecture that will make Europe truly safe. I would also like to invite the Minister to use his creativity, courage and courage to think and continue to think, even in these extremely difficult circumstances, about how we can achieve this real peace and security in Europe sustainably and therefore beyond the present NATO enlargement and, above all, think about how we will prevent it from contributing to what Anne-Marie Slaughter and other analysts warn, namely the new Iron Curtain tearing the European continent in two.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-14.u6	I hear Mr Van Apeldoorn in his analysis, when I look a bit through his words, still blame NATO when he talked about enlargement to the east. Is it true how I feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-14.u7	Well, I don't know what extension you're talking about. I blame NATO for the expansion of NATO?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-14.u8	I am concerned about the situation that has arisen. You are more or less saying that it is because NATO has been unjustly extended to the east.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-14.u9	No, I didn't say that. I said: we welcome this enlargement with Finland and Sweden and we see this enlargement as the result of Putin's aggression; point. I also spoke about the previous enlargement of NATO. It happened in a different context. At that time, Russia was not aggressive in this way. That was after the Cold War. At that time there was even a partnership with Russia. We were opposed to enlargement at the time, because we felt that this was not the way to go at the time. It would have been better if we had sought the eventual abolition of NATO, NATO and the former Warsaw Pact, in a new pan-European security structure. We missed a historic opportunity there. There were, for example, Partnerships for Peace with NATO. It was perhaps a better alternative at the time to go on with it for longer. That has also been considered for a long time by the American government. At some point it was said: no, we should expand. That was a controversial decision, which I say was a mistake. This has indeed contributed to an unnecessary increase in tensions with Russia at that time and the years after. Your former leader, Mr Bolkestein, warned about that at the time. But you can't draw a direct line towards the current war.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-14.u10	Finally, Mr. Arbouw.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-14.u11	Then perhaps I have tasted well that you put it that way. At the time of these Partnerships for Peace, I worked at NATO as a diplomat on behalf of the Netherlands. I've been through those conversations with the Russians myself. Do you not think that it is ultimately up to those countries to decide whether or not they want to belong to NATO?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-14.u12	We can now repeat the debate on the previous enlargements. I'd be happy to.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-14.u13	No, no, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-14.u14	I will respond very briefly. It is up to each country to apply for membership, but then it is up to all countries to decide whether or not we think that is wise. The door is open, but that doesn't mean everyone can come in right away. It is not for nothing that we have to hold a parliamentary debate in all 30 countries or agree through the ratification procedure.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-14.u15	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-14.u16	That is also the case with the enlargement of the EU. That goes for the same thing here. In this case, we say to Sweden and Finland: welcome, even though we have many questions about what that means for the future and the security situation of Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-14.u17	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-14.u18	I shall continue my speech, Mr President. The SP Group is pleased that Sweden and Finland have indicated that they do not wish to extend NATO's military infrastructure on their territory, i.e. not permanent NATO troops or the installation of heavy equipment, let alone nuclear weapons. As far as we are concerned, these two countries are sticking to that. That would only deepen the East-West rift, while it would not be necessary for the defence of the NATO territory. Does the Minister agree with me? Does he agree with the Group of the Party of European Socialists and the Group of the Party of European Socialists that the other members of NATO, when all the countries have ratified, should not urge the new members to expand that military infrastructure? I'd like a response from the Minister. Finally, a few questions about the trilateral deal made with Erdogan to enable this accession. Mr Karimi also spoke about it. My group is still concerned about this. What exactly does the government consider these agreements to be? We also welcome Finland and Sweden because they are such strong democratic constitutional states. Turkey is not at all. You are increasingly wondering, for example because of Turkey's illegal invasion of northern Syria, what that country is still doing in NATO. Can we be sure that whatever has been agreed will always be fully respected the principles of the rule of law and that no pressure will be exerted on the acceding countries to deviate from this even one millimeter in the future? I'd like a response from the Minister. Erdogan claims that there are people out there in Sweden who actually belong in prison. But what about the many people in NATO member Turkey who are in prison there but who, according to the Human Rights Court in Strasbourg among others, do not belong at all and should be released immediately? What about all the political prisoners in Erdogan's Turkey? Can we talk about that, too? Has that been discussed at the historic NATO summit? I'd like a response. To sum up, Mr. Chairman. The Group of the Party of European Socialists and the Group of the Party of European Socialists support Finland and Sweden's request to join NATO as a defensive alliance. We therefore support the proposal before us. But we also say that it is our duty with these new allies to do everything we can to prevent this from becoming the starting point for a new cold war, and that, on the contrary, we will strive for a genuine, sustainable European security architecture, in which NATO, then 32 countries, will eventually be able to join. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-14.u19	Thank you, Mr. Van Apeldoorn. I call Mr Koole on behalf of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-14.u20	Mr. Chairman. Within three days I will be able to speak in this Chamber in three plenary debates on subjects which cannot be separated from the dramatic events that have taken place on this continent since 24 February. The Russian invasion of Ukraine on that day not only meant an act of brutal aggression against a neighbouring country, resulting in many civilian casualties, but also made it clear that the security situation has changed dramatically throughout Europe. Especially NATO Member States close to Russia felt the threat of the great eastern neighbor. All NATO countries decided on additional defence expenditure. The presence of troops from NATO countries near the eastern border of the NATO area increased. And two so far neutral countries, Sweden and Finland, took the historic decision to apply for NATO membership. The members of the Labour Party welcome Sweden and Finland to NATO. This historic step contributes to the security of both countries, but also strengthens NATO. At the same time, this brings NATO closer to the Russian Federation. The Russian-Finnish border, Mr. Van Apeldoorn also mentioned the same thing about the town of Apeldoorn is 1,300 kilometers long. How does the government appreciate the latter? Can this strengthen the sense of NATO's threat to Russia? Has this increased the chance of a direct war between NATO and Russia? The formal conditions for joining NATO are, according to the government, that a country is in Europe or North America, that it must have a stable legal order and that it must contribute to security in the Euro-Atlantic region. Both countries, Sweden and Finland, certainly meet this requirement. However, it is important that their accession depends above all on the agreement of a NATO member, Turkey, who fulfils that second criterion of a stable legal order only very limited. Mr Van Apeldoorn also mentioned this. For example, Turkey refuses to implement the ruling of the European Court of Human Rights in order to release a political leader of the HDP, Demirtaş. And whether Turkey is a robust democracy is one of the three criteria which the government considers to be a reason to allow Finland and Sweden to join NATO. Does the government recognize this inconvenience? Does the government also recognise Turkey's attitude towards the PKK? Does the government have any idea of the concessions that have been made to Turkey to give up the opposition to Sweden and Finland's accession to NATO? Can the government indicate when, when the accession protocols are approved by all NATO Member States, Sweden and Finland will be fully integrated into NATO, both politically and militaryly? And what does their accession mean for the Strategic Compass drawn up by the European Union this spring and for the even more recent Strategic Concept of NATO? Mr. Chairman. It has already been said that the decision on the accession protocols is taking place very quickly, but in our opinion it is in a state-lawly correct manner. The special situation of a war on our continent justifies that speed. The twilight situation between complete neutrality and full membership of NATO should be as short as possible. Rapid approval by the Dutch Parliament and by most other NATO Member States can act as a powerful signal, both towards the Russian Federation and towards Turkey. Hopefully we will send this signal in our country today.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-14.u21	Thank you, Mr Koole. I call Mr Otten on behalf of the Otten Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-14.u22	Mr. Chairman. I will immediately fall into the house, including the Swedish ambassador and the Finnish ambassador, who are here in the public gallery. Our group will vote wholeheartedly for the accession of Finland and Sweden to NATO. Especially for this occasion I have today adorned myself in blue and yellow, the colors of the Swedish flag. I hear Mr Koole making a comment now, but I say to him that I cannot wear all the colours at once; then it becomes a rainbow outfit. It is also a good thing that the Netherlands is dealing with this accession to the NATO of Finland and Sweden as a matter of urgency and that we can vote on this tonight so that this law enters into force as soon as possible. In the current war situation as a result of the barbaric invasion of Russia in Ukraine on 24 February, it is of the utmost importance that these two Scandinavian countries, both bordering the Baltic Sea and Finland with a border of 1,309 kilometres with Russia, join NATO as soon as possible and that the protection of Article 5 of the NATO Treaty should apply to these countries as soon as possible. Article 5 says: an attack on one is an attack on all. Since the establishment of NATO, Article 5 of the North Atlantic Treaty has also guaranteed security for the Netherlands over the last 73 years. In my opinion, what we sometimes do not realise in the Netherlands is that the Russian invasion of Ukraine in Sweden and Finland has caused an even greater shock than in the Netherlands. Partly because of the proximity of the Russian base in Kaliningrad, it is an even more existential issue for these countries than for us. Finland, of course, also has an extensive history of Russian aggression. The Swedish island of Gotland, in the middle of the Baltic Sea, is also of great strategic importance. This rapid accession of Sweden and Finland will hopefully prevent and reduce Russian dominance in the Baltic Sea. Mr. Chairman. With the accession of Sweden and Finland to the EU, we see opportunities for a new start of a kind of northern alliance between the Netherlands and the Scandinavian countries within the EU and perhaps also within NATO. In the past, in a different capacity, the Minister has tried, among other things, the frugal four, but we will not talk about that. This accession to the NATO of Sweden and Finland gives the Netherlands a good chance, even among EU members, for a new fresh start to this Nordic Alliance within the EU. For the Netherlands, this could have many advantages, because these countries are on the same lines as the Netherlands on many matters. Mr. Chairman. Rounding up. The accession of both Sweden and Finland to NATO increases the security of both these countries and of the other NATO countries. We shall therefore be voting in full favour of this accession this evening. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-14.u23	Thank you, Mr. Otten. To balance yellow, the chairman and clerk are today in blue and white, the colours of Finland. That's how we're complete. I call Mr Beuker on behalf of the Nanninga Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-14.u24	Thank you, Mr President. We talk about historical and special times. And that's not ironic. The euro is in decline, the cabinet is tripping from crisis to crisis, inflation is getting out of hand, the ECB keeps pushing money, the energy transition does not really want to succeed and immigration figures break all the records. To the extent of disaster, Putin invaded Ukraine for the second time on 24 February. Experts would've warned me about it. Few believed Putin would really be that crazy. Looks like the dictator made a mistake. Especially when you talk about the first weeks of the raid, you can talk about bath planning, but also about bad execution. It seems that he thought he could quickly take a number of cities, drop the government and install a vassal, such as the Belarusian Lukashenko. Ukraine, however, offered very courageous resistance. In the meantime, the West showed a rare consensus: sanctions, military support in the form of weapons and ammunition, but above all the terrifying force of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation. All were and are factors that have prevented the full Russian annexation of Ukraine to date. But let there be no misunderstanding: it is NATO that guarantees our security. It is therefore logical that NATO should join Finland and Sweden. As far as JA21 is concerned, these countries are of course welcome. I am happy to say this, also to both ambassadors present here. These countries meet the criteria laid down, as Mr Koole has just indicated. As far as we are concerned, the accelerated procedure can certainly be applied. Membership not only offers them the much-needed nuclear umbrella, but it also demonstrates why we should not use a European army. Finland and Sweden choose the strongest partner to ensure their safety. They do not come here to ask to participate in some semi-imaginary European army. My group is therefore in favour of the proposed extension of NATO Quick Reaction Force proposed by Secretary General Rasmussen. The security of the European Union and its countries and the security of the Netherlands and its allies depend on the strength of NATO. That's why Putin has been so miscalculating. As a result of his invasion, he got an upcoming NATO member state on his Russian borders. This was precisely when he wanted to prevent Ukraine from tying itself more closely to the West and thus giving Russia a western threat at its borders. Putin knows that NATO is the great power of the West in the military sense. Sweden knows that, Finland knows that, and my group knows that. That is why we will always argue for the minimum 2% of GDP, not only in promises as made in Wales, but in real doing and delivering now. I would like a reply from the Minister as to whether he agrees with our group. Finally, Mr President, my group is also in favour of rewarding the good and punishing the bad. We are very curious to see what arguments and instruments are being used to ultimately convince Turkey to agree to these two applications for accession. We would also like to hear that from the Minister. We look forward to the answers. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-14.u25	Mr Beuker himself mentions the European army, or European defence. He is strongly opposed to this, because that must be and remain NATO. He's against a European army.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-14.u26	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-14.u27	My question to Mr Beuker is: who is proposing this? No one really suggests that, I think, certainly not the Dutch Government. I haven't heard much of it. But something else is, of course, a European leg within NATO that needs to be strengthened. This morning we also discussed an increase in defence expenditure with the Minister of Defence and the Secretary of State for Defence. There very much emphasis was placed on European cooperation within NATO. This is already happening within European cooperation. The armed forces of Finland and Sweden have also been involved in exercises for a long time. They will then be formally members of NATO if they are admitted to NATO and if everyone has ratified it. But is Mr Beuker's formal opposition to this European cooperation within NATO, in which Finland and Sweden can also participate? Or is he resisting that, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-14.u28	I welcome Mr Koole's question, because I would like to make a misunderstanding clear: I am not a Member, and fortunately my group is not against European cooperation. In fact, in my last position at the Defense Department, it was my daily job to promote that. I have been at the cradle of, for example, the integration of army units into the German army. So international cooperation? Fine. But we don't need extra headquarters. We're gonna need some firepower. We do not need duplication of existing capacities. If you look at the added value of the American commitment to NATO, you will see that we cannot do without an American commitment. We shouldn't want that either. We shouldn't duplicate. I'm just taking the example of the satellites, the missiles and the communication systems. We must do this in the context of NATO. We should not lean on an idea in Paris or Brussels to do so independently in a European context.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-14.u29	I agree with Mr Beucker. It is just that nobody is actually advocating European cooperation, that European army. Sometimes you hear from France something that goes in that direction, but nobody else. There is such cooperation within NATO, but that means that within the European Union there is also a bit of a parallel structure in the sense of the rapid deployment forces that have now been announced of 5,000 troops, with their own chain of command, perhaps aligned with NATO, but in parallel. So it is absolutely right that Mr Beukker will not get on that point. There too Sweden and Finland will be welcome, I assume, also according to Mr Beuker.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-14.u30	Yeah, yeah. Mr. Chairman, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-14.u31	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-14.u32	We are certainly in favour of them being full members and wanting to participate in these EU Battlegroups of reaction forces, or whatever we're going to call them. They will participate, because that only increases the quality and impact of the units. But what matters, and what everyone, including here in our house, needs to realize, is that the national armies must have capacities. They're supposed to have impact force. They must be able to work together, but under the umbrella of NATO as far as we are concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-14.u33	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-14.u34	I was done.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-14.u35	You're done. I shall then give the floor to Mr Van Rooijen on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-14.u36	Mr. Chairman. The 50PLUS Group welcomes the accession of Sweden and Finland to NATO. I also welcome the ambassadors of Sweden and Finland. From a cultural and mental point of view, Sweden and Finns have, of course, been part of our Western European community ever since we were reminded of them. It is good that they are now drawing the military consequences of this. It feels like friends living in the same house. Yet this accession has nothing festive. The reason is literally a bloody serious one, namely the military rudeness with which Russia is currently housed on our continent. Human lives, even of their own soldiers, have no value to the Kremlin when it comes to power. President Putin is also sacrificing his own economy, i.e. the prosperity and well-being of his own Russian citizens, on medieval territorial thinking. It's a bit primitive, but at the same time it's ominous. 50PLUS represents the generation who lived in the threat of the Cold War after the Second World War. We remember the air bridge to Berlin. We remember Hungary. The frightening chess between Kennedy and Khrushchev about the rockets in Cuba. The building of the Wall. The rebellion in Prague and, finally, Poland. The Cold War was unpleasant, often ominous. America came in 1947 with the Doomsday Clock, the clock that indicated how far we were still removed from total destruction. This one started with seven for twelve, and stood on two for twelve. After the fall of communism, the clock returned to seventeen for twelve. That clock was not only a symbol of the threat of uncertainty, but also of determined vigilance. We were in class. After the fall of communism, after the reunification of Germany and after Gorbachev, we hoped so fervently that blunt policy of power would be completed in the past. The youth sang the music of Hair in those years: "When the moon is in the Seventh House and Jupiter signs with Mars then peace will guide the planets and love will steer the stars." The twenty-first century would be the Aquarius and of love and peace. Do you remember? Happy, but touching naive at the same time. We didn't have to be vigilant ourselves anymore. As we danced and sang, the stars would bring us peace. But the violence echoed the Balkans. The Twin Towers didn't help. The Arab Spring turned out to be mostly autumn. It remained restless, but fortunately not too close to the door. That illusion too is now over. The senseless destruction and the devastation of people are only one street further and can be seen and felt from our garden. In our streets, the refugees walk. Mr. Chairman. Sweden and Finland are strong countries. Both share borders with Russia: Finland over land and Sweden over the Baltic Sea. These strong countries have not known for a moment throughout the Cold War that Russia's threat was felt to be so strong that NATO should still be the safe house. But they have that feeling now. Mr. Chairman. That frightens me. That is why I welcome both countries as friends of a long time, but I cannot make a happy face. The circumstances are not festive, but alarming. 50PLUS expects the Netherlands and NATO to welcome Finland and Sweden in the spirit of the quality shown by these countries during the entire Cold War. That is to say, serious, vigilant, in such a military situation that Russia is really going to feel where the border it has crossed is. The coming years will not be easy, not even economically. Buying off money from one problem after another by this cabinet will not be possible in any way. The belt is coming back into the picture for the government and for all of us. The prosperity ring of the global economy is over and the hangover shows a divided world where only its own importance counts. Mr. Chairman. In the long run, that's not a solution. In fact, in the long run, that's fatal. This can only lead to friction, conflict and ultimately violence and destruction. Let us therefore do what needs to be done, invest in a strong defence that deters any power from even pointing at us. Realize that our economy is getting strong headwinds. The international market is getting more restless and smaller. There will be regular energy shortages. In the meantime, climate must also be a priority. Let us in the West stop political polarization and spoilt prosperity bickering. The problems are a little bigger than all these modern hypes. The freedom of the West is the basis for an international society in which every human being counts and prosperity can be widely shared, without making an irresponsible change on our planet. Finally, Mr President. 50PLUS will radiate that image, determinedly. Playtime's over. By the way, did you know that the Doomsday Clock is currently at 1 minute and 40 seconds before 12? He's never been this close to midnight. Mr. Chairman. The 50PLUS Group will vote with conviction in favour of ratification of the Treaty. I am pleased that I was able to express this text in the presence of the two ambassadors.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-14.u37	Thank you, Mr. Van Rooijen. I call Mr Frentrop, on behalf of the Ferrtrop Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-14.u38	Mr. Chairman. We consider Sweden and Finland to be friendly countries with the Netherlands. Military cooperation with both countries is self-evident. However, the accession of both countries to NATO is not self-evident. NATO could always function well without both countries, even during the hottest moments of the Cold War. Military cooperation with Sweden and Finland remains perfectly possible without these countries becoming members of NATO. After the Russian invasion of Ukraine, Sweden and Finland feel threatened, understandably. It is clear that NATO membership is in the interests of both countries. The question before us, however, is whether this membership is also in the interest of the Netherlands. An affirmative answer is not obvious. After all, it would mean that the Netherlands would take on an additional duty to defend more than 1,300 kilometres of border with Russia, which until now could be regarded as a buffer zone. In addition, NATO is both a political and a military organisation. Membership of Sweden and Finland limits the political space that the Netherlands currently has to react if one of these two countries were to be attacked unexpectedly. Decision-making on such an important question should therefore be carried out in an extremely careful manner. I have already heard glowing speeches here expressing our warm feelings towards our friends in Sweden and Finland. But even when we're talking about friendly countries, we have to keep our heads down. This is a balancing of interests: on the one hand the interests of Sweden and Finland and on the other hand the Dutch interest. It's not that that's why I put on an orange tie, but it fits into tonight's design. Mr. Chairman. Now the Dutch Minister of Defence wants to have Swedish nationality, in addition to the Dutch Minister of Defence. For the record, we have no objection to double nationalities. The more nationalities someone has, the better for us. Normally, dual nationality does not raise any objections, but in this situation it does. If a balance is to be made between the interest of Sweden and the interest of the Netherlands, there may be a conflict of interest between a ruler of both nationalities. We see the problem of conflict of interest in some parts of society. Codes of conduct have been introduced to regulate this; think of the Dutch Corporate Governance Code. But I believe Mrs Moonen has something to ask you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-14.u39	I do not want to ask a question; I wanted to say something earlier. I think it's a little unpleasant that this is being told here. I think we're talking about Minister Ollongren here. I do not think it is relevant at all what has been said about her here. She also has Dutch nationality and she works here as a minister, so I do not think it is relevant what Mr Frentrop says about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-14.u40	Mr. Frentrop, I suggest you continue your argument without returning to it. Can you do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-14.u41	Well, no, it's the essence of my argument. It is not aimed at the minister's person; it is about careful decision-making. Potential conflict of interest in decision-making is a serious matter. We need to look carefully at that. I'm just asking for care and I wanted to ask you a few questions to see if that care has been taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-14.u42	Then let's get rid of the person as much as we can.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-14.u43	I mentioned the Dutch Corporate Governance Code. It says that, among other things, there is a conflict of interest when a transaction is entered into with a legal person with whom a director has a family-law relationship. I also wanted to quote the Board and Supervision Act, which has been in force since 2013. It has the question of when there is a conflict of interest, legally framed by the Wedding Judgment of the Supreme Court of 2007. Different forms of conflicting interest have been distinguished in the literature. One of these is the indirect conflict of interest. This is the case when a driver is in a special relationship with the other party. In short: "From the moment an agenda item is opened up for discussion and thought-forming, the driver with a conflicting interest should no longer be present. Thought formation and discussion within the board should be possible without being influenced by the presence of the driver with a conflicting interest." This is a quote from the Chambers. Should this rule not also apply to the deliberations of the government of the Netherlands, of the cabinet? Especially when it comes to national security, to matters of life and death, the decision-making procedure must be careful, including within the cabinet, and it is precisely this Chamber's job to see to that. That is why I have three questions to the Minister about the procedure followed, but I see that the Minister is in discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-14.u44	The minister's in the middle of a conversation. We'll just wait and see. Ah, the minister's back. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-14.u45	Minister, three questions. Does the government recognise that there is a potential conflict of interest when the Minister of Defence has family relations with the two nations whose security interests need to be weighed up? Secondly, has the Minister of Defence taken part in the discussions within the cabinet on the NATO membership of Sweden and Finland? The third and final question: has it been considered in the bosom of the cabinet not to involve the Minister of Defence in the decision-making process concerning the accession of Sweden and Finland to NATO in accordance with the spirit of the Administration and Supervision Act? I look forward to answering the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-14.u46	That concludes your input? Yes. Then Mr Otten.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-14.u47	I am a little disappointed that Mr Frentrop is using this debate for the nationality of the Minister. I haven't spoken to Mr Frentrop in years, but he was always married to an American. I don't know if you're still married to this lady, but there will be a conflict of interest for you if we have to decide here. I believe that you will have the same problems as Minister Ollongren, unless those problems are no longer present. I do not think it is appropriate to start in this debate on the nationality of the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-14.u48	This is a personal fact of Mr Frentrop. You don't have to answer that. That's out of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-14.u49	I'm not.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-14.u50	Then Mr Koole.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-14.u51	However, on this issue of a supposedly conflicting interest of Minister Ollongren. My question to Mr Frentrop is whether there is any reason to think that Mrs Ollongren, Minister Ollongren, would not represent the Dutch interests well. In my view and in my group's view, that is absolutely not the case. Then perhaps Mr Frentrop will say: that is not my concern, it is the formal aspect that concerns me. Well, let's get to the formal side. The Minister has sworn allegiance to the Constitution, as have we all. Isn't that enough to say: that's the end of the matter? I find it very strange that Mr Frentrop is bringing this up in this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-14.u52	I would like to answer that, because I think Mr Koole is at the heart of the matter that I want to raise. It is not that I think or suspect, or whatever verb I want to use, that the minister would not have acted completely honestly. So I'm definitely not assuming that. I would just point out that if you look at the procedure followed with a cool mind, in my view it would have been a proper procedure if the cabinet had said before the deliberations "there is a conflict of interest here, yes or no, we can deal with it, yes or no, and how do we do that?" and had carried it out. But just completely ignore the situation, pretending nothing's wrong, I don't think that's the right form of governance. What my questions are actually aimed at is to get a more careful balance in the management of the Netherlands. Because there are more cases with potential conflicts of interest. We've got the public service. We have the government that has just resigned from the Groningen Maatschap because the gas interests of the government are different from...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-14.u53	Let's just narrow it down to...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-14.u54	So it plays more often. I'm trying to tell Mr Koole that it's not an ad homine moon attack, but that it's about making the government aware of the need to make a pure decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-14.u55	De facto, it might be an ad homine moon attack after all. Let's get back to the formal side. Ministers in the Netherlands are screened before they are appointed ministers. There's a lot of research going on. I told you, they must swear allegiance to the Constitution. So once they have passed through that screening and are admitted to the government and also enjoy the trust of the Dutch Parliament, all the conditions are met, I would say, to have every confidence in such a minister who represents the Dutch interests. So I really don't think it's going to be a good thing to bring this up. And it is almost also a little out of the order of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-14.u56	I must disagree with Mr Koole. I understand the importance of screening. But I am concerned with a conflict of interest not that the person in such a position has been screened for his character characteristics or I do not know what. It's about the role of that person in a specific transaction. The conflicting interest can play a role in this. Nor have I had any problem with the dual nationality of the Minister of Defence so far. But now we have a very important matter to discuss. Finally, the question is: should we defend the territory of Sweden? Then, in my view, there will come a time when the government must at least be aware that you should not charge the appearance of conflict of interest. I'm trying to find out if the government has been aware of that. Those were my questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-14.u57	Finally, Mr Koole.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-14.u58	She is the Dutch Minister of Defence in the Dutch government. She represents the Dutch interests. The rest of the discussion is irrelevant.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-14.u59	I have another question. Mr Frentrop pointed out that it was not in Dutch interest for Sweden and Finland to join NATO. Perhaps Mr Frentrop could explain that further?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-14.u60	But I'd like to be brief.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-14.u61	I have said that it is not self-evident that this is in Dutch interest. I am, of course, still waiting for the discussion to take place. I see very clearly the importance of Sweden and Finland to join, because these countries will then be covered by the safety umbrella. I too have the warm feelings for the Swedes and the Finns. The tendency is of course to say: boys, join us and we fight Putin together. But I'm also looking at the Dutch interest. Is it really in the Dutch interest not to keep a buffer against the Russians there in the north? Is it really in the Dutch interest to extend NATO to the Russian border there in the north? I'd like to be convinced of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-14.u62	In my own contribution, I will deal with a number of things in this area later.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-14.u63	Thank you. I call Mrs Huizinga-Heringa. It speaks on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-14.u64	Thank you, Mr President. The Russian raid in Ukraine makes our Western world tremble. Sweden and Finland, who longed to remain neutral for years, decided in a few months to seek protection from NATO. My group agrees with the accession of these two countries to NATO. The first and most important reason for this is that we do not want to abandon countries that feel threatened by Russian aggression, which meet the requirements of NATO membership. They may join the defensive alliance. At the same time, it is worth remembering that NATO itself is also being strengthened by the accession of Sweden and Finland. This enlargement will enable us to better defend the northern and eastern borders of the alliance, including the fragile Baltic states, even if the border with Russia is almost doubled. The expansion of NATO is a powerful signal towards Russia. The attack on Ukraine does not weaken the West, but makes it stronger. There is also a first question from my group. Russia has made serious threats if Sweden and Finland join NATO. NATO certainly should not bow to that. But how does the Minister assess the seriousness of these threats? Is the Netherlands, is NATO sufficiently prepared for any repercussions, military or non-military? And are measures being taken to prepare us for this? What is the position of Sweden and Finland during the period when their membership is not yet official? Can there be support for possible aggression from Russia? And what could it look like? I would like to hear a response from the ministers. Mr. Chairman. A concern of our group is the MoU which is closed between Sweden, Finland and Turkey in order to veto Turkey. We understand that the government's position is that the Netherlands is outside. Officially, of course, it is. However, my group would find it particularly harsh if some Turkish refugees who have taken refuge in Sweden or Finland had to pay the price for the accession of these countries to NATO. Can the Minister confirm to us that where the Netherlands has an opportunity to exercise influence for the better in this area, the Minister will not fail to do so? Mr. Chairman. My group has always been in favour of the transatlantic link and NATO. That is why we will support this proposal. We welcome Finland and Sweden.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-14.u65	Thank you very much, Mrs Huizinga-Heringa. Mrs Moonen has the floor on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-14.u66	Mr. Chairman. Russia's threat has prompted Sweden and Finland to give up their long-cherished neutrality and to join the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation. A larger and stronger NATO: the opposite of what Putin was trying to achieve with the invasion of Ukraine. We are pleased that we can now have this debate, including in the presence of the ambassadors of Sweden and Finland. D66 strongly supports the accession of Sweden and Finland to NATO. We believe that the future of defence lies in international cooperation within the EU and NATO. The war in Ukraine shows how important international cooperation is for the peace and security of the inhabitants of Europe, the United States and Canada. It is interesting to note that Canada is the first country to adopt the accession of Sweden and Finland to parliament. It is clear that Sweden and Finland meet the three conditions for accession: the country must be in Europe or North America, have a stable democratic legal order and contribute to security in the Euro-Atlantic region. Parliament's ratification is taking place exceptionally quickly, but in view of the security situation, the Group considers this to be justified. Given that the Swedish and Finnish intention to join NATO had been known for some time, the group has also been able to take a careful decision, and that is that we are very much in favour of this. The group is still concerned about Turkey's position and colleagues have already spoken about it. On the agreement signed by Turkey, Finland and Sweden, I have a few questions for the Minister. How does he see the legal status of the memorandum? What if Turkey is going to make additional demands or ask for additional commitments? Finally, Mr President. Until all 30 countries have ratified the requests, Sweden and Finland may still be vulnerable. They are not yet able to invoke Article 5 of the Treaty an attack on one country is an attack on all countries, because they have not yet actually acceded. Article 42.7 of the European Union, the mutual defence clause, obliges the Netherlands and the other Member States to assist Sweden and Finland if the security situation demands it. I have the following two questions for the Minister. What action will the Netherlands take if Russia attacks Sweden or Finland before full ratification? The second question: is there a role for the Dutch Parliament if action is to be taken in accordance with Article 42.7 of the EU and Article 51 of the United Nations Charter? And, if so, how does the Minister see this role? The Group looks forward to the Minister's answers with interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-14.u67	Thank you, Mrs Moonen. I call Mr Arbouw on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-14.u68	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A brief contribution on my part. It is good that the ambassadors of Finland and Sweden are present in the debate. We appreciate that very much; thank you very much. Mr. Chairman. The VVD Group wholeheartedly supports the accession of Finland and Sweden to the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation and therefore the adoption of the present NATO protocols. The changing geopolitical situation after Russia's raid in Ukraine is looming in many areas. Many countries change their security and defence policy on the basis of the situation that has arisen, just like we in the Netherlands. This morning we discussed, among other things, the accelerated purchase of the F-35 and the drones. It is gratifying to note that this has brought the European countries together more urgency and that they are now much more aligned. It is, of course, understandable that the European countries Finland and Sweden now want to increase their own security by joining NATO, so that they can claim the umbrella provided by Article 5, which has already been mentioned by many groups. Both Finland and Sweden have been working closely with NATO countries and NATO structures for a long time. They practice a lot together, too. I have also talked a lot about it in my time in Brussels. They have a strong and well-developed military force and therefore meet all the criteria for accession. But in addition to the fact that this accession of course means a great deal to these countries themselves, it is also very important for the treaty organisation. The accession of Finland and Sweden strengthens the European pillar within NATO. In addition, the north flank of these countries is now within the Convention Area. On that side, there have been major concerns for some time about the development of the climate change, the melting ice cap and thus the emergence of new transit routes and the struggle for raw materials, the security situation there. The same applies to the difficult geographical situation of the Baltic States. Of course, there's no depth in it. Kaliningrad is next to it, between Poland and the Baltic States. And behind them, in the back, is the Baltic Sea. The connection between Finland and Sweden will better cover their backs. It also dramatically strengthens the position of NATO in the Baltic Sea. In short, it is important for NATO to welcome both countries, Finland and Sweden, with open arms. They are an important reinforcement for NATO, which will enable European democracies to defend their security, interests and democratic values in a united manner. That is also in the interest of the Netherlands. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-14.u69	Thank you, Mr. Arbouw. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the first term? That is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-14.u70	The next item is the continuation of the examination of the legislative proposal 36162, adoption of the Protocols to the North Atlantic Treaty of Accession of the Republic of Finland and the Kingdom of Sweden, established in Brussels on 5 July 2022. I give the floor to the Foreign Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-14.u71	Mr President, thank you. May I begin by expressing my deep gratitude to the Chamber, to the chairman of the committee and to all the Members present for the virtually unprecedented speed. I remember from another past that there often has to be a lot on the last days before the recess and that rabbits sometimes come out of the hat where there is a feeling that it must be done very quickly. I do not know if it is without precedent at all, but this is taking place on such an important subject, with so many repercussions, with very, very high speed. Of course, it is not for me to anticipate the final decision-making in this Chamber, but the cabinet is very grateful to the House of Representatives, the Council of State and also the First Chamber for doing so as quickly as possible. I would have liked to have said that again, because I know what that means in the last few days before the recess. Mr. Chairman. Many Members of your Chamber have referred to the totally changed context and to the unprecedented times in which we live. Perhaps you can say that the fact that we have this debate is the most important and best illustration of this. It is not so long ago that when you spoke to friends, colleagues or others in Sweden or Finland about whether NATO was not what it would be for them, you were cognisantly looked at and referred to a distant and distant future. I have already referred to the discussions I had with my Swedish and Finnish colleagues at the time in a committee Chamber, as well as having had a long and unsuccessful dialogue with Norway on the European Union, for example. The fact that this has been viewed so differently in Finland and Sweden and subsequently in NATO countries in recent months shows that something is really happening in Europe and in the world. It shows that something is really going on and that the war in Ukraine is under unprecedented pressure on security, stability and peace in Europe for the first time since the Second World War. So this has motivated both countries to take this step. This too has just been acknowledged, and I am quite right to say so, by not every speaker who has mentioned it. We have all read that there were administrators, and I believe the President of Finland and others, who, until very shortly before the attack, thought they could understand from the words of the Kremlin and of Putin personally that this would not of course happen. I then understand very well that, if you get that personal insurance and that war is going on, the conclusion must be that Putin's word and the Kremlin's word when it comes to it are potentially worthless. The combination with all the horrors that we see makes Sweden and Finland take this step and ultimately also makes us having this debate here today. I will, of course, try to answer all the other questions that have been asked as well as possible. I've already done a few things in the introduction, but I'll mention one more thing about what we're trying to do with the war. Mrs Karimi and a number of other speakers also referred to the wider context. Then I come to the accession negotiations even more specifically. The most important thing is to enable Ukraine, through the weapons we supply, the sanctions that we announce, the aid for reconstruction and diplomatic aid, as well as possible, and to keep it, sometimes against the cliffs, in order to preserve its own sovereignty. We will continue to do so as a Dutch cabinet, and I believe that feeling and intention are much broader in Europe and in North America. The second thing we are trying to do, as I said earlier, is to ensure that this does not lead to a major conflict. This has gotten out of sight, because the reports in the newspaper have also changed a bit. We aim that this would not lead to things that would potentially mean a much greater war. That is one of the reasons why NATO countries are individually taking significant steps in helping Ukraine in the military field and NATO is not a party at the same time and should not want to become a party in this war. I think that is exactly the right way to balance things. On the third point, I would also like to be explicit. That is what we, as a cabinet, would like to see, and I suspect that this House can count on broad support for what should be left to Putin and other dictators looking at this conflict. In any case, it must remain on the screen that the price for this kind of thing is so high that dictators will change their minds in the future before they take such a step. The international community must show that there is no room for imperialism in the 21st century. That is essential, because if that is not the conclusion, but the conclusion is that you will eventually get away with it, then you also have to take serious account of more of this kind of very considerable inefficiencies in the future. So that's what we're trying to achieve with each other in the war. Mr. Chairman. Then there are a number of safety issues. A number of Members have asked for this. I believe that Mrs Moonen, Mrs Karimi, Mr Koole and Mr Otten have asked about safety guarantees in the meantime. That is a very relevant question, because that is precisely one of the things that was recognised shortly after the establishment of NATO as something in the design of NATO to which you have to relate. If a country says it wants to join and the NATO treaty says it is at war and part of its territory is occupied by the enemy, then that makes accession impossible. So you want to prevent one square millimeter from being occupied by a country in order to make accession impossible. This has led the United States, the United Kingdom and others to say that they are pro-actively coming up with security guarantees. That's exactly the way it should be, I think. As the Netherlands, as Minister Ollongren said, under Article 42 (7) of the EU Treaty, we are also obliged to contribute. This feeling lives very strongly and widely in the European Union. My firm impression is that Sweden and Finland, on the one hand, have also found it very uncomfortable that it seemed that the discussion would last longer. At the same time, it has motivated many parliaments and governments to take much speed in this no-man's land in which we are now governed by treaty. Moreover, that period between application for membership and membership is covered by those security guarantees.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-14.u72	Thank you to the Minister for replying. Those guarantees given by the EU, or the obligation arising from the EU Treaty, are, of course, much weaker in military terms than NATO Article 5. Minister Ollongren has also confirmed this in the Lower House. My group considers it really very important to clarify the next question. We hope it doesn't happen, but should it happen, what does that mean in the military sense for the Netherlands? Can the Minister clarify that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-14.u73	Not operational. It would also be unwise to speculate about it operationally. But what is absolutely clear is that we have also confirmed this to Finland and Sweden, and the security situation would therefore ask, is that the Netherlands is also prepared to provide assistance there and also to provide military assistance and to make an active contribution to military measures there. Then we're very far into an "if-then." I do not deny the efforts that we will be able to make, but we must also recognise that it is even more important that the United States and the United Kingdom have already said that they will pursue this route. We will, of course, do so. My suspicion is that you will then have a much wider reaction from the European Union. We have been a public square, but also in the inner room, clear that we will support Sweden and Finland.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-14.u74	There has been no formal guarantee by the Netherlands, as the UK and the US have done. Does this mean that, should the situation occur unexpectedly, the Dutch Parliament will be informed and asked for permission before the Netherlands provides any assistance?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-14.u75	I say this with caution, but I believe that it is a matter of state law that the Article 100 procedure obliges the cabinet to enter into talks with the States-General. If such a situation were to arise, as Mrs Karimi described, it might only be half-relevant if it complied exactly with the procedure laid down in the Article 100 letter. Then it is very obvious that the cabinet will in any case seek dialogue with the States-General. If the cabinet itself did not come up with that idea, the States-General would come up with that idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-14.u76	The D66 Group welcomes the Minister's response. He states that Article 42.7 simply enters into force at the intermediate stage, if the security situation so requests. My question was about the role of Parliament. He already started talking about that. The Article 100 procedure lays down what it means for the States General, but perhaps it is not an Article 100 procedure. Can the Minister say anything about that? How does he see the involvement of both parliaments?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-14.u77	That is exactly what I was trying to say in response to Mrs Moonen's question. An article 100 letter deals specifically with the activities of the Dutch armed forces outside the NATO territory. Nevertheless, activities in the NATO territory are often accompanied by extensive communication towards the Chamber. In such a situation, we are really talking about a very extreme as-the-dance situation, and it is very obvious in Dutch political relations that the dialogue with Parliament should be sought. I'd like to make a formal commitment to that, too. Then you can always discuss whether that means that you will never do anything operational without consulting the States General. Everyone will understand that the urgency may sometimes require matters from a cabinet. Of course, the cabinet will be informed in such a case, where we are all widely provided with information in the media and where you are sure that a similar discussion will take place in a variety of countries, as the dialogue with the States-General is looking for it. I'd like to say one more time that nothing is out of the question. We're a long way in when-then, if-then, when-then. I do not want to leave it on the screen that the cabinet sees this as a probable scenario in the next few weeks or months. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Karimi asked about the United States and the elections there. I would like to stress once again that the United States is an essential ally for the Netherlands, but also for NATO. You can imagine that if you are present at those NATO meetings, you will look around the room and wonder what everyone, not only in terms of the size of the population, but also in terms of military capacity, is able to put one incomparable with all the others. That's the United States. I think we should be fortunate that they have been so actively involved and so involved on this continent. In my belief, they will remain so. There are many issues on which there is still some disagreement in the United States regarding domestic politics, but in foreign policy we have seen a great deal of agreement in recent months, regardless of party affiliation. Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Apeldoorn asked for a floor of the schism between east and west, the lowering of a new iron curtain. It is important to emphasise once again to what and to whom we owe this conflict. We have seen that there were all kinds of things that could not be accepted at all, earlier in Ukraine, in Georgia and in all kinds of other places. I am not even talking about cyber attacks, which Sweden has suffered under the radar in the military sense, and mention all these small and large examples. It has been Putin who has decided to pull more than 100,000 troops together for the border of Ukraine. Although many had hoped for a different outcome, Putin finally decided to simply attack a sovereign country, where to address the greatest horrors, not to care about international law and so on. Does that mean that we are fired from diplomatic efforts or other efforts? No, of course not. But we must also continue to see this situation for what it is, namely, completely, but totally, totally, totally, totally, totally, totally, totally, totally, totally, totally, totally, totally, totally, totally, totally, totally, totally, totally, totally, totally, totally, totally, totally, totally, totally, totally, totally, totally, totally, totally, totally, totally, totally, totally, totally, totally, totally, totally, totally, totally, totally, totally, totally, totally, totally, totally, totally, totally, totally, totally, totally, totally, totally, totally, totally, totally, totally, And that also means that that cannot mean business as usual at this stage, nor, in my view, in the short term or in the medium term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-14.u78	The Minister now pretends that it is the first time that Ukraine has been invaded. I made it clear in my speech that it is the second time. So where's the big difference? In my perception, we're just eight years late. We should have just intervened in 2014. Now we're actually too late.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-14.u79	I said exactly five sentences ago that the previous raid in Ukraine also fits that pattern. So that is what Mr Beuker and I are very much in agreement with each other. I have often said, I think also in the Upper House, but certainly also in the Lower Chamber and in the media, that I am content with the sharp reaction, wide from the West, to this war, but that looking back you can see no other than that the reaction of the international community to the invasion in 2014 was less than lukewarm. I very much agree with that. In hindsight, but I say that without criticizing predecessors or anyone else, it is very easy to do so, compared to what we saw at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-14.u80	The Minister says that we need to look closely at the current situation and how it was created. He says that we are dealing with unprecedented Russian aggression and with a country that is working hard on all the rules of international law. Exactly those words I used in my contribution. I think the Minister and I agree. But my question was of a slightly different nature. We can see that, but then there is the question of what we are committed to in the medium term. The Minister says: of course we must work for diplomacy, but also in the medium term I do not see much scope for it. I still want to ask him to reflect on what I said in the first term about what Anne-Marie Slaughter warned about. At some point you can take steps that are irreversible. But when we say "this is the situation, it is no different and we leave it at that," it will also be difficult to imagine another future, even post-Putin. Can the Minister please go into a little more detail on what I tried to argue in the first term?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-14.u81	I would like to do that, but I also think it is important to keep us truly in the lessons and events of the Cold War. The Iron Curtain has not been a choice of the West. The closure of Berlin has not been a choice of the West. It has not been the West's choice to get rid of the countries that we ended up calling the Eastern bloc. This also applies to everything that happened after the war in Prague and in what was then still called Czechoslovakia. These have all been choices made by the Soviet Union, which have strengthened the West in the belief that a containment strategy was necessary to ensure that the situation would not derail further, but also to draw a line into the sand. No one in this room is after a reprise of the Cold War. But if you see what's happening there and you realize what's still to be repaired and undone there, what's to be done about reparations and what's to be done about justice, then it's hard to imagine that in the future of the coming months and the next few years you can make dramatic changes to the Kremlin, as it is now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-14.u82	One more question, Mr. Van Apeldoorn.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-14.u83	I would like to avoid that also encouraging the President to have a whole debate with the Minister on the history of the previous Cold War, but I am looking at it a little differently, and with my many historians. The choice for the Iron Curtain at the time is a choice made also in the West. Maybe we can come back to that another time. At least it was another assessment of the situation back then. But it also shows exactly what I am afraid of, namely that a parallel is being created between the previous Cold War and now. And that it is said: the Soviet Union was then expansionist. By the way, I don't think it was. The Soviet Union had expanded, but did not want to continue towards Western Europe. But we can have that debate another time. Now it is said that we are actually in the same boat with Russia. But it's a completely different situation. Today's Russia is not the Soviet Union of that time. Today's situation is not what happened back then. If you assume that in advance, it becomes a selffulfilling prophecy. Then we get another Cold War and a repeat of history. I am asking the Minister if he can think about how to prevent this. Of course, Putin has done what he has done, but that does not relieve us of the duty to look at our own actions and what we can do to prevent self-filling prophecy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-14.u84	This is so fundamental that I have to say a few things about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-14.u85	Then I suggest we finish up after that. Or we should have the rest of the afternoon indeed...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-14.u86	I didn't argue that the West did everything right in the Cold War. Mr Van Apeldoorn made the comparison with the Cold War in his term. We, as well as the SP, cannot ignore the fact that in the Cold War the Eastern bloc felt that a wall and a curtain were needed to ensure that their own people would not go to the West. That wasn't a choice from the West. It is essential to continue to realise this. You can see all kinds of things in which Moscow may be different from the Moscow of the Soviet Union, even if it is only in the area of ideology, but at the same time you must see that something is happening now for which the primary choice has been made in the Kremlin. We have to fight it. That does not change the fact that I agree with Mr Van Apeldoorn that there should be an effort, including ours, to see how you de-escalation. How do you ensure the best possible situation in Ukraine for the people and the government there? However, I also think it is important that we are not naive about what we think we can achieve by talking.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-14.u87	May I suggest that we return to the answers to the questions asked?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-14.u88	Mr President, thank you. This brings me to another subject on which a number of questions have been asked, namely the MoU between Sweden, Finland and Turkey. Undoubtedly, this is an element that both ambassadors also follow with great interest. It is very much appreciated at all that they have wanted to take the time and effort to be present. Mrs Karimi said it herself, and Mr Koole also said it: those agreements were made between Turkey, Sweden and Finland and the Netherlands are not part of this. It does not bind the Netherlands. Nor does it bind NATO as an organisation. Mr Van Apeldoorn asked whether this is a deviation from our values and standards. That's not my impression. Model states do not exist, but I do not know many countries in which the rule of law, trias politicians and human rights are so much on a pedestal and so much part of culture as in Finland and Sweden. I am assuming that this is also reflected in all the comments made in both countries by the two fellow ministers, Mr President, that the rule of law will continue to be taken as seriously as it has always been so far. By the way, that's exactly how it should be. There has also been a very extensive reference to what a judge is about in Sweden and Finland. That seems to me exactly as it should be. Maybe I should finish a few things in this block, Mr. Chairman. If Mrs Karimi felt she needed it, she could take it too, because she had asked one or two more questions. She also asked whether we in the Netherlands can trust that nothing illegal is happening in the area of extradition. I have just said that it is an agreement that we are not part of, but my experience with these two countries is that they have a long history of taking their own rule of law extremely seriously. I therefore find it almost presumptuous to suggest that we are going to interfere in whether that is going well. My two colleagues, the President of Finland and the Prime Minister of Sweden, have, in my view, been crystal clear about this. Mr Van Apeldoorn asked: is that a deviation from the values and standards and do I think that this creates additional pressure? Let me put it diplomatically: I am pleased that this has been achieved at the summit, because it initially looked a little less fluffy. The efforts of many, including the Secretary-General of NATO, have made it possible for parties to come together in the end. That is essential, because we live in a time when unity is of such enormous importance. No matter how you talked about this summit; if this had not been done, it would have been a huge scratch on the blazing of all of us, of NATO. Mr Beuker asked what arguments and instruments convinced Turkey? I can't look into Turkey's maps exactly. I can only say that I have had a lot of contact with all three colleagues. I have been in close contact with my colleagues from Turkey, Ann Linde and Pecka Haavisto from Finland to see if we can keep the dialogue going. This also applies to many other colleagues. Of course, there has been very intensive diplomatic contact. What was ultimately the key, I do not think it is up to me to speculate. I'm very happy that it worked out. Mr. Chairman. There was one more question, and then I'm putting an end to this block. What is my expectation of the future? Firstly, my expectation is that many parliaments, like the Dutch Parliament, will be inspired to do so with speed, if only because of the security situation. Mrs Karimi was right to ask. That situation really requires speed in the process. My expectation is that this will eventually work for all 30 countries. I hope that will be possible in a few months' trial. But of course I am not talking about the Dutch process, at least not about the responsibilities of the States-General, let alone about parliaments in other countries. That is where we depend on the democratic processes of Member States. But others too move heaven and earth. This means that we will probably end up with the first ten. Everyone tries to do it much faster than usual. So I think that, in its entirety, we are looking forward to a few months' journey. Mr President, that was all I had put together about the MoU. I will be on Turkey and human rights there in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-14.u89	I agree with the Minister that it is a bit uncomfortable to take a measure here in Sweden and Finland in the area of the rule of law. They have an excellent track record in that area. That is also a bit of the curious thing about this situation. On the one hand, we have confidence and we know that extradition requests have been refused so far, but at the same time certain agreements have apparently been made that have given Turkey sufficient guarantees, so that Turkey now says: I have what I wanted and here is the list of those 73 people. We don't have that explanation. That makes me feel uncomfortable. In concrete terms, my question to the Minister is: what do the NATO community and like-minded countries like the Netherlands have in hand to engage in talks with Sweden and Finland in order to clarify this? What is the guarantee that those people who have done nothing wrong will not be extradited to Turkey?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-14.u90	I understand the interest. However, it is important to separate between the different parts of the question, because in the end three countries have agreed a MoU with each other and there are three of them who have the same content. None of the NATO Member States are individually bound to this. NATO is not bound by this as an institution. This means that we will continue this dialogue with both countries on all the issues we have already had an intensive dialogue on. The Dutch cabinet is a member of the European Parliament, and I shall now come to Sweden and Finland, for a number of reasons, which I shall be referring to in a moment. We will certainly continue the dialogue on human rights with Turkey. I have also indicated in my bilateral contacts that we are very concerned about aspects of the rule of law, human rights and convictions. We will continue to do so regardless of the MoU between Turkey, Sweden and Finland. Once again, we are not talking about it; I would really like to emphasise that. This is between three other countries. But these two countries, Sweden and Finland, are definitely among the best boys and girls in the class when it comes to human rights and their track record. That also requires some caution to ask questions about it from the outside, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-14.u91	Yes, I agree, but at the same time we are of course very concerned, especially many people from the Kurdish-Turkish community in Sweden. My question to the Minister is very specific. Imagine if tomorrow we read in the newspaper that an x-number of those people are being extradited to Turkey. What is the position of the Netherlands in such a case?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-14.u92	I think that, quite frankly, is the kind of question that the debate is going to take a direction that I do not think is appropriate, because the Netherlands has a dialogue on human rights with all the countries where we consider it relevant. This is, moreover, a dialogue with Sweden and Finland, and Denmark, Norway, Germany and the Benelux countries, which is mainly about how much we agree and how we can give it a broad interpretation. By the way, I do not mention a lot of countries. It is not intended to do that deficit, but these are, of course, countries that are most like-minded in that area. I am convinced and I am confident that the institutions in Finland and Sweden have been fully equipped to make exactly the same kind of considerations they have been making for many years on the basis of the Swedish and Finnish constitutions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-14.u93	Finally, Mrs Karimi.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-14.u94	Finally. It would be really unacceptable for my group if it were to end up with the Kurds, people from the Kurdish community in Sweden and Finland, paying the price for this situation and being sacrificed for strategic choices by NATO, Sweden and Finland, as has unfortunately happened so often in history with the Kurds.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-14.u95	I understood that correctly, but I have no reason to believe that this would be the case. As far as I am concerned, I would like to stress once again, and also to reassure Mrs Karimi and others, Mr Koole and a number of other speakers, that, as far as I am concerned, we in the Netherlands, in the much broader and good dialogue that we have with Turkey, will always be asking for human rights to be taken into account and we will also be very concerned about this. For that too is always a place and a time, but we will continue to give substance to it, and in my conviction with great support from both Chambers of the States-General.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-14.u96	Just a brief word, also following on from Mr Karimi's questions. Before there are any misunderstandings, my group also did not intend to take Finland and Sweden into account when it comes to their rule of law. So I fully agree with the Minister's words. At the same time, however, it is a fact that, as Mrs Karimi said just now, there has been great unrest in the Kurdish community in Sweden, for example. Those concerns exist. My group's concern is about the situation as it is today. The memorandum's there. Then you can say: that will all go according to the rule of law, because that is what has been agreed. At least that is what we can assume in the case of Sweden. But also after the summit Erdogan stated once again that it is not actually a done deal yet. He said: it might still be possible that we may not agree after all. It also has to go through the Turkish Parliament. I do not know if the Minister has any idea when this will take place, but Turkey's ratification is not yet in place. When it comes closer, the pressure can of course be increased by Erdogan making additional demands on the implementation of the memorandum or perhaps introducing new requirements. This could create a situation in which Sweden, for example, would be put under certain pressure which would be difficult to resist. Then we assume that Sweden will resist it. But my point was actually: can the Netherlands help to ensure that this pressure will not occur, at least not from the Netherlands and possibly not from the allies, because this is not the price we want to pay for the accession of Sweden and Finland?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-14.u97	I understand that question very well. I am going to repeat it very briefly: we really have the utmost confidence in the institutions in Sweden and Finland. Two. Europe, including the Netherlands, has previously said that the PKK is considered to be a terrorist organisation, but that is also the subject of specific agreements. There are specific safeguards. In the Netherlands, Sweden and Finland, it is always an individual. That whole piece is clear, I think. I fully understand Mr Van Apeldoorn's question. He says: what can we possibly contribute to this? I would like to say first of all that everyone, including the Turkish President, has now spoken so explicitly at that NATO summit about everyone's commitment, that I really expect this to work out in the end. Do I have a 100% guarantee for that? Can I rule out for now and for all eternity that there will ever be a pebble in the shoe again? No, of course not. Without increasing my own role, I will at least be speaking to colleagues myself that, because of the great importance of NATO and of unity, we very much hope that this process will be completed with speed in all parliaments and by all governments. In this case, of course, I will do so in particular in bilateral contacts; so will the Prime Minister. So I very much agree with Van Apeldoorn.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-14.u98	I'll take a look at the time, Minister. How much time do you think you need?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-14.u99	All I have left is the varia cube, Mr. Chairman. So I'm almost done. Mr Frentrop asked whether the accession of Finland and Sweden was also in Dutch interest. I'd like to argue that it is. I have just indicated why I understand very well that Finland and Sweden are making this choice. That is quite something for Finland, if you look at the history of the Winter War and of decades of being very well-equipped for a possible war, but on the other hand keeping formally distance from NATO. It's also quite something for Sweden. Sweden has a history of about 200 years of neutrality. The only time the Swedish government delivered weapons to another country was during the Finnish-Russian war. It is now said that I understand that assessment very well and I also support it that, on the basis of the current safety situation, there is a need for a different type of guarantee and another safety umbrella. That is the choice for NATO. Then there is the question of what this means to us. Of course, you extend the group of countries to which you make a commitment from 30 to 32 or, in the case of the Netherlands, from 29 to 31. That's true. But these are two countries that are very close allies from the European Union. There are few countries with whom we are so like-minded. Moreover, we already have treaty obligations under the Treaty on European Union. They are countries which meet all the criteria of NATO's open policy. We have just discussed the rule of law in detail, but you would like many countries to have the rule of law, democracy and all the procedures that go with it in order as these two countries. Then one final piece. That would not otherwise have been an exclusion criterion, but it does help enormously. These are two countries which have their own defence very, very, very well in order. In Finland, this has come from a much longer history and Sweden has become wise, in particular, because of what has happened over the past fifteen years. They are countries that have really learned the lessons of history better and have also been less fooled by the peace dividend than some others. In this respect, therefore, they are of great military added value to the alliance. I agreed with Mr Beucker that the 2% remained important. He knows the commitment of the Netherlands to work towards this during this cabinet period. I can say it's actually seen. The US President has referred to it and others, including NATO, have seen the Netherlands take a very big extra step in addition to the 3 billion of the coalition agreement and grow to that 2% already during this cabinet period.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-14.u100	It's exactly what the Minister says. Only, I still miss a small part, namely that during this period we are going to fall below 2% again in the cycle. The question is: are we going to keep that 2%? Because for the total 2% there is still about 8 billion missing.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-14.u101	I think it's just different. I think we are growing to 2% in this cabinet period. That's what we'll achieve by 2025. After that, there's no automatic guarantee that you'll stay on that. This means that there is homework for the coalition parties who will meet at the latest after the elections of 2025. Guarantees in the ultimate long term are never there. But although I do not know the security situation at all in three years' time, I would be surprised if the parties here would suddenly distance themselves from that principle.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-14.u102	Agreed, but then I hear the Minister clearly say that we are not yet achieving 2% in our period.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-14.u103	Yes, I do. I would like to make sure that, for example, with the pieces of Prinsjesdag all updates are completely wiped together and come to the Upper Chamber. My understanding is that, on top of the more than 3 billion of coalition negotiations, we are still doing a very large sip of extra money, which adds up to a figure of 2% by 2025. If you want to maintain that 2%, then of course that is also very dependent on GDP growth, then you may have to make additional investments afterwards. That's my understanding. But I say to Mr Beucker that this is, I think, put together by the colleagues in the Defence and Finance Department, for example in the documents of Princess Day.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-14.u104	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-14.u105	Mr. Chairman. Mr Koole was right to ask: what does this mean, for example, for the Strategic Compass and the Strategic Concept? I also understood his question more broadly: for cooperation between the Union and NATO. I would like to say that with all the horrors that this war has caused, one of the positive aspects is that cooperation between these two bodies is going much better. You can also see it in a practical sense. There are a lot of EU meetings in which NATO countries join and NATO join Borrell and the EU countries. This will make it even easier, because two core countries of the European Union, which play a very active role there, are now also becoming part of NATO. Is that going to mean that we are going to change that concept or compass immediately? I don't expect that. These are strategic documents in which you look forward for a longer time, but of course they are documents that will have to be brought to your attention once in a while. It's just that the ink's just dry, so I think it's gonna take a while. Mr Van Apeldoorn asked, partly on behalf of the Animal Party, whether NATO would now refrain from interventionist actions. I hope that I have sufficiently argued that in the exchange of views we have just had. As one of the speakers rightly said, perhaps it was Mrs Moonen: NATO is not only a value community, but also a defensive alliance. That is the essence of the matter. That is, of course, also the essence of Sweden's and Finland's desire to join. Mr. Chairman. Then I think I have reached the end of my first term, without too much damage.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-14.u106	Thank you, Minister. Then we come to the second term of office and I give the floor to Mrs Karimi on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-14.u107	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. One question from me has not yet been addressed by the Minister, and that was what Putin's reactions are being taken into account. That's incredibly important, given that he's also unpredictable. He has shown that he can apply rücksichtslos aggression. It is incredibly important that we are prepared for the worst scenario. Can the Minister answer that? Second. Also in connection with the discussion with Mr Van Apeldoorn on the need to prevent some sort of new division, a new Cold War, I would like to highlight the importance of an organisation such as the OSCE. At the moment, under the chairmanship of Poland, almost everything has been shut down, such as: well, there is no business as usual. I agree with that, of course, but the result is that the OSCE actually plays almost no role, even though it is the organisation within which the dialogue, the conversation, should take place. My specific question to the Minister is what steps the Dutch Government is taking to strengthen the OSCE and to use the OSCE as a platform for dialogue. Mr. Chairman. I have already said on behalf of my group that we will vote in favour of this proposal and welcome Sweden and Finland. I would, of course, like to ask the Minister that we also do so ourselves, in order to remain vigilant about what is going to happen in connection with the deal between Turkey and Sweden. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-14.u108	Thank you, Mrs Karimi. I call Mr Van Apeldoorn on behalf of the SP, also on behalf of the Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-14.u109	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll be brief. The Minister says we must learn the lessons of the last Cold War. I agree with him. It's just that we're learning the right lessons. Stalin was a cruel dictator, on a much worse scale than Putin, but after the Red Army moved up to Berlin, the Soviet Union had no plans for further expansion from then on. The Cold War at that time, according to many historians, had been prevented with other efforts on the part of the West. Even more important is that we learn the lessons from immediately after the Cold War, when the Wall had fallen. At that time we had an historic opportunity, I think, not to expand NATO, but to eventually remove it and integrate it into a larger whole of a pan-European security structure. Now it's too late. It is not possible right now, but the question is how we can achieve this in the future. I would ask the Minister once again to keep thinking about this, with reference to the analysis of Hillary Clinton's former top advisor. I think we should continue to have that debate. The Minister says that NATO is not only a value community, but also a defensive alliance. Well, if NATO is a defensive alliance, then my group, and hence the Group of the Party of Animals, will remain in favour of NATO as long as it has not yet been integrated into that larger whole. But the fact is that NATO has not always acted as a defensive alliance in the decades after the Cold War, but has become a part of American intervention policy. If NATO were only a defensive alliance, Serbia would not have been bombed, nor would it have been active in Afghanistan. That is why I hope once again that in future we will focus on the core task of defending the NATO territory. I hope that we will do so together with the strong democratic constitutional states of Finland and Sweden as new Member States, which we welcome once again. I hope that we will focus on the core tasks and therefore refrain from interventionist and militaristic adventures outside the NATO territory. I've run out of time. Finally, I should like briefly to endorse what Mr Karimi said about the concerns about the situation in Turkey and about Turkey's attitude towards Sweden and the Kurds there. We too have not yet resolved our concerns about this. We have discussed this before in the context of the memorandum. So I too hope that the government will continue to monitor this closely. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-14.u110	Thank you, Mr. Van Apeldoorn. I call Mr Koole. He speaks on behalf of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-14.u111	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would also like to welcome the ambassadors of Sweden and Finland to this Chamber. I assume that today we have a majority in favour of the cabinet's proposal. That is why, through the ambassadors, I welcome both countries to NATO. Mr. Chairman. The Minister said at one point that he was satisfied that it was possible to take this decision at the NATO summit, after Turkey had been threatening for a long time that it might not be possible to do so. He's happy that it worked. It has already been said that this decision may have been successful at that summit, but it will be ratified by the Turkish Parliament. And even if that has happened, Turkey can always say: it has been ratified, but I only notify it to the NATO Secretariat on condition, for example, that the two countries are still required to do so. So my question to the Minister is to really be very alert to that within NATO. I also agree with Mrs Karimi and Mr Van Apeldoorn that it is precisely the Kurds in Sweden who should not suffer from this kind of pressure from Turkey. My second point concerns the Minister's varia block. That's where the Strategic Concept stands. I think that Strategic Concept is obviously covered by "varia." I think it's a little more than that. The fact that these two countries are going to join NATO does not mean anything, even for the Strategic Concept, which cannot be drawn up with those two countries. Surely it means quite a lot for northern flank of NATO, for 1,300 kilometers of border? Something's got to change there, right? The Minister says that this will always happen in the long term, but not for the time being. I would say: that should have an effect on the Strategic Compass and the Strategic Concept, right? I look forward to the Minister's answers. But I am already saying that the PvdA will at least vote for ratification. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-14.u112	Thank you, Mr Koole. I call Mr Beuker. He is speaking on behalf of the Nanninga Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-14.u113	Mr President, I shall be very brief. I would like to begin by welcoming both Sweden and Finland. We welcome the accession of these countries. The Nanninga Group does not hope that history will repeat itself. On 18 March 2014 we saw how Crimea was invaded. This Prime Minister went to Wales five months later, on 4 September 2014. He promised when that 2% didn't end up a ball. I hope history doesn't repeat itself. I hope the Minister will actually deliver on what he has promised us. I would be very pleased if that 2% standard of GDP, also sustainable, were to apply. I'm gonna stick with that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-14.u114	Thank you, Mr. Buckle. Mr Van Rooijen has the floor. He speaks on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-14.u115	Mr. Chairman. Two weeks before Russia's invasion of Ukraine, I spoke with the Minister in this Chamber about what lessons we could draw from the past. I think we should keep doing that. I am not going to go into that now, but the Minister remembers what I mean, and I assume the colleagues too. Mr. Chairman. I didn't ask any questions, and I know you won't get any answers. However, I would like to hear a very brief appreciation from the Minister of my speech on support for Sweden's and Finland's accession to NATO.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-14.u116	Thank you, Mr. Van Rooijen. I call Mr Frentrop. He is speaking on behalf of the Ferrtrop Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-14.u117	Mr. Chairman. My group has expressed an opinion on the nature of the Putin government in Russia more than 15 years ago. That was, to be exact, October 7, 2006. Then Anna Politkovskaya was murdered, a courageous journalist who raised abuses in Russia. That date of 7 October was also Mr Putin's birthday. Apparently, there are people in Russia who thought that would be a nice birthday present. This is how we see the governance culture in Russia. The Dutch administrative culture is much better, much better, but not perfect. We have to keep brushing. The view that there could be no conflict of interest here within the administration should be considered. I hope that my questions have contributed to this and will also contribute to the fact that in future the government will look a priori, in advance, at important decision-making whether there might be any conflict of interest. Then there is the accession to NATO of both new countries. We take that decision more than a thousand times as quickly as a decision on the Environment Act. I had hoped that the proposal would be that the countries could be given a commitment that they could eventually become members of NATO, a commitment such as Ukraine that has been given to join the European Union. Then we could have looked at the situation quietly for a year. But unfortunately, such a choice is not ahead. My group will agree to the accession of both countries, but with great concern, because we cannot see the consequences of this accession. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-14.u118	Thank you, Mr. Frentrop. Mrs Huizinga-Heringa has the floor on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-14.u119	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My group has also asked questions to the cabinet about the MoU between Turkey, Sweden and Finland and the possible consequences for the Kurds in Sweden and Finland. There are still many possibilities for Turkey to exert pressure on these countries, as Mr Koole has already mentioned. There are still several steps to be taken before the real accession is completed. My group would be particularly disappointed if the interests of individuals were ground up in the light of the great strategic interests that are at stake. We would be extremely sorry if this were to happen, and therefore we would like to call on the Minister, where this is possible, to remain vigilant and to contribute to the way in which he can or is a large or a small way, I do not know that this will be prevented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-14.u120	Thank you very much, Mrs Huizinga. Then I come to the second term of office of the government. Minister, will you be able to answer directly? That's the case. Then I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-14.u121	Mr President, thank you. And thank you also to the members of your Chamber who have asked a number of questions in the second term. Mrs Karimi actually asked for a broader "what if." Those are, of course, scenarios that we are preparing for, which soldiers are also looking at, and at the same time they are not lending themselves entirely, or perhaps I should say 'not at all', for extensive speculation here and now. But self-speaking, with all the improbability we have seen, you have to think about it, and so we do. Mrs Karimi also drew attention to the role of the OSCE. The importance of this is repeatedly emphasised by the Netherlands, and we will continue to do so. It is true that the OSCE is a consensus organisation, which is largely paralysed by blockades by Russia and Belarus. I'd like to try. I also see it as a broader invitation to see where we can help multilateral fora. I'll talk about that, too. We will discuss it with the Secretary-General of the OSCE. But I'm a little careful what we can really achieve in the short term. I would like to thank Mr Van Apeldoorn very much for what I think ultimately amounts to words of agreement. We are going to have another cup of coffee on how to deal with history exactly, but not all of that lends itself to the tail of this debate. I very much agree with what Mr Koole said. I would also like to say the following in his direction. He said: be really alert to everything that affects human rights and so on. Very much so. I would like to mention one more time, because that misunderstanding is more common in the sense that the way in which I structure the answers is because of the amount of questions asked. The label "other" or "varia" almost without exception leads to great disappointment, because that would affect the interest of the questioner, the importance of the question, or even worse the interest of the group. Nothing could be further from the truth. All the questions are just as sweet to me. All the questioners are equally nice to me. But there was only one person, and that was Mr Koole, who had specifically asked about this issue. So I would immediately like to remove the misunderstanding that I call his question subordinate, quite the contrary. I think he's very right. This also has all kinds of repercussions. It is also the case that NATO planners, for example, take a broader view of the strengthening of the eastern flank, which is already taking this into account. It is more that these guiding documents have had a lead time of, I believe, one and a half years. So we can't get that cleaned up right away. That's how I wanted to name it. I'm still looking for a category other than "varia" or "other" because they both come up with distrust and incomprehension. But I've got a whole summer's time for that. This brings me to Mr Otten, whom I would once again like to thank for his first-term contribution. I would like to say the same to Mr Beukker. I had already made a commitment in the first term. I will also record it with colleagues in the cabinet. Mr Van Rooijen specifically asked for an appreciation of his contribution. Of course, it's burned on my retina. He has said a lot of things that I think we are very much in agreement on, because he and I agree on many of these geopolitical issues. I taste with him what he knows from his own experience and what I know, but only secondhand, through my grandparents, of the enormous importance of stability, peace and security, and of how difficult it is to assess whether you are about to go dramatically wrong the day after tomorrow. Of course, we have seen that again very recently. For who would have expected, yes, the American intelligence service in a manner of speaking 20 February that we would drive into the abyss in this way? A lot of people have been on the side of hope and expectation, and not on the side of "it's gonna happen." That is, of course, one of the lessons of the war. The war offers us all kinds of lessons, but one of the lessons really is that there was virtually no one in the Netherlands, even after October '39, not even in the first quarter of 1940, who expected this country to go head-on into the abyss, with the most terrible consequences. So that means that choosing stability, choosing resilience, choosing security and investing in defence is really a very sensible idea. Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank Mr Frentrop for his support. I understand and understand that he still has concerns, but that he still supports this bill. I appreciate that very much. I would like to say to Mrs Huizinga that in her second term, I thought she had formulated very nicely what was left for the cabinet. I have not always mentioned her name, where I did in the first term towards Mrs Karimi and Mr Koole and Mr Van Apeldoorn, in the context of human rights and Turkey, but I have failed her completely, because she also asked for it in the first period. I would like to thank Mrs Moonen and Mr Arbouw very much for their contributions and their unprecedented shortness in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-14.u122	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Otten.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-14.u123	I had even waived the second deadline, because this decision was already clear to us. But I had only asked one question and I heard the Minister say: 'I thank Mr Otten for his question'. That is of course nice, and Mr Van Apeldoorn was invited for a cup of coffee, but I would like to have a start of an answer to my one question, not a cup of coffee, but here. We see great opportunities here for what I call the 'Northern Alliance' for the moment. I believe you used to have the Northern Alliance in Afghanistan, but I do not want to compare it with a kind of alliance between the Scandinavian countries and the Netherlands, which still have a lot of common interests within the EU and perhaps also within NATO. The Dutch navy also does a lot in the Baltic Sea with Sweden and so on. Isn't it wise, even after the efforts of this minister in the previous post which is somewhat less... Okay, I won't bring that up again. Isn't it wise to make a fresh start with that? This seems to me to be the perfect opportunity. I would like to hear a little more about that from the Minister, apart from thanking him for my question, because that does not bring us much further.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-14.u124	I think I would have thanked Mr Otten for his first-term contribution. But I shouldn't have done that, because that immediately raises a question in the second term. I would also like to invite him to a cup of coffee with Mr Van Apeldoorn. Then I'm going to answer his question. It's a fair question. As far as I am concerned, this must be done under NATO's umbrella. A gremium like that already exists. Anyone who reads about World War II remembers the BEF, the British Expeditionary Force. But you also have the JEF, the Joint Expeditionary Force, in which a group of countries functions. The United Kingdom is one of the tractors, the Scandinavian countries are part of it, the Baltic countries are part of it and the Netherlands is part of it. It is not an alternative and it is not a surrogate, but it is a partnership within NATO of countries which, because of their geography, know more about everything that is happening in the north of the northern hemisphere. Mr Otten's excellent thinking is thus already being put into practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-14.u125	We're not talking to the Secretary of Defense here. We're talking to the Secretary of State. So my question was also a little more broadly focused, for example, on cooperation with these Scandinavian countries within the EU. Look, NATO is one thing, but you also have the EU. Sweden is not a member of the euro area, but Finland is. We may then be able to form some sort of northern breakaway within the EU, rather than turn ourselves over to France or Germany. So here I see huge opportunities for a new, fresh start. As far as we are concerned, the Minister should put some energy into that. I understand that this is not about joining NATO, but this would be a good starting point.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-14.u126	Let me just consider this as a general encouragement and support for cabinet policy. I cannot solve this now, but I would like to thank Mr Otten very much for his suggestion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-14.u127	Thank you, Minister. For the variety: one of your colleagues uses the abbreviation AZBV, the Other Very Important Questions. Perhaps you could ask in the cabinet council who that is.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-14.u128	I'm here to deal with the bill. Does one of the Members wish to vote on the bill? That is not the case. Then the bill is... you do want to vote? I didn't see a hand go up. Does one of the Members wish to vote on the bill? Yes. Fine. Otherwise it would have been accepted. Then I suggest we vote on the bill after dinner break.
