ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-19.u1	The next item is the Act promoting integrity and functioning of decentralised administration. I welcome the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations once again, as do the spokesmen and the people who are following this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-19.u2	I shall be the first to give the floor to Mr Sneller of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-19.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The aim of the legislative proposal we are discussing tonight is to ensure the purity of personal and administrative relations at a decentralised level, i.e. in local and provincial democracy. I must say, it was fascinating to read the consultation responses. In fact, we wholeheartedly support the thrust of this legislative proposal, but the Minister really needs to think further about all the proposals in it that violate our autonomy. Furthermore, as far as I am concerned, it was a first step. This is how the bill is presented. There is a second tranche with a number of other proposals, but sometimes I think that it remains somewhat marginal to actually solve the problems that are being identified. I shall therefore try to make a number of proposals for this. Mr President, first of all, the statement on behaviour. This makes it compulsory for aldermen. Firstly, I have a question of principle to the Minister. In doing so, we give a great deal of power to the executive power which gives the vog, but also to the judiciary which may decide in a professional case about it, about what the controlling authority, the parliament, can do at local level, namely to appoint or not to appoint an alderman. How does the Minister view this in principle? I'm also thinking about the practice. The Minister also knows how that goes local or provincial towards the end of a formation. Aldermen are being petitioned. The college agreement is almost complete or is complete. Then a vog is refused, but: objection, appeal and again the inspection phase. Those deadlines are gonna add up, and the local government wants to move on. Sometimes those formations have taken quite a long time. I am therefore curious to see how the Minister sees this in practice. On the one hand, we are talking about the professional autonomy of the people who have to decide whether or not to get the vog, but on the other hand there is also a risk of arbitrariness in this kind of political contexts. How does the Minister view that? Then the screening profile political ministers. What's in it? Is a conviction for sitting behind the wheel with too much booze on a reason to refuse a vog for an alderman? I think it would be a good idea to communicate very clearly on this issue, so that parties who propose are very insightful in advance of what they can and cannot expect. Finally. Looking ahead, I think that the risk analysis, for which the creation of a legal basis has been envisaged but which is already possible, does much more justice to the forward view of what risks will there be in the future? The Court of Justice of the European Communities held that the Court of Justice of the European Communities had no jurisdiction to rule on the application of Article 85 (1) of the Treaty. Mr. Chairman. A smaller part concerns the king's commissioner. He is given the opportunity to access confidential documents at local level and to attend private council meetings. The Minister writes: we trust the CdK to handle that well. I think that's almost always going to be the case. At the same time, I wonder whether that is not too unbiased in the law. Wouldn't that include something of a qualification that shows when it is? Because it is a serious breach of intergovernmental relations. Of course, the CdK is involved in local government for a reason. Then there's something going on there, too. I understand that, too. He is responsible to the Minister for this, so perhaps the Minister says: I can test that myself; I have enough tools for that. I'd love to hear that. Otherwise I would also like to hear her response to that legal qualification. Mr. Chairman. A number of arrangements on conflicts of interest are being strengthened. For example, it is not just a matter of abstaining from voting in the event of conflicts of interest. It goes back to the whole debate. The Minister wrote: "This will prevent a council member from influencing the outcome of the vote by means of the debate." My question is then: what is the scope of this debate? Is that also the debate in the group? It seems to me that the City Law provision does not formally see that as such. At the same time, this is one of the best ways to influence the outcome of the vote; some people know that. In the past, there have also been situations in which the integrity conflict and the fuss arose. An incompatible relationship is added to the provisions on conflict of interest. This is about an official of a common scheme who also works in the service of a municipality where he is a city council member. That's a bit of a farce, I'll say, but it's good that this is taken care of. I have a bigger question with that. There are also city council members who are members of the Provincial States. There are also city council members who are members of the Provincial States and are MPs. A number of parties have been praised! They have very nice schedules on their website about all incompetences. You can see the Animal Party, but the Christian Union has the same. I'm gonna ask us to work on that, too. They say, for example: city council member and member of the Lower House, undesirable; Provincial State member and member of the Lower House, undesirable. But legally, it's all legal. I do not want to amend that in this legislative proposal, because it is not at all ripe for that. However, I would like to ask the Minister to see whether it might be appropriate for the committee to examine Article 57 of the Constitution, which deals with these inconsistencies, which are there, or with the Public Administration Council, or with the Advisory Committee on the Status of Political Officers set up, or a combination of them. But I think it would be good to have a more balanced opinion on this, so that we can discuss it in greater detail at a later date. Then the legislative proposal lays down rules for the redistribution of seats in the case of list exhaustion; again a fairly marginal change, which is practically useful, I think. At the same time, when it comes to the functioning of the decentralised administration, as this legislative proposal is called, I have two other questions, which I think should go a little further and there is more going on. One is P 7 and P 8 of the Election Act. It regulates how the remaining seats are distributed. And it also says: If you don't get a seat in the seat, but in some cases you get a seat in the seat, you can also get a seat in the seat. I hear increasing, also as the fragmentation in municipal councils and other organs increases: why is that actually so? I can't explain that very well, and I don't think it makes any sense either. I would ask the Minister to respond to that and also to see how we can deal with it. The Minister also announced an evaluation of the turnout in municipal elections, or the lack of such turnout. I would also like to add a question of research. Article 8 of the Municipal Act and also Article 8 of the Province Act determine the number of council members and members of the State in proportion to the number of inhabitants. This means: in a municipality of 600,000 each council member represents about 13,000 inhabitants, and in 19,000 inhabitants about 1,000. And extreme: in Rozendaal 200. And the turnout is a nice downward line: based on the more council members the more residents represent one council member, the lower the turnout was. Now everyone who has made graphs here more often: correlation is not causality; there may well be another explanation. And at the same time I think: Moerwijk I was talking about 21,000 inhabitants last night; a turnout of 27.5%. Suppose, according to what the City Act says, there would be nineteen council members living in Moerwijk as an independent municipality, whom you meet, representing you; would the turnout still be 27.5%? Or would it be a little higher, because people have more opportunity to spend that time outside city hall, which was also one of the goals of dualisation: spend 50% of the time outside city hall? Is the Minister prepared to involve this in the investigation into the turnout, the investigation she has announced? Mr. Chairman. Then I will conclude with two very brief questions about the confidentiality of confidential documents. One. It is said that you are no longer allowed to keep documents confidential for individual council members. So share those confidentially with one councilman. I get that; then it's for everyone, too. At the same time, for example, the presidency is said to be too occasional and too casuistic. In any case, it is beautifully formulated, but the presidency is not too occasional or too casuistic. It is quite common for something else to be discussed there, and that there are other gremia? So how does she deal with that? And how do we deal with it, and what instruments do we give in the hands of municipal councils, municipal councils, when a council member repeatedly commits himself to violating the confidentiality obligation, which has also occurred in some municipalities? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-19.u4	Thank you, Mr. Faster. Then we go to Mr. Strolenberg, VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-19.u5	Thank you. Presumed: for people's confidence in politics and governance, the integrity of the people who have a function in it is very important and needs constant attention. In the base, of course, everyone is responsible for integrity, but it is also necessary to make additional legislation. In order to promote integrity and functioning within local authorities, it is appropriate to amend and add a number of aspects within the law. This is therefore the first step. Of course, there will be a second tranche. That's good and necessary. Therefore, I am not ahead of that second tranche, but confine myself to this bill. I support the Minister's proposals. For example, I think it is right that there should be a vog, an explanation of behaviour, as a requirement for aldermen to be appointed. It is quite remarkable that this has not been introduced much earlier. Teachers, taxi drivers, sports trainers and even the lead in scouting must all have an explanation of behaviour for those functions. For me, it seems logical that this should now become a requirement for sitting aldermen who want to be alderman again. Can the Minister confirm that it also applies to that group? I am in favour of strengthening the information position of the King's Commissioner, also because of the independence of the King's Commissioner. It's a little more remote. If there are integrity issues in a municipality that a mayor cannot solve, it is good if an independent third party, someone who is remote, can deal with this. The question remains, however, what is expected to happen in the event of an integrity issue in a municipality of a mayor when the CdK is to deploy a new power. I would like to ask the Minister to explain what the balance sheet is. What if, for example, there is an integrity issue in a province? Does the Minister have a role in this? As mentioned above, no mandatory risk analysis integrity for candidate aldermen is currently being submitted. The second tranche will have to show that. I don't know exactly when it's going to be treated. I am therefore curious whether the Minister will be able to explain what the state of play is now. Fortunately, many municipalities, provinces and water boards themselves are already working on this kind of scans in a very energetic way. They're also using specialized agencies to do that. They also have self-assessments. Despite that, it is sometimes quite confrontative for aldermen personally. I hear that a lot. But I also hear that aldermen like that there is extra attention to integrity and that those self-assessments are there. That's good to name, too. It gives a very good picture, also for the awareness. It can also be enlightening and avoid misunderstandings. I have one last question. Aldermen and council members are currently obliged to disclose all their ancillary functions and ancillary income, by making this available to the City Hall or by publishing it electronically. I support that. Building on this, I would like to ask the Minister how she looks at the fact that this is being filled in very freely in many municipalities. I would actually like to see a little extra action on that, so that also city council members and aldermen are transparent about how they deal with donations.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-19.u6	Are you at the end of your speech?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-19.u7	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-19.u8	Then there is an interruption by Mr Sneller of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-19.u9	I think the latter is a very good point. And if I heard Mr Strolenberg correctly, and I think I read it that way, it is either to be made available for inspection or to publish electronically. How does Mr Strolenberg feel about transparency? I do not think that this is the right time to 'visit'.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-19.u10	No, especially in the time we're living right now, you'd just expect people not to have to go to a town hall to see exactly what's in the register. I would certainly prefer to publish that digitally. That suits this time of year. So I would also like to put this question to the Minister immediately: isn't that the way we should prescribe?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-19.u11	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Eerdmans of JA21.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-19.u12	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. That's how there's 20 of you and that's how you're standing here debating with the three of you. I was wondering, what if you're here alone? Has that ever happened?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-19.u13	That's a very good question. I just happened to say the same thing. Then the debate goes on, but I don't remember it ever happening. I assume that the Registry will then wonder whether we should have the debate, but with one person it is possible, I just heard.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-19.u14	So you're allowed to file motions, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-19.u15	Well, there's no need for a statement of support anymore. Our Rules of Procedure have been amended. Of course, there must be a quorum at the beginning of the day, and that is the case for the whole day. We shall now proceed to the order of business of the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-19.u16	Absolutely. I do not think it is disinteresting either, because I know how many colleagues in the Chamber come from the local government. So it won't be a disinterest. Maybe it's time or other things. I gotta get started, 'cause I see time flies. Mr President, I can be relatively brief. The law before it pursues a noble goal, namely to promote the integrity of the decentralised administration. The way in which the government wants to do that certainly contains some good points. We also have some doubts about a few points. I'd like to start with the aldermen's vog. That makes sense to us. The question of vog's to representatives of the people is, as far as we are concerned, a matter for the parties, and we must continue to do so. That's different with aldermen. Indeed, an alderman serves the entire municipality and cannot be directly elected or punished by the population. As a result, there is no correction mechanism for many voters. A vog as a designation requirement is therefore a logical choice. Why should someone who works for the municipality as an official have to apply for a vog and not an alderman? In fact, he's his top boss. Then strengthen the role of the king's commissioner. The VNG is very critical of that. In fact, it calls the new role unlimited and unbiased. The government wants to make it possible for the CdK to take up municipal documents on which secrecy rests and to participate in the college meetings and private council and committee meetings. I realise that this only applies to situations where there is a problem, an integrity issue, but it remains, of course, a serious violation of the autonomy of a municipality, especially since the CdK has no democratic legitimacy. I'd like a response from the Minister. On what basis has it now been found that such a strengthening of that position of the CdK is needed? Then there's the conflict of interest. There really is a local tension field. On the one hand, you want people from practice, people who have a familiar role in the city or the municipality. On the other hand, you want them to prevent any appearance of conflict of interest. You can see that in moods. So the bill also calls for these people not to take part in the deliberations. I thought Mr. Sneller's point was correct. Of course, this can often happen outside the debate. Can the Minister clarify the usefulness of this proposal? Then the seats at list exhaustion. We do not think that is a good thing. So it means that if a list is exhausted, that seat can be taken by a completely different party with totally different views, which are opposed to that of the group from which the seat released actually comes. We do not think that is desirable. There really is something that a voter has never wanted. So it's not democratic. Can the Minister reflect on that? Finally, the secrecy. As far as JA21 is concerned, the starting point must be that there is absolutely as little secrecy as possible. My image, our image, is that there is quite a proliferation of secrecy in the city. Do you recognize that? Are there any figures of that? However, it is important that you use consistent criteria to extend confidentiality. That's part of the bill. I think it is a good thing that that is being said. I'm skeptical about enforcement, though. How often does it happen that leaking leads to a sanction? I have the impression that that is happening very minimally. A lot of reports are being made. I have also experienced it myself in the city council: it is said "we are going to get to the bottom of this," but the perpetrator is always in the cemetery. Does it make sense if you can maintain that little on that offense? Could the Minister indicate how many times has it happened in the last five years that people are being prosecuted for leaking secret documents? So far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-19.u17	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. The Minister has indicated that she needs about ten minutes to prepare herself. I shall suspend the sitting until 9:55 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-19.u18	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the Act promoting integrity and functioning of decentralised administration, the first term of office. I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-19.u19	Mr. Chairman. A debate on integrity also gives me cause to reflect on the death of Mr Brenninkmeijer, who, at least for me, comes very unexpectedly. He's our former National Ombudsman. As the Prime Minister said this evening, Mr Brenninkmeijer has always worked for justice and justice. In his career, he has always contributed significantly to the development of moral leadership in the public sector. He frequently pointed out the importance of integrity. From this place, I'd like to offer my condolences to his family for this enormous loss. When we look at integrity in Mr Brenninkmeijer's mind and in the interests of moral leadership, we see that integrity is about doing good, even when no one is looking. So that's about an intrinsic experience. If you look at the development of Ien Dales, who once uttered the words "a little bit integrity doesn't exist," to "do the good, even when no one is watching," which is often said nowadays, then you see that integrity has not become a static concept, so something you just lay down rules about, but that it is also about dialogue, about dilemmas. Integrity is a basic attitude, a matter of mentality, something you can work on and about which you must continue to learn, also to realize where the limits ultimately lie. Because sometimes you're just dealing with grey areas and then it's good to talk about that. So today we are discussing a law that sets boundaries, but ultimately it is also about functioning as an honest and trustworthy government that treats people equally and respectfully. I also see that it is a theme that is frequently discussed not only here, but also in municipal councils, in Provincial States and in general government of water boards. Mr. Chairman. That brings me to this bill of integrity of public administration. I would also like to point out that I will often quote the congregations with the aldermen, but where I say aldermen, I also mean the delegates, the hems on the basis of the Waterschapswet and also the Law public bodies of Bonaire, Sint-Eustatius and Saba. Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna start with an adjoining subject right away. Those are the different questions that have been asked about another bill. That's the bill mandatory risk analysis integrity for candidate aldermen. That is on the basis of a motion by Mr Van der Graaf cum suis. Mr Sneller and Mr Strolenberg asked me about this bill. The Council of State has expressed some fundamental criticism of the content and form of risk analysis. My predecessor, therefore, wrote to the Chamber last year that we will not submit the letter of amendment, but that we are really going to make a new legislative proposal. The opinion of the Council of State also offers us simply good points of departure in order to do better and to get a new independent proposal. It is therefore my intention to take steps in this regard. Then we will also consult with a proposal in the course of the year. That's about the planning. Mr. Chairman. Then I have some cubes. The first is the explanation of behavior. Then I have a block about the king's commissioner. Then I have a block about conflict of interest. I'll finish with a few points in the other block. I hope I'm not failing Mr. Eerdmans, but he's in that block. That was more because he was the third speaker and we also had to work quickly. He also comes back to other places, but a number of topics are there. Mr. Chairman. Mr Sneller asked me what is going on with regard to this statement on behaviour with regard to the relationship between the executive and the judiciary. Isn't the controlling power too limited, because such a vog is eventually requested? That's a deliberate designation requirement. At the time when the statement of conduct is not provided, an alderman cannot be appointed. I would like to say, however, that if you do not choose to make an obligation to make a statement on behaviour, the idea of asking for such an explanation of behaviour will of course be undermined; but I did not hear Mr Sneller say that either. When you have an alderman with a statement about the behavior that meets the appointing requirements, the last word is always up to the city council or the state deputy. That is because there is also a vote on the appointment of aldermen. The city council can therefore, despite the fact that an alderman meets the criteria for appointing him, choose to vote such an alderman away. The city council can say not to get a majority. That's not gonna happen often, but you can never rule out the fact that it's just the way it is. That's how the last word stays with the council. Mr Sneller also asks: such a college agreement is a long process, what if such a statement on behaviour is changed? How do you practically see that? Where an explanation of behavior is requested, you see nowadays that there are relatively few refusals. If a person who is refused a professional case starts, such a case can really take a year in total, with objections and appeals and so on. In practice, you will see, so is my assumption, that a college might still choose to ask someone else to fulfill the aldermanship. I do not expect this process to go so quickly that people say: we are going to wait for it. That's one aspect that comes back here. It is extremely important that the screening profile is well understood. The screening profile for aldermen is also easy to see on Justis' website. There are a number of tough demands, but that is the objective test, because not all facts are relevant to the function of alderman. It could then be smaller traffic offences, for example that someone drove too fast once. If a fact is relevant to the aldermanship, the subjective test takes place. In that test, the circumstances of the specific case may lead to the applicant's interest in issuing the statement of conduct outweighs its refusal in the interest of protecting society. For example, there may be only one crime, which is not so serious and may have been committed more than ten years ago. Ten years is usually the period you're looking at. This is the way of working that applies to many sectors in the Netherlands: an objective test, and when something special comes out a subjective test. For many other sectors, it is also true that this is the way to weigh up. Mr Strolenberg asked if the Minister could confirm that the Vog would also be introduced for incumbent aldermen. No: there is no retroactive effect in the bill. If it is adopted, it will apply to newly appointed aldermen. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the role of the Commissioner.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-19.u20	Before you proceed, there is a question from Mr Sneller, D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-19.u21	The Minister says that the last word will remain with the people's representatives, but that is not the case. That's only true when there's a vog. If there is no vog, the last word will no longer lie with the people's representatives. So I think we have to say that this bill undermines the ability of the parliament to choose the alderman it wants, because we consider something else more important. That's possible, but I think that's what this bill does in the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-19.u22	Well, then I haven't made that clear enough. It is true that the last word is for the council at the moment when the alderman has received a statement on the behaviour. So it is also true that an alderman, as Mr Sneller says, cannot be named when he is not given an explanation of his behaviour. That's really part of the law now. That has to do with what's just been reported. In any case, you want to take a test of indiscretion of behavior before performing the function.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-19.u23	And then the second part. If it is perhaps not yet final that the vog is refused, the Minister says that it is in line with the expectation that someone else will be elected when such a professional case takes place. This can be imagined in a political reality. There aren't many people here, but of course it's something. You're not guilty yet, in quotes. There is no final verdict yet, but because we are now going to lay it down in a law, only that appearance or 'the possibility that' stands in the way of designation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-19.u24	Depends on the college. The forming college can choose to wait with each other to complete that function. That can be said: in this period we will not appoint this alderman. That's a possibility. A second possibility is that they choose to appoint someone in between. In the end, the college will have to make that assessment itself. The College may choose to form and not to fill in an aldermen's function pending the appeal procedure.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-19.u25	When the minister says college, she means coalition, I guess.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-19.u26	Yes, but it may also be that the college already appoints a number of aldermen and leaves one post unfulfilled.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-19.u27	Now I'm confused. Which college is going to appoint aldermen?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-19.u28	It is good that Mr Sneller asks that, but I mean, of course, that the Council can finally choose to appoint certain aldermen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-19.u29	Have I heard correctly that the Minister has indicated that a new alderman must consult a vog, but that it does not need to do so when an alderman is reinstalled.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-19.u30	What I mean is that the aldermen sitting at the time this bill comes into force do not have to apply for an explanation of behaviour. At the time of entry into force of this bill, every new alderman appointed must apply for a statement of conduct after the date of entry into force.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-19.u31	Even if he was an alderman before that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-19.u32	Yes. Then the role of the king's commissioner. The King's Commissioner has, of course, for a very long time now, on the basis of Article 182 of the Province Law, the task of advising the municipality and of intervening in the event of disturbed administrative relations or the integrity of the municipality is at stake. So that task of the Commissioner is simply the same as he has been for many, many years. But with this legislative proposal, we are giving more scope to fulfil that role, because he can learn about secret information and attend closed meetings when it is, in his reasonable opinion, important to do so. In fact, his instrument box is being enlarged to give substance to a role he has been playing for decades. It has also been proven that the Commissioner is fulfilling this role well. My role is so that I can always ask the Commissioner for a statement of office. But it is also the case once again that in his instruction in office he informs me when he will actively intercede and play an active role in disordered relations in the municipality. I will, of course, make sure that this part of the instruction is brought to the attention of the House once again in the context of the entry into force of this legislative proposal. Mr. Chairman. So what can I do? I can issue a notice of office and, in the extreme, I can appoint an acting commissioner, as my predecessor has done in the province of Limburg, when there is something going on in a province. Then there is the amendment of the rules on abstention. Does it also look at the debate and how broad the scope is? It is true that the provision in the Municipal Law only refers to the deliberations in the city council itself. Restrictions on the exercise of a council member's right on the board must be governed by the law itself. The same applies to participation in votes and the sitting. The group is completely outside the scope of the Municipal Act. That also means that council members can take part in the group meeting. But of course groups are free to agree rules on this. Mr. Chairman. Mr Sneller spoke about the accumulation of functions. Traditionally, this has always been seen as something that can. There have, of course, been several revisions of the Municipal Law and the Province Law, and there has been constant consideration that at least it is possible to do so. There have been no serious objections to this. I think this is really something to discuss first with the various associations for council members and members of the State. I have never really discussed this issue with the VNG or the IPO or the Dutch Association for Council Members or State Members. I would like to do that once to hear how they view it. On the basis of these initial insights, too, I may then be able to inform the Chamber whether or not it is important to seek advice.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-19.u33	I understand very well that the Minister does not want to do all kinds of things and that he has to do it carefully. At the same time, there is also my reference to the consultation reactions. Furthermore, the Minister also has an overarching responsibility for the functioning of the whole system. With all due respect, but apart from what all individual interests think, she has a responsibility and we have a responsibility to see if the sum total is ultimately how we would like it to be. For example, we have said about the local government that the lay management should remain and that also has consequences for which combinations you want.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-19.u34	In this sense, of course, this broad responsibility has always been weighed in the Municipal Law. This includes, for example, an article on the incompatibility of council members and the like. Several functions have always been considered in the consideration. Does it bite each other? Are members of the Council and the State still able to perform each other's functions properly? At that time, it was always concluded on the basis of the insights at the time: we do not see any major obstacles. I should also really go back into the legal history to find out if there were any other valid reasons. But I agree with Mr Sneller that it calls for a careful discussion with the council members and the members of the States, because we need to know how they view this. So I have that broad responsibility all the time... My ministers weighed that together with the co-legislator, the Chamber, when we discussed the incompetences and how that should be weighed. In recent years, as far as I know, it has never come up.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-19.u35	I'd love to hear that back after those conversations. A committee is now in the process of looking at Article 57 of the Constitution. That is where the incompatibilitys are regulated for us. Is that committee gonna look at this, too? Because that is of course vice versa whatever should be arranged for us.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-19.u36	This committee really has the task of looking at the situation in the Chamber, also on the basis of the motions that have been tabled. I also hear Mr Sneller mention a number of other advisory bodies, such as the Public Administration Council. I can well imagine that there is such a question, but first I want to have that conversation. Perhaps it is good that I also inform the Chamber about what comes out of that conversation, so that the Chamber itself can steer the follow-up process. Mr. Chairman. Then there is Mr Eerdmans' question. I also understand him when he says that people voted for a whole other party about that list exhaustion and that redistributing those seats. They voted for party X, and then there were two very enthusiastic members of party X, but someone is moving and there is one place free, where that voice suddenly goes to party Y. That's because you're doing that redistribution based on the list exhaustion. That is exactly why we have chosen to make this possible only for municipalities up to 20,000 inhabitants, so for councils with 19 seats. Of that you can say: if there are indeed council seats there, it also does something with the administrative capacity of such a municipality. So I really want to keep it at 20,000 inhabitants and not for all the municipalities up there, precisely for the reason that Mr Eerdmans says. That's why we put it into practice that way. Mr. Chairman. Mr Eerdmans also asks whether this confidentiality arrangement is so practical. He is right that there is, of course, criminal prosecution for this and that in some cases it is also used, with a criminal conviction. I do not have an overview at the moment, I say to Mr Eerdmans, of how often persecution has been used in recent years. However, the fact that we see that it is often a very long process to arrive at a conviction and that that trajectory is not always completed is the reason why we have said in this law: you must also have a proportionate instrument in the middle, whereby you can decide to suspend the council member for three months at the time when it violates confidentiality. In fact, it is meant to make it proportionate also possible to sanction as a council, without having to follow a whole criminal procedure. Mr. Chairman. Then there is Mr Sneller's question about the distribution of seats. In the Lower House elections, a party must always obtain at least the electoral number of votes cast divided by the number of seats available before it is eligible for a seat. In other elections referred to by Mr Sneller, including the municipal elections, this is not the case. I would like to say to Mr Sneller that this possibility was discussed in 1989 a number of years ago, as President-in-Office of the Council, in the general revision of the Election Act, but the legislator finally abandoned it because of the risk that much smaller political groups would no longer have a seat in particular in smaller municipal councils. Mr Sneller asks whether I would like to identify in the evaluation of the municipal elections how many times it has occurred in the last elections that parties have entered the Council without having reached the electorate. At least I want to promise that I will. Then we have another current image. It seems to me that since 1989 it has been a good time to get a current picture of this. Mr. Chairman. A question on confidentiality was also raised by Mr Sneller. What if someone does that repeatedly? I just said that a councilman could be excluded from classified information for three months. Then you will see that the effectiveness of an arrangement will always have to be weighed against the weight of the democratic mandate of the council member concerned. It's really a weighting thing you do. That is why, as a government, as a co-legislator, we have opted for some restraint by making it a possibility and limiting the exclusion of secret documents to three months. A council member can therefore continue to do his job, but he cannot use the classified information available for three months. Mr. Chairman. Then there is Mr Sneller's question about the turnout in the municipal elections and the number of residents representing a council member. As Mr Sneller said, the turnout was 51% historically low. We are in the process of gaining insight into the underlying reasons. You can see that councilmen are just heavily burdened. I am working on measures and opportunities to better support council members in their work. I would also like to return to this subject in the letter on strengthening decentralised governance, which I will come back to at the end of the year, in order to go into more detail. Then there is the question of an occasional or casuist presidency. It is true that the presidency is not occasional or casuistic. This is in practice a common gremium. The law will, of course, soon be able to issue a closed committee meeting to discuss secret documents. Mr. Chairman. Then there is Mr Strolenberg's question. He asked: is it for inspection and/or is it on the website? Every municipality now has a website. We have put it this way, but it should actually be so that the municipality just publishes it right away, so that someone doesn't have to walk to the municipality to see it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-19.u37	Will the Minister take action on this point to move municipalities to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-19.u38	If this bill is passed by this Chamber and by the Supreme Court, I naturally want to communicate widely what is in the bill. By the way, we've been passing through almost all the provinces recently to tell you about the content of this bill. At least these are well-visited meetings. Mr. Chairman. That was my answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-19.u39	It's late, but I have two more questions. One question is about the turnout. My question was: can it also be included in the evaluation of that turnout? The minister replied that at the end of the year she would come forward with a letter about the reinforcements to ensure that council members could go more into the city, into the municipality. But my question was whether it could also be taken as a rise factor.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-19.u40	I'll just have to see if I've got it sharp. I just promised to do this. As far as turnout is concerned, it is about the fact that there is no electoral partner in municipalities. Did he also ask about the residual seat distribution? I have seen that as two separate questions, I say to Mr Sneller.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-19.u41	The question about turnout was mainly about the relationship between the number of residents representing a council member and the turnout. Does that have something to do with each other? When I look at the statistics, I can clearly see that it has something to do with it. Only, that's a correlation. If it is indeed a factor, then we should look at Article 8 Municipality law. We must then, in particular, look for the larger municipalities, where a council member simply represents many more inhabitants, to see if there is anything to be done about it, in particular to promote that turnout and to re-engage citizens' involvement in politics.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-19.u42	In time, it doesn't matter that much. I will have the first insights of the elections around June, but I want to do the deeper investigation underneath it in the autumn. The letter on strengthening the decentralised administration comes at the end of this year. I say to Mr Sneller that I will take it with me in the letter that comes first.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-19.u43	As long as it gets a good look at it, I'm confident it'll land in a nice place. Thank you for that. The second question concerned the issuing of a committee meeting on confidential documents. These are, of course, confidential documents shared with the whole board, because that is the starting point that is now being anchored. So you cannot discuss confidential documents with the presidency alone.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-19.u44	I will come back to that in a moment, because that really is a technical question. I don't know if we have a second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-19.u45	Let me look at the Members to see if there is a need for a second term. That is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-19.u46	It is true that the documents go to the board as a whole. The question is also how often in practice does it occur that a presidency is the only secret document.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-19.u47	Finally, Mr Sneller.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-19.u48	I've never been in a presidency, I have to confess. I'm afraid I've never been able to do that before. That is indeed a fair question. I think it is particularly good to note that this makes it impossible, that we accept its consequences and that we then see how that works.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-19.u49	It is true that the documents go to the Council as a whole and that, as I indicated, in private committee meetings, at least matters can be discussed secretly.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-19.u50	Maybe I didn't hear it right, but I had also asked how the Minister looks at the noncommittal nature of registering gifts at municipal level. We were talking about whether that should be at the town hall or if it was on the website. I was just waiting to see how I got there. I think it was Transparency International who said that research shows that most municipalities do not have a transparent gift register. So that is quite apart from the problem that it may not be found online. How does the Minister view this noncommittalism?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-19.u51	Does Mr Strolenberg mean a gift register or does he mean ancillary functions?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-19.u52	The gifts.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-19.u53	In any case, the secondary functions are subject to a legal obligation. For the gift register: no. It is something that municipalities and provinces do and also publish independently for their directors, but as far as I can see at the moment there is no legal obligation for gift registers.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-19.u54	The question was how does the Minister look at this non-committalism.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-19.u55	My picture is that municipalities do this themselves, and so do provinces, by the way. I know that from an earlier position. I have not received any signals so far that this is a major problem. That's why I haven't considered putting that in a law before.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-19.u56	Thank you. That concludes this debate. I would like to thank the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations for her presence here. I would like to thank the three spokesmen who are here on White Thursday. I would like to thank the people who have probably looked at this debate in large numbers.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-19.u57	No motions have been tabled. So I do not have to say that we are going to vote on the motions, but of course we are going to vote on the bill and we are going to do so on Tuesday. I'm gonna close the meeting with this.
