ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u1	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the development of purchasing power and rising energy prices. I would like to welcome the heads of government: the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment, who will be the first to speak, the Minister for Finance and the Secretary of State for Finance. I would also like to welcome the spokesmen in the Chamber, the people in the public gallery and the people who follow the debate at home or in another way.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u2	I would like to ask Members six questions or agree comments to the directors. I shall be the first to give the floor to the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment to answer the questions put by the Chamber yesterday. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We had a debate here yesterday on purchasing power, while at the same time we saw the images of the war in Ukraine. They are, of course, terrible, for the citizens there and for Ukraine. It is still heartwarming to see how everyone is working for the refugees from Ukraine, here in the Netherlands, but also in the neighbouring countries of Ukraine. I'd like to call that in anyway. I spoke to my colleagues from all these countries in Brussels last week. The neighbouring countries in particular now have a very large stream of refugees to deal with. They're trying very hard to do that. There is broad consensus in Europe, not only in the reception of refugees, but also in the sanction package agreed upon. Of course, we all feel the consequences of this: here in the Netherlands, worldwide and in world trade. We notice the effects of the war in Ukraine and the earlier increase in energy prices on our purchasing power. We are standing here today and standing here yesterday because we want to do something about purchasing power in 2022. It is exceptional that we talk to you in the middle of the year about purchasing power and that we have put together such a large package for purchasing power repair and for dampening. At the same time we come from two difficult corona years. The consequences are also palpable, but up until the war in Ukraine we could say that we actually got out of the corona crisis relatively well economically, with low unemployment and then still optimistic prospects for economic growth. The consequences of the war in Ukraine are once again a shock to our economy. This means that we are once again appealing to the resilience of our entrepreneurs, our society and our citizens. That's what we're talking about today. We all notice the consequences of energy and fuel prices in our wallet. They've risen rapidly in the last few weeks and months. Groceries are also becoming increasingly expensive. Inflation has now risen to more than 5%. That's the highest inflation rate in 40 years. This will reduce purchasing power by 2.7% this year, according to the CPB. You all know the numbers. That means that average household is definitely deteriorating, but it doesn't say anything about all individual households. That, of course, sometimes makes this debate a little more difficult. I often say it: people don't live in a purchasing power picture. It really matters whether you live in a well-insulated house or in a drafty house. It doesn't matter what kind of energy contract you have. But most of all, it matters whether you find a job or lose it, or maybe find another job within the same company that gives you a higher wage. For you, the purchasing power picture will change into that Excelsheet. That's paper, of course, but in real life, your situation changes tremendously. That has at least as much impact, if not very much more. Behind the 2.7% drop is a lot of problems, especially for those on lower incomes who already had problems getting by and who now have a high energy bill. Older people and middle-income people are also finding it increasingly difficult. At the same time, the further development of the crisis is very uncertain. We don't know what's going to happen in Ukraine tomorrow. We don't know what the consequences will be in two months' time. One thing's for sure: we're all gonna notice. We just have a collective loss of prosperity. That's a nice word to say we're all getting a little poorer. This also means that we cannot compensate everyone for all the consequences. We are not, of course, yet with this general observation, because we also know that these economic blows weigh more heavily on those who already have a financial difficulty. And we want the strongest shoulders to bear the burden of that. That also means helping each other to bear those consequences. That is what the crisis demands of us, and that is what we stand for as a cabinet. That is why, because of this exceptional situation, we want to do something this year for purchasing power in 2022, which households will be able to see for themselves this year. The previous cabinet had already decided to reduce the energy tax of 2022, as energy prices were already high last autumn. At that time, we allocated 3.2 billion. This therefore means a tax advantage of around €400 for households with average consumption. The energy companies are now putting that into their instalments.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u4	I'd like to ask the Minister to finish her introduction. Perhaps she can indicate which themes she is going to deal with, as you know, Mr. Alkaya, when your questions may be answered. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u5	In addition to the 3.2 billion, 200 million are earmarked for households with the lowest incomes for an energy surcharge. Energy prices have now risen to exceptional levels. That is why we have decided on that supplementary package. We have used the following principles in this regard: yesterday you asked me about the main points of the report. Then we go one-by-one on all specific questions and measures. I will do part of it, part of it will be done by my colleagues. Does Mr Alkaya agree that I should first outline the main points?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u6	The Minister may first conclude her introduction.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u7	Let me outline the main lines first. These are the following principles. 1. The measures must be quick and feasible. They must be able to come to their senses this year. We just need to be able to do that. So a very smart measure that has an effect in 2023 or in 2024 is not in this package. That is for the discussion, if necessary, with the Spring Note or at any other time. 2. The measures should support households with the lowest incomes. That's the group that's most vulnerable to that sudden rise. But low incomes and lower middle incomes can also be in trouble. You yourself mentioned the examples of shiftwork and the people who really depend on their car to get to work. 3. The problems need to be addressed at the source. It should therefore lead directly to a lower energy bill or a lower bill at the pump. This applies to 2022. Then, of course, we have the measure on sustainability, with which we address consumption in the longer term. Of course, there is also the fact that if you have a long-term energy contract, for example, you have a lower energy bill. Then you will benefit a little less from that VAT reduction than in case you would have a very high energy bill. With these criteria in mind, we have come to the package which can enter into force quickly, which we support the lowest incomes, and which we share with the source of the problem, so that, for example, middle incomes with high energy costs can also benefit from it. So that's 2.8 billion. That comes on top of the 3.2 billion and the 0.2 billion last year. Then we'll be looking at over 6 billion. We increase the energy surcharge through the municipality for the lowest incomes from €200 to €800. We're going to help with energy-saving measures to make the home more sustainable. That's the 150 million we're bringing forward. As of 1 April, there will be a nine-month reduction in fuel taxes. And as of 1 July there will be the reduction of VAT on energy. All in all, this saves €800 for low incomes, about €135 for normal commuters with 30 kilometres of commuting and about €140 for households with average consumption. This comes on top of last year's €400 with average consumption. So that costs 6.2 billion, all in all. This is not a long-term solution. It really is a solution for 2022. We will not always be able to continue to compensate for high prices for everyone. So we also need to use less together as quickly as possible. We can't take away all the pain from everyone with this package either. At the same time, 6.2 billion is a huge package. We need to realize that too. It is a package to mitigate the acute consequences, especially for those households that are already struggling and are particularly affected by energy prices.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u8	Before you really start answering the questions, there is an interruption about the introduction. First, Mr Alkaya of the SP and then Mr Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u9	The Minister made a number of statements in her introduction, which I do not think are based at all on reality. They sound good, but when you say that, they must also be based on the measures taken by the Cabinet. For she says two things: we are all going to notice the loss of collective prosperity and the strongest shoulders must bear the heaviest burdens. What heavy burdens are those strongest shoulders going to carry? These measures are not in the package at all, are they? It's hollow phrases when you put it that way, isn't it? My contribution to the debate was precisely that this is not the case at all. If the Minister makes that kind of statement, what measures are these statements based on?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u10	First of all, everyone's gonna notice and notice. You have to live in a very well insulated house, not have to do groceries and never have to refuel to not notice it. I don't think there's a lot of people who are really gonna be affected by this. That's one. Two. The measures we are taking now are particularly beneficial to low incomes and to people who suffer greatly from them. This means that it is less beneficial to higher incomes, because they do not get the €800. This way you ensure that the pain is distributed as much as possible and the consequences for the lowest incomes are mitigated as much as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u11	Now, of course, the Minister nuances her statements because she says that everyone gets a concession, but the higher incomes are relatively less. But that is contradicted by reality, namely that a large part of the money does not end up with the people who need it most. But the Minister also said something else in her introduction. She said, "The strongest shoulders are gonna carry the heaviest loads." Does the Minister share my view that this is a misguided statement and that they cannot face any heavier burdens at all? In fact, they can also look forward to a concession, even though they don't need it at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u12	Let us first talk about where the measures are going to be. When we talk about Investico's research published in Trouw, that is a special study, because it ignores the €800 and ignores last year's package of 3.2 billion. This means that you do not take a number of measures that are intended for those lower incomes. Nor does the investigation include the increase in petrol prices and food. This means that the investigation focuses on two of the three measures and does not include the increase in food prices. If you're basing yourself on that investigation, I simply disagree with you. Because if you look where it hits, that's a huge group: 800,000 to 900,000 households are entitled to that €800. That's one in seven to eight households in the Netherlands. They benefit precisely from that measure of the €800.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u13	I would like to ask the Minister what subjects her colleagues are going to deal with, so that Members of Parliament know when they may be able to ask their questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u14	I shall now turn to the measures that we have considered and outline on the basis of criteria why we have not chosen to do so. I shall then go into the question of purchasing power. Then we have a whole set of answers that we have divided: about the Tax Administration with my colleague Van Rij, macroeconomic and sustainability with my colleague Kaag and the municipal scheme with me. That's kind of the plan of our story.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u15	Finally, a genuine question to the Minister. Does she really think that the strongest shoulders carry the heaviest burdens? Does she think that's sincere?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u16	I sincerely believe that we are ensuring that the lowest incomes are the most compensated by this package. I really do, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u17	Thank you. I give the floor to Mr Van Raan of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u18	Certainly, Mr. Chairman. Good morning. The Minister refers to three criteria: rapid implementation, lowest incomes and source approach. But actually, you see that in the end only the first one applies. Although the lowest income is supported for two months by €800, a seventh income tax, that is really a point and we really have to recognise it; that is fine, but at the same time I do not think it can sustain that the strongest shoulders bear the heaviest burdens. She claims she is. I would like to have the assurance from her that she will prove that; that is not necessary now or in the second period. There is so much doubt about that. We therefore know that we are talking about the facts.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u19	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u20	And I also wonder if we are going to hear that in the second block, or the measures that have not been taken...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u21	The Minister will come back to that in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u22	Then I'll keep my question for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u23	In my view, I have just explained why, in our view, Investico's research is not complete and thus ignores what we did mean by that €800 and that €3.2 billion last year for the lowest incomes. That sum is already huge and benefits the lowest incomes. That is how I have just answered the question, I think. The moment you do more for the low incomes than for the high incomes, you automatically come out that you are helping them more at the moment to mitigate the consequences.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u24	No one denies that this €800 is indeed a good compensation for the lowest incomes. But saying that it does not agree with an investigation that shows that the strongest shoulders do not bear the heaviest burdens is not the same as informing the Court of Justice about this. It can be done by means of a letter which clearly shows that we are all wrong if we think that the strongest shoulders do not bear the heaviest burdens. Will the Minister make this commitment?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u25	When I was talking about this package to ensure that we reduce the impact of these high energy prices on the lowest incomes, you are saying that the lowest incomes take precedence over the highest incomes in the reduction and that the highest incomes bear more of the problem than the lowest incomes, I have a little bit of the impression that you are now pulling that broadly. We were talking about the package here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u26	Mr Tony van Dijck, PVV, and then Mr Stoffer, SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u27	This is the Minister of Social Affairs. There are 2 million households with payment problems in the Netherlands. The lowest incomes are now served, but in every sense you, and also the Minister of Finance, use the middle incomes. You're not doing anything for middle income. Why not?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u28	I'd like to speak through the chairman, Mr. Van Dijck.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u29	We will come to the individual measures in a moment. The €800 in this package is mainly for low incomes, but the reduction in VAT, the reduction in excise duties and the package of 3.2 billion last year obviously have an impact on middle incomes. When someone has to go up and down to work, so he has a job and has a lower income or a middle income, this person benefits from the reduction of excise duties and from the reduction of VAT on energy. That adds up to €400 of last year's package, €140 with average energy consumption and €135 with average commuters; I'm just saying that out of my head. That's a little bit of a $700. The working Dutch therefore benefit from this. So we are doing something for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u30	Surely the Minister agrees with me that the €20 that is now being given to middle incomes is far too little? We can all read in the paper that the energy bill goes up by €150 a month. You'll only have a small pension, you'll only have AOW or you'll only be a little self-employed. Then you're just short. You were already short, but now you're in debt trouble. This minister is about to have a huge influx of people with debt restructuring, poverty and so on. Why don't you make the group a little bigger, up to and including the mode, which compensates for the increased energy bill for that group? You should. You shouldn't just compensate for the low income. The problems are gonna pile up hugely.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u31	If we wanted to fully compensate everyone up to and including the Modal, we would need a huge budget for that. We don't have cover for that. For example, if we let it go into the balance, it would mean that we actually borrow from our children. We don't want to. That is why we look very closely at what we do want, and what we can do this year. Because this discussion is about this year. In addition, we naturally have a reduction in the burden for the middle incomes in the coalition agreement. That brings us to 2023 and we're actually ahead of it. This reduction is particularly important for workers. And we have the increase in minimum wage. These are two measures that will really benefit the group with an income between the minimum wage and the modality. Of course, that's why we're doing it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u32	I also referred yesterday to Investico's investigation. It is good that the Minister puts that in perspective. With me, perhaps also following on from what Mr Van Dijck said, this €800 will end up mainly among the low-income people. That's good. However, this reduction in VAT is mainly achieved by those on high incomes. I think we can conclude that from Investico's investigation. A third of them come from high incomes. My question is: does the Minister see any chance of turning that around after all? Let me add that it is easier to be on this side than on the Minister's side. It's easier to ask than to do it. But does the Minister see the possibility of letting the money that is now going to end up with the people on high incomes end up with the people with what we call the "low middle incomes" by turning on something else? 'Cause that's where people really get hit. They are at the centre of the problem that we Members of Parliament are being approached about. Does the Minister see any possibility of turning that button? If she can, she's got the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u33	Mr Stoffer points out that it is indeed difficult to specifically target this VAT reduction on one group. That is why we have also opted for a reduction in VAT on energy, not a general reduction in VAT. I'll come up with a few reasons why we haven't chosen a few things. A general VAT reduction would affect an even wider group. The advantage of a VAT reduction on energy is that it benefits those who have a high energy bill, so the people in the non-isolated homes. Those people benefit more from this than the people who live in a well-insulated home. By the way, we can find all kinds of things from the point of view of sustainability, but that is what we can do for this group this year. If you want a more targeted policy, you're really talking about income policy, and so tax rates for next year. Doing something with that doesn't work for this year. I am sure my colleague, Mr Van Rij, will also comment on this. If we want to get things done right now, we can't play a lot of buttons right now. The discussion about 2023 and beyond is, of course, to be held at the appropriate time when we are talking about that period. But now I am also getting ahead of Mrs Van Dijk's question. She asked: what are you going to do to identify the vulnerable groups for the deadlines from 2023? Which groups have it heavier, which groups have it less difficult? And what can we possibly do for certain groups? But then we're talking 2023, and today we're talking 2022. What can we do with the instruments we have in 2022?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u34	Thank you. First of all, Mr Klaver has the floor, and then Mrs Van der Plas.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u35	I think it's important to be clear about the facts. The reduction of VAT and the reduction of excise duties are generic measures, which benefit everyone. But the people with the highest incomes benefit most from it. Does the Minister agree with that statement?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u36	This, of course, is primarily due to the individual situation. But we do know that the part of the income that people with lower incomes spend on energy is relatively higher than that part of people with higher incomes. So that way it has a greater impact on the people on lower incomes. That's also what we've been considering. Then there is a kind of side effect that you also compensate for the high incomes, but that is the result of the fact that we want to do this year. That's what we can do if we want it this year. And we're also compensating for the middle incomes, and we'd like to. But the relative share of income spent on energy is particularly high for people living in a non-isolated home. And that stock is rising very fast. So we want to do something about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u37	And yet... The Minister talks about averages all the time. There may be all kinds of differences between individuals. However, a reduction in VAT or a reduction in excise duties have a major impact on the people on high incomes. They take great advantage of that. That is why it is, in a sense, a debilitating measure. You can still choose; that is another discussion. But we have to stick to the facts. I think these are the facts. It's nice if the Minister admits that, too. Then the sequel: there are other choices that could have been made. That's what I asked for yesterday. I wonder if the Minister can comment on why those choices were not made.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u38	I think the Minister's gonna come up with that later.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u39	Yes, Mr. Chairman. "Other choices" is exactly the next block, so we'll get to that in a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u40	Then I'll wait for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u41	Before you start, there is also an interruption by Mrs van der Plas of the BBB Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u42	I would like to answer Mr Klaver's first question, because I think that is important. The overall package is aimed at a combination of lowest incomes, source and feasibility. That includes the €800. It is true that VAT and excise measures are unfocused in terms of income groups, but they are focused on consumption.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u43	Clear. We need to separate the facts from each other. Why do I find this one so problematic? As far as I am concerned, it is not enough for the lowest incomes. Mr Stoffer said that very well, and the SGP and GroenLinks really do not agree with each other very often, but they do. There's really a serious step being taken. For the higher incomes it is not necessary, but it is really nice what they get. Especially for those middle groups that are incredibly vulnerable, nothing is being done with this package. I dare say so. What's done is so little, you don't help them with it. We really need to find a solution for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u44	In my view, I have just made the calculation that the income that does not get the €800 will get around €700 in the sum of last year's package of excise duties and VAT. That's not nothing.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u45	We are talking about price increases of more than €2,000 on an average account. I'm not even talking about the outliers. €2,000. I understand that as a cabinet you say: we can't muffle everything. That's not what I'm here for. The highest incomes in the Netherlands are unlucky. We're all gonna feel this crisis, but we're talking about the people up to about fashion. Those are people who, for example, work in cleaning, home care, care or those who are single parents. They still have to pay €1,400 more to the energy bill alone. They can't. That's the big problem. All those people in the Netherlands who still have space, who could still make savings, who are very easy to live by, must of course turn in. It's no different. It's not fun, but it's the truth. But this group can't. So I find it a little easy and bear witness to the fact that the cabinet doesn't know what's going on in that society, when you say: yes, but we're meeting them, aren't we? €700, while for an average family there is still an account of over €1,400... This is where so incredibly many people get into trouble. That is why you find almost the entire opposition to you here, because it says: this cannot be done. So stop saying they're gonna get $700. It's all true, but it's not nearly enough to help the people who are really vulnerable.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u46	I come back to the question raised yesterday as to whether the group should be extended. I think we should then have this discussion about what is possible or not and what the figures are. I would like to repeat that I still think that we are doing quite a lot with a package of 6 billion, but I also see the problem that this Chamber raised in detail yesterday, namely what is going on with the group with 120% of the social minimum. That is indeed a problem. We can see that too, but that problem is not one-two-three soluble. I'll get back to you on that. I would suggest that I first go into the measures that we have not chosen, because then you will also know why we have or have not considered a number of things.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u47	I am looking at Mrs Van der Plas, because it is perhaps a bit of a waste of the interruptions, because the Minister is really going to answer a number of questions explicitly. You're talking about your own interruptions, but that's what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u48	I referred to the Minister's remark that it is a huge sum if we all have to do so. I don't understand that short-term thinking. Of course it's a huge amount now, but I'm looking at the long-term and the worries, the stress and the sleepless nights that people have and at their fear of being cut off from energy. That's just killing people's health. A lot of people are gonna get overwhelmed by this, and they're gonna burn out. They all need care again. That's gonna cost money, too. I would actually like to ask the Minister why this is not taken into account, because if you look further, it may cost us a lot more than if we spend a large amount now and simply compensate those people. In English there is a beautiful proverb: penny wise, pound foolish. In the Netherlands we call that: putting the horse behind the cart.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u49	I agree with Mrs Van der Plas that debts and concerns about your financial situation do a lot to people. This leads to health problems. This also applies the other way around: you know that people with poor health often have less income potential. We also know about the situation that you're in a difficult situation and you can't get out of it, so you can come down in a vicious circle. That is why we also have all kinds of debt relief and poverty reduction programmes, which my colleague Schouten is working on. At the same time, of course, we must also realise that we must also find cover for what we get here. Of course, we can only spend it once. This is 2022. I'll come up with what we want to do before 2023. On the contrary, we want to map out those vulnerable groups to see which groups are the most difficult, which in these purchasing power figures I find that very difficult to say, because no one lives in purchasing power images worst come out, and see if we can do what we can and, if so, what. We're really gonna do that, and we're gonna do that very seriously.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u50	Unfortunately, that is not an answer to the question. My question is: are we also looking at the long-term effects of this? It could be about health. Or people might lose their jobs, get out of work and then need benefits. So you can come up with a lot of examples of the effects, like people having sleepless nights, that they can't pay their bills. Is that included in the expenditure of this amount? In the short term we throw so much money on the shelf. We're gonna fix it now. That very large group is not included, as I hear it now. What effect does this have in the longer term? How much is that going to cost society in the end? And aren't we actually putting the horse behind the cart? I'd like that bill to come in. We calculate everything in the Netherlands except this, I have the idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u51	In my view, all these reasons, which Mrs van der Plas mentions, have been precisely the reason why this cabinet has appointed a Minister for Poverty Policy, my colleague Schouten. That is because we are fully aware of the consequences of poverty and the consequences of stress over your income. That is why there is a Minister for Poverty Policy. It's in the process of incorporating all those things you mention into its policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u52	Mrs van der Plas' question was whether all this is being taken into account, so the consequences of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u53	No. This is really a short-term package for 2022, in which we immediately mitigate the impact of the energy price. That is therefore a direct income policy. So that is not a long-term view of what the consequences are for these people. But that is in Mr Schouten's longer-term poverty policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u54	The Minister continues her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u55	Mr. Chairman. A number of measures were mentioned yesterday, which we also considered, but which we did not choose in the end. First of all, thank you for the many suggestions for alternative measures, because that also keeps us sharp. I really want to express my appreciation for this, because we have of course done so at great speed.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u56	Please, Mr. Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u57	I couldn't hear it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u58	What you yelled at there isn't funny. Now let's just calm down. The Minister has the floor. The Minister can also hear it all, and that is disturbing.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u59	Well, I couldn't hear it. Maybe that's even harder.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u60	I could even understand it here, so...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u61	Then it's me. In general, I would like to say a few words about the reasons why we have not taken some measures. Then we will come back specifically to some of these measures in response, together with my colleagues. The first is that with some measures it simply takes too long before we can introduce them. This applies to the reduction in income tax, the tax reductions. The same applies to the adjustment of energy tax rates. A lot of these rates are fixed for 2022. You can change it by January 1, 2023. This also applies to measures for which we need a major legislative change, such as the minimum wage increase. The second is that we found some measures too unfocused. This applies, for example, to the general VAT reduction. But it also applies to the generic freezing or lowering of rents. Not all tenants have a high energy bill, many of them have that as well as housing corporations are already facing major challenges. So we choose the arrangements that really match the source of the problem, namely energy consumption. That is why we are opting for the reduction of excise duty and the reduction of VAT on energy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u62	It all seems very clear. There are three criteria: it has to be able to do so quickly, which is logical, it has to be directed and it has to be at the source. But if you listen further, it is strange that, for example, the cabinet has not taken any measures with regard to rents. After all, we know that tenants, certainly tenants of a corporation house or people in the regulated sector who receive a rent allowance, have on average lower incomes and cannot do anything about the isolation of their homes. I find such a measure much more logical than, for example, a VAT measure, because if you live in a villa, you have a lot more heating costs than if you live in a small apartment. So why didn't they look at the rents?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u63	We come one by one to the specific measures. This was an example; we think that this is too unfocused. But here's the main thing. The cost of someone living in a non-isolated rental house, you can try to dampen through the rent or through the energy bill. We have opted for the energy bill, because there are also people who live in a buying house and have a high energy bill, because there are also people who live in a well-insulated rental house or who have a fixed energy contract. We have really weighed this up and we think that it is better to intervene on energy than on rents. That has been our consideration.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u64	So I don't share that with the cabinet. I think it is right that the cabinet should also consider energy prices. The energy tax earlier this year and the VAT: I can imagine anything. But tenants are relatively concerned with lower incomes and middle incomes; they cannot do anything about isolation. Mr. Klaver charged it for: you can offer €700 compensation, but if the costs go up by €2,000, then you'll hang at the highest bar there is. I don't understand why the Cabinet hasn't taken more measures for the tenants too, because then you focus on the group that is most vulnerable.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u65	In the end, we have made an assessment: we think that we can better support these people with a reduction in VAT on energy than in a different way. We believe that this is the best way to land this package: this group of people and, in broad terms, take advantage of the source. We have made this assessment in this way. I also understand your assessment, but we believe that this is a more comparatively focused/unfocused approach than intervention on the rent.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u66	The Minister doesn't really convince me with this answer. I agree that there should also be measures for buyers. 'Cause if you don't, you're not gonna need any rent measures. But if you look at where the big problems are, you can see that they occur in people who live in a drafty house, who live in a rental house, who have to cough up €600, €700 in the month in rent and see the energy bill go from €150 to €300 in the month. The VAT reduction does not help them enough. Those people are in the cold. They're wearing thick sweaters. I don't understand why the cabinet can take a measure that can be done through the rent surcharge, freezing the rents, lowering the rents of drafty rentals; I have all mentioned options that do not take.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u67	I therefore believe that Mr Nijboer is calling for the package to be increased, and for it to be extended. That is a different argument to the question of which measure you have chosen. We have a package of 2.8 billion and this is the measure we have chosen. What you're actually saying is "freeze on top of the rent," but we're talking about a bigger package. That's another consideration.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u68	My question to the Minister concerns the following. The Minister indicated... I reacted a little harshly; I shouldn't have. The minister says it keeps us sharp. What does that tell you? What is it now that shows that this keeps the cabinet sharp?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u69	That we are debating with you today, alone. I think that the situation at the moment is so exceptional that we have actually looked at exceptional measures. We have weighed several of your ideas, and in the end we have come out this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u70	The fact that the Minister is standing here is not in itself an argument that supports serious consideration of this issue or that it keeps the cabinet sharp. In my view, that is simply his constitutional task if the Chamber wants to exercise control over what the cabinet does. So I just see that as a task. My question is very simple. A number of suggestions are made here. Did the Minister pick up these suggestions in advance from the parties? Because if suggestions are picked up in advance and calculated on the basis of criteria, then I could say that I am being taken seriously. I hear Mr Nijboer say: yes, but I think it is much more focused to look at the freezing of the rents, to look at the rent surcharge. And then the Minister's answer is: we do not think so. Is that taking it seriously? Is that keeping it sharp?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u71	I think that's two different things. And I think you also know me as someone who takes the debate with the Chamber seriously. That's what I wanted to say. What I meant to say was that, in order to make a package for this year, we naturally had to make choices and make these choices. The debate with the Chamber, talking about this, is of course also a way of exchanging it. And that's how we keep each other sharp. But I am far from taking the debate with your Chamber seriously. And you know that, because we have already had more of a debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u72	I have never said that the Minister does not take the debate with the Chamber seriously. I responded to what this minister said: thank you for the suggestions, which keeps us sharp. And I thought, "What's that all about?" When I ask, the Minister makes the first argument: the fact that I am already standing here and taking up the debate with you. That is what I am saying: I think that this is just her job; if the Chamber asks for it, it should be. But I really want to take it a step further. Because every time an argument is put forward with a proposal, we come to the point where the Minister actually says: yes, but we do not think so. And I think, if you want to seriously debate such proposals with each other, you will have to go a step further and show where the solution of the cabinet is better and more effective and effective than the opposition's proposal. I think that was the hand-off. I ask the Minister to take this seriously too, and not to do so with: we think this is a better measure.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u73	I think I have just tried to explain why we have chosen to reduce VAT on energy versus freeze rents, so what our arguments have been for this. And I have also been quite clear that it may be that you or another Member of Parliament are making a different assessment, given that we have exchanged these arguments. But that does not mean that, if you say anything, I always agree with it, but that we are having the discussion and discussion about it. And that's what we're doing today, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u74	Sure. I'm moving on to another point, the point I really wanted to make. But I really wanted to respond to this, because this again sounds like there is a huge outstretched hand here, as if proposals have been raised, as if there has been some thought in advance and consultation with the opposition, at least not with me, and as if that were taken very seriously. I just don't think that's true. I think we had the idea of the package of measures that lies ahead in the talks at the Start note: there will be nothing, there will be nothing; spring note, there will be a package in one stroke. So there was first a wall erected by the cabinet, of: you can ask for anything, but you get nothing; wait until the spring note. Suddenly there's a package. I haven't been able to talk about that, and a lot of colleagues haven't. And then say "we take you so seriously" and "you keep us sharp"... I think that's a little euphemistic: it sounds fun, but in practice it just won't happen. Mr. Chairman. Then let's have my interruption. I understand the Minister when she says I'm limited in what I can do. And I understand that, because that is, in a sense, the redistribution of poverty. So what I think you should look at is the system that we've been in for 20 years, and which we need to look at for the longer term. This is, in fact, an increase in the burden on citizens who have to pay 40 cents in national insurance premiums for every euro they earn, and then pay taxes and excise duties on everything they buy. Then they still have rents that can't be paid. That means, if they're a little disappointed, there's a lot of trouble for a lot of people. Isn't that the problem?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u75	Mr Azarkan has a clear point there. What I have just said, though, is that we are talking more about 2023, and beyond what we are now talking about, is that we really want to take a good look at what is the vulnerability of these different groups. Mrs Van Dijk asked for this yesterday. So that is a real commitment: we are really going to look at these different groups in this debate about 2023 and its purchasing power. What happens to that group that's just above minimum wage? What happens to people who are just above fashion? Or with one and a half modes, which is about the Dutch model, one and a half incomes? This is to make sure that we know very well how that sum of all kinds of supplements that you don't get anymore when you get into a certain income. So that analysis. I share with you that there is real pain here and there, but we are preparing that analysis very seriously for this spring decision-making. Let me just get back to the point you mentioned. The war in Ukraine has been going on for three or four weeks. I believe that the debate on the Start note, to which you referred, was on the eve of the raid in Ukraine. At that time, of course, we were still planning to do it in the spring paper. The war in Ukraine has accelerated the increase in energy prices. That is why we have said: we must do something now. So it's been a real act of speed for us, too. As I said at the beginning, it is a truly exceptional situation that we are doing something for this year. So that's what we put together in speed. The Start Note and the Spring Note contain the long-term vision, where we are actually going to do and prepare all these more extensive analyses. We also take seriously the suggestions made by Mr Van Dijck. He's just got a point. He says: for certain families... The tricky thing about these purchasing power cards is that no one is exactly one purchasing power picture, but let's stick to the purchasing power tags. Some purchasing power cards will come out better than others. Then we need to talk about what that means. I would like to add that, given the war in Ukraine, we will not be able to compensate for everything. You'll understand that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u76	You have two more questions, Mr. Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u77	I like to use them. I'll save another one for one of the other two regiments. The Minister said at the beginning: it is of course best to improve purchasing power if you change jobs. The tricky thing is that unemployment is at an historically low low point. So the Minister should have said: how can it be that there are so many people working and that, in the event of a slight setback, workers are also in trouble? That's a systematic problem, isn't it? Finally, I would like to say something that I also said in the debate on the Start note. Choices have been made not to increase the burden on businesses, which have been reduced over the past 20 years. The tax burden on businesses has gone from 22.5% to 17%, while the tax burden on citizens has been increased each time. So if you have to divide in there, it's an unfair distribution. And so you have to ask yourself if you shouldn't divide it differently. D66 did. He had a package of 24 billion in mind. That's what the CDA did. Even your party, the VVD, had that proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u78	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u79	Sorry, I meant the CDA. The practice is that the cabinet has decided not to collect any of that from companies. Then you're gonna get in trouble now, because...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u80	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u81	...you can't afford it. So that's a system choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u82	All these discussions are really going to come back to the debate on the Spring Note. Then we're going to look at this beyond 2022. That was the answer to your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u83	It was a long interruption, but a short answer; that is allowed.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u84	We're just getting started, but I think it's a tiring debate. That is because we in the Chamber in January said that you must do something before 2022, because the prices are already ten times higher and they are only going to increase further. It doesn't just have to do with the war in Ukraine. There are many more aspects that cause prices to rise. This has been warned in the Chamber and the cabinet has not done so. We also said in the declaration of government: 'There is a big problem. A very large group of people in the Netherlands have no reserves and no buffers. Wages have been left behind for years, too. There's a big problem there. Fix that." That's not done. So you shouldn't come up with the fact that the war in Ukraine was the great turning point. The problems were already there. Frankly, I don't believe anything of the Minister's argument, for example when it comes to tenants. It may be a political choice not to do so, but that it would be less targeted than a VAT reduction is, of course, pure bullshit. That is why I have a very specific question. I would like to see all the decision notes that are there, all the memos that have been written, whether it is about the rent, the care allowance, the rent allowance or the minimum wage increased more in June, just come to the Chamber, because I want to know all the details of that. I want to know whether something can or cannot be done, because then it is a political choice of this cabinet not to look very closely at the rents, but generally to look at VAT. The question is whether they can come to us as soon as possible, because I do not believe that the Minister's argument has just given a blow.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u85	I do not know whether this can be the debate, but if you want notes, you will of course receive notes. I think it's obvious. I don't know what speed that can take. I'll take a look around the room.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u86	I think this will then be a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u87	Yes, I have a point of order. I attach great importance to the facts in order to be able to conduct this debate properly. If I'm just wrong and I can't do something in 2022, I'm the first to admit I'm wrong. But that's what we need that information for. As far as I am concerned, we do not need to suspend and we simply proceed with the debate. I just want to get an indication of when we can get those notes. I think it's just pretty simple and they can be sent. Otherwise, I have doubts about the value of the debate that we can now have. But I think they can just be sent.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u88	You've made a request for information. It is good if the Minister lets us know during the debate whether it will succeed or at another time.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u89	I assume the official support is listening, so we can get an answer to that in ten minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u90	However, I would ask you to give us some room in this debate for these various measures to be brought to an end. I was still on the basis of the reasons why we made our decisions. We are about to go into more detail about all these individual measures. I just mentioned it as an example. So I would like to ask for some space so that my colleagues and I can discuss the various measures more and more with you and explain why we have or have not taken certain decisions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u91	I'll take a look at the colleagues. The Minister was not yet ready in her speech. It would now like to give a more detailed explanation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u92	I'm still at the introduction.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u93	There have already been a lot of interruptions. Once again, the Chamber is talking about its own interruptions, but the Minister wants to discuss the other measures in detail.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u94	In addition to Mr Klaver's request for information, I would also like to receive the documents underlying the decision on the minimum wage. The minister said it couldn't be done quickly, because it would require a legislative change. A reduction in VAT also requires a change in law. I'd really like that information before the start of the second term of office. Then we can take that into account in the motions and the statements made in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u95	That is an additional request for information. The Minister continues her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u96	Finally, why have we considered a number of measures less desirable? We are talking, for example, about the increase in fees, because we have wide concerns about the implementation of surcharges and therefore did not want to change anything in the current year. I would like to comment on a number of specific measures, first of all the purchasing power of 2023 and beyond. I've already said a few things about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u97	I have just asked if the Minister could go a little further in her speech. Mr Van Weyenberg, D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u98	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have a question about something that has just been said, so I think this is the right time. The Minister briefly referred to the increase in the minimum wage, on which Mr Nijboer just asked an informative question. I would therefore like to hear it now, and it will be possible to do so later in this debate, which is the timetable for such a legislative amendment. I would also like to see this in order to be able to look at a number of measures which, if you would like to do something on 1 January, may not be possible now during the year. I understand that; I find that annoying, but that is a reality. But of course I do want to prevent us from finding out in November that we would actually want to raise the minimum wage by 1 January, but that it will no longer be possible to do so. So I am also a little looking in this debate for timetables where we can do that as a Chamber. Specifically, I have that question about minimum wage. Suppose the Minister doesn't have it in her face right now, I'd like to hear it during this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u99	Mr. Chairman. The minimum wage will also be reflected in the specific measures. I can tell you there's speed on that. From my point of view, it is the planning that becomes clear to your Chamber for the summer in what way and at what speed we want to do so. But it seems clear to me that we want this all to happen quickly, especially in view of the discussion on purchasing power.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u100	The Minister will come back to the specific question you have asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u101	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u102	Then I look at Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u103	Mr. Chairman. In my term, I have argued that a number of people have come into acute trouble because an energy company has gone bankrupt, they have not been able to switch and they have been charged a total usury price. This concerns a few hundred thousand households who now sometimes pay €2, sometimes even €3 per cube of gas. In response to parliamentary questions, Secretary of State Yeşilgöz-Zegerius replied that an investigation had started in December. But it seems clear to me that you would help these people and that you would ensure that when that happens again, they can at least get on the same contract terms with the Enecos, Essents and Vattenfalls of this world as the people who have a normal contract. These people have been destroyed, they have sometimes gone from €200 to €700. Why isn't that in the package?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u104	There's been an investigation into that. I believe that this has just been completed, but my colleague, Mr Kaag, is about to deal with this measure. I was still on the basis of considerations; we will be coming to these specific measures in a moment, if you will allow it. Then these will also come along. I wrote down your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u105	I would indeed ask the Minister to go a little further in her speech. It is also a shame; all kinds of questions are asked, and the Minister says: I will come back to that in a moment. So let the Minister go a little further in her speech, would be my suggestion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u106	Mr President, I do so with love. But when the Minister says: these are the measures that have been considered, I wait until it is all over and I ask why they have not asked for these measures in the meantime. My question wasn't that illogical.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u107	Definitely not.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u108	Mr. Chairman. I was still in the balance. That's what I've been trying to tell you. Now the individual measures come along one by one. But before we get there, we'll get to purchasing power in 2023. Today we are talking about the purchasing power of 2022, a total package of 6.2 billion to dampen some of the decline in purchasing power. Of course, the CPB calculations show a nice increase in purchasing power for next year and in their gloomy scenario still +0.6%, so just say: stay the same, just above that. With all the great uncertainty there is, of course, we will continue to pay great attention to what is happening in Ukraine, in the development of gas and energy prices, in general purchasing power, in order to ensure that we can take well into account what is happening in the various groups, from world trade to purchasing power. Of course, we will come back to that when we talk to you about 2023 and beyond. I would like to make it clear that, of course, because it is so uncertain what is happening in Ukraine, on top of all kinds of other developments, we will be on the ball shorter than in other years, and so perhaps we will take decisions later in the year, or in a slightly different way, to ensure that we anticipate what is happening. In any case, we keep an eye on what happens to all these different groups. I'd like to take a look at the energy surcharge. Then I come to a few specific questions. Among other things, there is the question of minimum wage. The Minister for Finance addresses the economic implications in the broad sense and the questions of coverage and the budget. The Minister of Finance will also address questions about sustainability, built environment and energy. The Secretary of State for Finance discusses the tax measures and alternatives in the tax field, such as the supplements provided by the Chamber. I think we have already talked quite extensively about the purchasing power effects of this package. Perhaps it is good to come back to the people who are in trouble because of rising energy prices. It is still difficult to give an analytical picture, just to put it this way, because the individual situation of the people is so different. The government has a fairly accurate understanding of people's incomes, but very limited insight into spending patterns. Those are so different, because they depend on individual choices. I say that to Mrs Van der Plas, because she asked for it. When people get into trouble, it is of course extremely difficult for those people themselves, but whether they get into trouble, we can sometimes see a little more difficult. TNO made an estimate in September of last year. You also referred to the fact that there are over half a million households at risk of energy poverty. This is a combination of low income, low power and high energy costs. The research is from September, but it is nice that it says something about the nature, size and regional distribution, so where the energy poverty is. It shows that it really is a very diverse group. It may have to do with rent, but there is also an over-representation of single people, for example. There is also an over-representation in shrinking regions and in certain neighbourhoods. This kind of research helps us to understand the problem of energy poverty. Moreover, this is the investigation that the previous cabinet used to produce the package of measures. You are not asking for it, but I will give you the answer: I would like to promise you that we will repeat this investigation. Indeed, it is a very useful study to gain a better understanding of the poverty issues.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u109	Before you proceed, Mr. Alkaya of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u110	The wretchedness of the package that is now before us is that it does not, to a very large extent, reach that group of people, at least not enough. Can the Minister include that in the investigation? Can it promise that it will see how, in future, policies can be more targeted, precisely the group concerned with energy poverty? With what policy instruments can this group possibly be more targeted in the future or helped in a different way?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u111	Sure. I do not know whether this should be done in this TNO study. This is an analysis. We would like to undertake an investigation into how we can reach that group more targeted, by TNO or by another body. This investigation is the analysis. Maybe there's someone else looking at the measures. We need to take a look at that. I'm sure there'll be an investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u112	I give the floor to Mrs van der Plas from BBB, because you spoke in response to her questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u113	Thank you for the answer to the non-asked question. Well, that's kind of fun. I would have asked that question in the end, of course, but that aside. It's nice to repeat such an investigation, but it's about people at risk of energy poverty. I would like the investigation to be extended to those people who are normally not at risk because they can always pay their bills, but are in trouble in this crisis situation. I think this group will be considerably larger. I would also like to see research questions shared with the Chamber so that we know exactly what is being investigated. Then we can talk about it afterwards.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u114	I understand where Mrs. Van der Plas is going with this. I think that's a good idea. You are actually saying: look not only at the group that is already in trouble, but also at the group next to it or above which is in danger of getting into trouble. In my view, that is what you mean: looking a little bit wider than just looking at people who are already suffering and who are, for example, in debt restructuring, but also at those who are up there. What's that got to do with income effects? So yes, that broadening is definitely going to happen. We can also share the research questions. Let me combine this with Mr Alkaya's question: how can you ultimately do something for that group of people? We shall then return to Mrs Van Dijk's commitment to look at these vulnerable groups in our decision-making on 2023 and beyond. Then we can put all those pieces together. Mr Van Dijk also referred to that group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u115	Thank you for that commitment. I have the feeling that this came very close to the question about the analysis I asked the Minister earlier. My question was whether the strongest shoulders indeed bear the most heavy loads. Am I to understand that this is covered in the repeated investigation? Are we actually going to look into that distribution?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u116	As TNO's research has now been developed, it was an analysis of where the problem of energy poverty lies. Mrs van der Plas wishes to add those groups which are in danger of getting into trouble and who are sitting next to it or above it. Mr. Alkaya has asked: can you also look into what measures you need to take to help these groups in a study conducted by TNO or in another study? I think that's what we have here. That is something other than the broad question with which we started the debate. I think this research is very useful to ensure that we can conduct the debate on purchasing power for 2023 and beyond. That came back a few times yesterday. This means that, insofar as we can know on the basis of purchasing power plates, we know what vulnerability a particular group has and whether a particular group has the opportunity to spring from it. It is not for everyone to find a new job that pays more. In this labour market, that is the case for a lot of people, but not for a number of people either. Then you can also see where you can and want to adjust.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u117	I understand. I think that's a very good approach. Because the measures the cabinet is about to take will have their effect, you can see if they have helped. You can see whether they prove or disprove the theorem that they have been knocked down by the strongest shoulders, or precisely at low incomes. After all, the effects of the measures now being taken by the Cabinet will be made known in that investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u118	I think out loud, because if I interpret it as you say it now, we should take the whole of the Netherlands with us. Since this is intended for the decision-making process for 2023, I think we want to focus on those groups that we think are in trouble or that they are in danger of getting into trouble. I'm afraid we'll be doing a very large analysis. We need the answers this summer. Otherwise, we can't decide until 2023. I'd like to frame it so that it'll help us in time. A PhD in four years isn't gonna help us. Of course, we want something with which we can all get buttons to send in here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u119	I understand. There is also no request for a four-year doctoral examination. I think it would be a good idea if the research setup was shared. Then we can watch it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u120	It is good if TNO's research is updated. It was then about 500,000 households, of which three quarters live in rental homes, with a risk of energy poverty or living in energy poverty. I have already seen estimates where this has increased to over 1 million households, with a larger share of home homes added, especially in rural areas. It's all known. It is good that this is updated quickly. This is precisely why the coalition agreement agreed firstly to remove the landlord's tax, to ensure that performance agreements are made and to promote the phasing out of poorly isolated housing. These are properties with labels E, F and G. Secondly, the national isolation programme has been agreed. My question is whether TNO can discuss action options in its analysis to quickly reduce the risk. I would also like to ask whether the government in its appreciation of the investigation, as soon as it comes to the Chamber, can address the question of how what has been agreed could possibly be intensified or accelerated, both in the case of housing corporations and other landlords, as well as in the case of the national isolation programme. Because if the budget is not sufficient next year, then of course until 2030 the climate and transition fund still has quite a bit of a budget. I know that the Minister for Climate and Energy is going to look favourably at whether there is sufficient budget to really reduce the risk of energy poverty in the short term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u121	Thank you for that suggestion. I think this is in line with what Mr Alkaya just said: can we see what we can do? You are talking very specifically about accelerating sustainability options. This seems sensible to me for all kinds of reasons, both because of the sustainability needed and because of the reduced dependence on Russia. We will share those research questions with you. We should then consider whether TNO is the right body, or whether it should be two different investigations. But we're just going to work that out, so that you too have the information to understand what's going on and what we can or can't do about it. A number of questions were asked about the energy surcharge yesterday. This concerns the specific measure for the €800. We had already made a commitment and decided on €200 of this last year. This measure has also been discussed very extensively with the VNG. This means that about 800,000 households with an income of about 120% of the social minimum receive supplement. To this end, the Participation Act has been amended. That proposal was submitted to your Chamber on 15 March. I assume that this proposal will soon be discussed with Mr Schouten. This proposal makes it possible for municipalities to pay a supplement to households through the category assistance. In addition, they can automatically pay the supplement to households they already have in view. This means that there are as little implementation costs as possible for the municipalities. Because that is just a point: if we want to do this so quickly and if we want people to have the money quickly, then this must also be possible with the municipalities. There are about 350,000 households already known to the municipalities. They can get the supplement automatically. The rest of the group, about 500,000 households, must apply for the supplement themselves. So these are people who haven't been known yet. These include self-employed persons with a minimum income and AOW's without a supplementary pension. They are therefore very different groups in different municipalities. The municipalities of course also have a certain policy freedom; we are organized in the Netherlands with each other. It is also important that people have the money at their disposal quickly. That is why Minister Schouten has already informed your Chamber when submitting the bill that she is allowing the municipalities to pay out in advance. What is important is that you have asked a number of questions about this: that the right people are being reached, that it is feasible and that it is going in good consultation with the municipalities. First of all, Mr Grinwis asked for the €800 target amount to be leading, so not the total budget. In addition, we have to realise that at least that second group of 500,000 to 550,000 households are still far from being fully represented by the municipalities. There will therefore have to be a certain amount of communication. People will have to be reached so that they know that they have to apply for the supplement. That's quite an operation. They will then have to be helped at the point of contact, because they will have to sign up with their papers to show that they are entitled to them. So that's the first thing: that's $800 leading. Secondly, can we do as much as possible for as many households as possible within this scheme? It is really up to the municipalities to look up the space within the scheme as it stands. That agreement was also made with the VNG. The municipalities here have some of you requested a certain freedom of policy. We have given a hand-out for this. We are in agreement with the UNG to ensure that it is as comparable as possible. But several municipalities have a municipal poverty policy that is not necessarily the same as that of their neighbouring municipalities. However, for most municipalities that have 120% of the social minimum, the limit is really the one they use. This is not the case for all municipalities, but that is what most municipalities work with. Then the next question is: if this is the group, 350,000 and 500,000, what do you do with the group above? Let's talk about the group we have now. The question is: can municipalities handle this? The municipalities have said that they can handle it just to do this quickly. But of course they still have a number of other assignments on their plate. We think that's very important. This group, up to 120% of the social minimum, we really want to operate quickly. We really want to make sure people have the money in their accounts quickly. So we should not make it more complex and put even more on top of it. Then the question is whether we can expand that group, so also for everyone up to 130% €800. Except we don't have any cover for that right now, you move the problem. If you're above 130%, you get the question: what's going on for me? Then there's the question of whether you can do something with a rod. That is very complicated in terms of implementation. The municipalities have already said that they are unable to rig that up. You come in some kind of supplemental way of doing things. They really do not see that as feasible at the moment. It's really hard, and I understand that. 'Cause if you're just above that 120% limit, what don't you get, what does your neighbor just underneath get? What we want to say is that we really want to make sure that we can do it for that group up to 120% now and that we can do it. That's very important. Then we look into the discussions with the municipalities about what the problems are there. But do you realize that what we add to complexity is almost impossible and that there is no cover for it. I guess we're dealing with a real problem here. That 120% is quite widely accepted and that group is well in sight. If you take the group above it, a lot of municipalities actually have no idea who they are. They need to map that. It's a lot of research to determine who's covered. This group must then also be operated. And if you'd like to cut it down, as some of you suggested, then you'll find yourself in some kind of supplemental method, Mr. Omtzigt referred to there too, which only makes it more complex and therefore difficult to implement. So that's a tricky message.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u122	First, Mr Grinwis, then Mr Van Weyenberg and then Mrs Inge van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u123	Thank you, this is very clear. Thank you, too, for the cabinet's leadership is the €800 and not the budget. The Minister also makes it very clear that for those 350 000 households it is actually a piece of cake, but it is quite complicated for those 500 000 households. Now a number of assumptions about how a large part of that group will be achieved have been budgeted. But now that the amount has been raised from €200 to €800, it may well be that more people are going to report. Do I understand correctly, and that is actually also a question for Minister Kaag of Finance, which, because €800 is leading, is not a problem if the budget needs to be adjusted to reach the target audience? And that it is not at the expense of other poverty and debt budgets, but that it is therefore appropriate? It may well be that it's too little.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u124	First of all, we keep our finger on the pulse and see to what extent that budget is being exploited. The estimate at the moment is that the budget is sufficient and the €800 is leading, but: "we cross that bridge when we get there."
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u125	Let me look at Mr Grinwis and see if his question has been answered. That's the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u126	I'm staying in this same quadrant. I have had previous debates on the Corona support packages. There were also assumptions about the use made. But what did you see in practice? Municipalities have done a fantastic job, but they said: we cannot rely on non-use rates at the front. It is not the case that municipalities have money left over, so we may be going to reduce amounts out of certainty, because we do not want the financial risk to fall suddenly with the municipalities. We can't afford that. The minister now says: we'll cross that bridge when we get there. I want to avoid that municipalities now spend the sums up to 120% on the group going down. I would like to come back to that other group separately because they are afraid to walk out of the budget themselves and they cannot afford it. Both Mr Grinwis and I gave examples of this yesterday in our first term. Today, I ask the cabinet for a guarantee that the €800 will be leading and that the talks with the municipalities will take place in such a way that we will not all get municipalities that will lower the amount because they would like to give the €800, but do not dare to do so because of their financial situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u127	I understand Mr Van Weyenberg's point. The €800 is leading. Again, we will have a very good conversation with the VNG and make it very clear that they can just spend €800 on all those who fall into the target group. It's possible. So they don't have to cut in advance because they're thinking, maybe I'm short.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u128	That is good, but I can guess a little that the reaction of the municipalities will be fine, but that means that if I am not going to use the word 'unexpected' here, then it will be possible to reach a higher percentage of these people than is currently assumed in the sum, which will not be a financial problem for municipalities. By the way, reaching those people is gonna be a giant piece of cake.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u129	Yes, if they are among the target group, then it is not a problem for the municipalities, unless a municipality decides to do something quite different. But when it comes to this measure, which is 120% of the social minimum, the answer is yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u130	This is very good news, I think. This means that municipalities, if they give €800 to people under 120% and if the bill exceeds their budget, know that they can report to the Minister of Social Affairs or her colleague at the Ministry.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u131	Yes, with my colleague.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u132	In the debate we discussed in detail the 120% limit and the 130% limit. I am also curious about the safety net limit, in the situation that someone comes to the counter and the municipal official thinks: I shouldn't let them go home like that. Are you sure we can't think of anything for that? During corona, we had some sort of TONK arrangement. So there's already a structure for that. Can we not create something like this to prevent this official from having to send people home with pain in his heart and say no, knowing that that is simply not justified?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u133	There are, of course, all kinds of special assistance schemes in municipalities. All kinds of municipalities have all kinds of schemes that they can benefit from at the moment, in addition to the €800 for the target group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u134	I also asked yesterday: do we feel that in addition to this, those arrangements are sufficient to prevent people from sinking through the ice in the coming months? I'm not quite sure yet. I would have liked a little more information on this in this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u135	It is, of course, very difficult to assess whether or not it is enough for each individual. We now have a total package of 6.2 billion. This is what we can do right now for the purchasing power of 2022. Your question about 2023 and those vulnerable groups we're taking with us. In addition, for people at risk of debt or debt, there is, of course, debt relief and there are all kinds of municipal offices where people can go. They may be able to ask the large energy companies to postpone payment. You know, things like that can happen. And they have that $800 if they fall into that target group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u136	We all feel that a lot of people will not fall into that target group. And yes, there are many possibilities in the municipalities, such as special assistance. I mentioned that possibility myself. But my question is still: do we have the feeling that in the coming months we will indeed not let anyone fall off the board?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u137	I think we are having the debate on reducing purchasing power for those who are under 120% of the minimum. I think we're helping these people. It won't take away all the pain; I think we should be honest about that too. No target group will do that. It certainly won't take away all the pain from the people in those drafty houses. We have just discussed this in detail. We'll be right there, I think we'll talk about the group that's up there. We know that it will be very difficult to do something for them through the same municipal regulations.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u138	Is it not wise to think about such a safety net now? We can almost count on our fingers that's the next step we're going to need. We just don't have a safety net like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u139	We can find out what safety nets can be for all kinds of different groups, even in the run-up to the discussions on 2023 and 2024. But I do not think that we have any room in this package at the moment to take another step, because at the moment we simply have no cover for it either. These are the choices in this package. We can certainly figure out what's possible and what might still be possible. But we've already reached a very large group with this package, haven't we? It's one in seven households.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u140	The bulk of the money, of that 2.8 billion package, goes to that VAT reduction and that tax reduction. On average, this money is more concentrated on higher incomes. The cabinet doesn't think that's such a problem. Now we're talking about the people with the lower incomes. To give you a picture, I say: 120% of the social minimum for a single parent is €1.456 per month. I have argued in favour of raising it to 130%, by the way, with Mrs Van Dijk, and Mr Grinwis said that too. At 130% it will be €1.577 in the month. That is €800 for that group of people who get between €17,500 and €19,000 per year. Some of them work, some of them get benefits. Of that group of people with €1,500 in one year and €100 in the month gets a share that will be €800 soon, and another part will not. Why is the Minister not prepared to make that 130% limit, which many municipalities have, possible and at least to accommodate these people?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u141	I understand the question very well. With the coverage we now have, we have chosen to land that €800 with the group that is quite familiar with municipalities, so the people with an income of 120% of the social minimum. There are indeed a number of municipalities where there are 130% going. If we were to give everyone up to 130% €800, we would be talking about a very different budget mix and then we would have to find cover for it. And if we were to take it down in a truffle, which could also be an alternative, we would have real implementation problems. So this is a very difficult problem. Because if we do it now up to 130%, you'll be standing here in a month with the question: why can't we do it up to 140%?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u142	The Minister is right, because I think that the lower middle incomes are inadequate in this package. I also said that there are few people who get too much and many people who get too little. That is indeed my main message, my main judgment on this package. But if that is the balance, if it is a budgetary balance for the cabinet, I do not understand why more than 2 billion for the most part gets to higher incomes, and the smallest part in this targeted package at lower incomes. If it is really a problem of coverage, I would be prepared to increase excise duties by €0.01 or €0.02 less and to extend it. Because that gets much more to the people who really need it. If you ask me as a PvdA'er, we'll raise the capital tax, we'll do a little bit of box 2, we'll do some tax avoidance and we'll pay for it with that. But if it had to be within this package, why isn't that choice made if the cabinet is sticking to its own criterion of meeting the lowest incomes?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u143	The package is about a third, a third and a third. Lowering VAT on energy also has an impact on low incomes. Reducing excise duty has a particular impact on workers with lower incomes who have to use their cars to get to work. In this way we also reach target groups that might... because that €800 is of course mainly among people with 120% social minimum and below that. It doesn't reach those workers. That group Mr. Van Dijck assigned, you'll achieve with that tax reduction and with that tax reduction on energy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u144	Mr Nijboer, last interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u145	But I also put forward an alternative to that in the debate yesterday. Mr Heinen also mentioned this. This unpaid travel allowance is, of course, much cheaper for the public authorities than a generic reduction in excise duty, because that travel allowance pays the employer. If you want to compensate the workers with a lower income, you would be much better off choosing that measure. So I'm getting less and less convinced of the package made by the cabinet. Something is sketched as if there are objective criteria, but even if you walk past them, the cabinet's own criteria: the lowest incomes and the lower middle incomes are the most achieved, the workers, the elderly, the tenants are the ones who can make much better choices with the same budget that help people much more. My big question in this debate is why the cabinet did not choose to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u146	Mr Van Rij will deal specifically with this travel allowance. We have made these choices by considering that we want it as soon as possible, that we want to go to the source and that we want to help both the low income and the working group in one way or another to reduce the loss of purchasing power. We are in favour of this, because a reduction in excise duty has an effect on those who have to go to work by car, as I have just said. The reduction in VAT on energy affects everyone, but also those people with a high increase in energy costs in those drafty houses. The $800 for low incomes is just there.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u147	I would like to ask the following question, because unfortunately I will have to go to another debate later. I was triggered by Mrs Van Dijk's word 'vangnet'. The measures are not nothing; 6 billion is not nothing. We're talking about those vulnerable groups. You can probably assume that a lot of people will get into trouble despite the package. We have seen in the premium affair that a whole cascade of miserable consequences is going to roll. One of them is that there is going to be a bailiff problem, especially among those vulnerable groups. We won't be able to prevent that. My question to this Minister is whether, as in the case of the premium affair, she is prepared to talk to the bailiffs' association of interests to see how the consequences of these painful affairs can at least be alleviated by keeping the bailiffs a little under control. That's actually the simple question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u148	If the question is "or how," then that willingness is certain. Then it will be my colleague for Poverty Policy who will do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u149	I just had a little debate with the minister about the group up to 120%. I now have a question about the group between 120% and 130%.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u150	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u151	I'm just trying to focus on where the problem would be, because I want to break up "no cover" and "unexecutable and delay." I think that's two different discussions. I have an eye for what can't be. I also know we don't want any delay. But do I hear the Minister say it's not covered? That's true, and that's what we need to think about. Or does she say: no, municipalities simply can't manage if I do that arrangement outside of 120%? What exactly does the VNG say about this? I'd better get back to the debate on corona support. Then we had a discussion once or twice about what was told to the cabinet and then I received letters from aldermen, which made it impossible for me to understand. So what do the congregations say? "We can't" or "we can't do it with the money we get"? These are two very different arguments.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u152	That's an important question. It is true that there are two arguments. But let me start with: I see with the Chamber that €800 for incomes up to 120% of the social minimum and €0 for above that is a tough one. Let's face it for a while. I see that problem, too. I just want to make sure that the 120% group can continue. That train has to go on, because those people just really need that money soon. So that train just has to drive. Then there is the demand for the group by 120% to 130%. If you give everyone €800 of this except that we don't have any coverage for that at the moment, it's also a huge amount of money. You'll get the same discussion with that 130%. Then you come to the alternative of taking it down in a truffle. There's no cover for that now. So if we wanted to, we'd have to find it somewhere. The Minister of Finance will explain that those bags are quite empty at the moment. And in terms of implementation, I understand, as we have received from the VNG, that it will be very difficult for you to stagger. Not only do you have to map out the 120% group, which you don't know all about, and make sure they appear at your window, but also find the 130% group, which is even more unknown, and get it at your window. And then you have to introduce some kind of phasing-out regime. We have understood from the VNG, but it is my colleague for Poverty Policy who has had that conversation that this is not currently feasible for municipalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u153	Finally, Mr Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u154	As stated in the reply: no one wants this group to go up to 120% in the delay due to the discussion on the group between 120% and 130% of the social minimum. I don't want to. I don't think any of the colleagues want that. So let's go with that group to 120%. The Minister has just said that anyone can get this €800, and if this leads to budgetary problems for municipalities, they can report to the Cabinet. The expectation is that there will be enough money, but if it is not, then that money will come. Then my question about that group from 120% to 130%. We're gonna talk about that proposal separately in the Chamber. I would actually like to have what municipalities say on paper that can and cannot be done. Because in the Minister's reply we are constantly hearing 'coverage' and 'executable'. I don't want to ask for anything... if I have to cover something, I'm gonna think about it. But I also have the impression that I might want something that is just not in there right now. I hate to say that, but I always want to listen to that. So I want to get it more clearly on paper from this Minister's colleague before we talk about that proposal in the Chamber, because it is just not sharp enough for me to say it honestly.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u155	I can imagine. In any case, we can ensure that Mr Schouten sends you a letter, before you talk to her about this bill, in which the questions that live in the Chamber are all properly put together. Then we are talking about the problems of implementation and the alternatives that Mrs Van Dijk was talking about. With that you can say: what is the problem and how can you solve it or not, and what implementation problems do you encounter? I repeat, as my colleague Mr Kaag will do in a moment, that it is not covered at the moment. But that is a different question than the question of what can be done, in conversation with the VNG. We will also ensure that you clearly understand from us what we in the UNG have understood about what is possible and what is not possible, because that is what you asked for. I also realize that a number of municipalities are only a few, especially the large..... go to 130%. These implementation problems lie mainly with the medium-sized municipalities, which have many groups but only have the group up to 120% and the groups above them are not at all. The fact that there are a few larger municipalities that are more advanced with their systems is very nice for the people who live there, but that does not apply to the whole of the Netherlands. Let us make sure that we put that on paper properly, because then we have it all clearly and then you can also base your judgment on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u156	In addition to colleague Van Weyenberg. If this €800 is leading and not the budget, then I do think that if there is a problem with the budget that budget needs to be replenished from Finance. That for all the clarity. Otherwise, the €800 is de facto non-leading. Then the second, on this point. For implementing technical reasons, it can be much faster for municipalities such as Westland or The Hague, which have a poverty policy for the group up to 130% of the WSM, the legal social minimum, to work with that 130% group. They can't target that 120% group at all, because they don't know it. They only know the group up to 130%. So technically, a municipality like The Hague, which wants to reach 73% of the target group with its poverty pass, can transfer €800 very quickly, but then it gets €800 to a group up to 130% legal social minimum. If the Minister responds to this and is going to carry out what Mr Van Weyenberg has asked for, can she respond to this? Because it's not just 120% and put something on top of it. It is also the other way around: 130% you have and then you have to take something off it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u157	We can discuss the individual situation of The Hague very well. There are still a number of municipalities. To make that clear, the agreements with the VNG, which my colleague Schouten really discussed extensively with the VNG, are about 120%. But we can all take this into account in a more comprehensive response, so that you are well prepared for that debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u158	I want those answers now. There's one reason. The cabinet itself chooses to pay this €800 before the legal treatment. I have fundamental objections to that. I saw it at the €30,000 of the Catshuisgeling: foul! It went to the wrong people. And we knew it. This arrangement was announced in December. The cabinet submits a law on 15 March and starts implementation on 15 March. Then we can all go home, and then we don't have to do anything. That's compably illegal. You will also be punished by the General Court of Auditors. That is why you must answer the question here today as to whether it is feasible. If it was a plan we were gonna discuss, we'd do it in law enforcement. So I just want to have the specific questions answered. Do people get that on the basis of the income from 2022, 2021 or 2020? And how do we deal with self-employed people with irregular income? And what happens when the payroll is laid? In any case, there must be an answer to these three questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u159	My colleague Schouten did indeed send this to your Chamber on 15 March. She has announced that municipalities can start cashing out, because those people need that money. That's right. The discussions with the municipalities on the feasibility of up to 120% clearly show that the municipalities can do so. Then I come to a number of questions that you ask. I'll start with the last one. An energy supplement is not included in the payroll. So that's obvious. Self-employed people will have to tell the municipality what their income is, and then it is up to the municipality to make a judgment. The answer to the question about 2022, 2021 or 2020 must remain yours for a while. I'll come back to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u160	This question is crucial. I'll explain. We don't know what the income for 2022 is. With pensioners we can make a gamble, but it is difficult to ask workers and especially not self-employed people: are you under 120% this year? For then it is: no idea; can it be that I earn my income in summer; do I have a right to it or not? About 2021, it's not clear. So you can look at the Secretary of State for Finance, but he is still watching every day how many millions of returns arrive until 1 April and 1 May. So he will say: I really have a picture of what people have earned around 1 July; I cannot provide that before 1 July. If you go back to 2020, you'll see that a lot of people have seen a change. In the meantime, they have become unemployed, may have had a lot more income or a divorce and have fallen from a decent middle class into a rather difficult low income. That would give you that right, but perhaps the exact opposite is also the case and there was still a low income in 2020, but in 2022 there is still a good or decent income. These aren't small questions. This is about hundreds of thousands of people. The cabinet submitted a law on 15 March. Moreover, it included the amount of €200 and not even €800. That's what it said. The ugly thing about what is happening now is that the cabinet has filed a law for €200 and that municipalities can spend €800 on a group, while we don't know whether this is happening on the basis of an income from 2020, 2021 or 2022. That's the simplest question you can ask. I can see an execution scheme appearing here, apart from what we have to add to it by the people who just dropped €2. How are municipalities supposed to do this? How should the municipalities implement this?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u161	The discussions of the VNG with my colleague Schouten are quite intensive, to ensure that this is feasible. And the municipalities have actually committed themselves to that feasibility. As for your question on how it is going exactly: well, I think I should refer you to the debate with Mr Schouten, which I assume, but it will be your agenda soon. What we really want is that we can spend up to 120% on that group as soon as possible. That is why we have put together the package, which consists of several parts and for which Mr Schouten sent that letter to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u162	I'll take a look at Mr. Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u163	Mr. Chairman. I don't accept this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u164	Is there anything else I can add to that? Look, in the conversation with the VNG, of course, we also have a kind of manual for how we should implement this, together with the VNG. In addition, all these municipalities have a certain freedom of policy, as you know, so that not every scheme in each municipality will be the same. This means, for example, that it is up to the municipality to find out how it fills that out. That is, of course, municipal policy freedom.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u165	That's total randomness. I do not know why we stopped the debate last night. I asked this question. It is a crucial question to determine which 500 000 households are eligible. People just want to know: am I eligible on the basis of 2020, 2021 or 2022? That's a very basic question. And I can tell you that the Minister has just given an answer that it is not going to hold, that municipalities will not be allowed to choose for themselves. You can put that on a note. I would like to suspend the debate until we have the answer to that question. It's about which half a million households we're going to compensate. This can't be happening. The Social Affairs Committee has taken it under urgent procedure. Written input will be provided on 30 March, but municipalities will have to start implementing it. And cabinet, please let us discuss tomorrow's debate between desk and policy, on the practicability of laws, so let's talk about laws here and then implement it, but let's go. Really! We don't have to do that anymore. So would you like to take a 15-minute break and tell me which group gets this arrangement? It's crucial to know who doesn't fall through the ice.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u166	Thank you. I would like to ask the Minister for a reply and then suspend a moment's discussion with the Members. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u167	Yes, Mr. Chairman. These are, of course, a lot of questions that are addressed in the discussion with the municipalities about how it should be carried out. You are also asking me a number of questions for which I really refer to the debate you are still having with Mr Schouten. At the same time, for these municipalities, the 350 000 households are known to whom they can simply pay it off on their own initiative. That's where they started, I suppose. That's a very clear, defined group. And of that group 500,000 households on top of that, they also know very well who is quite certain. Of course, that's not just out of the loose wrist. 350 000 of their own, these are just clear groups of households, for which it is very clear that they are going to get it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u168	I'm gonna suspend for a moment. I would very much like to have a chat with the members.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u169	Let's move on. I would ask Members to take their place again. We just agreed we'd finish the first term today. Then the cabinet has the time to collect the information at all information requests or to respond to the additional questions asked. A number of questions were also asked yesterday. I hope, and I also say to the cabinet, that we can do the second term in the short term. We'll be in touch when that information is available, but at least we'll finish the first term today. I will give the floor to the Minister again.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u170	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We will indeed ensure that we answer the various questions in the near future. We will involve Mr Schouten to ensure that we provide you with the right information so that this package is not only implemented quickly but also properly. Of course, we all do not want this to go wrong in the introduction. I understand very well what Mr Omtzigt just said. He would like to understand what the arrangement is like, how it can be implemented by the VNG and what we meant by it. He also wants, of course, that there are no unintended side effects or, if they are, that we accept them. Of course, that can also be the case with a measure. We will make sure that you have that information, so that you can really base the next conversation with us on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u171	Then I conclude that the questions asked will be answered as soon as possible. They're about people who don't get a supplement, but whose income is under seizure. They're very low. But if your formal income is moderate, but you have a pay record, then you're pushed under a minimum of existence. That was the question. It was misunderstood for a moment. I get that. It's about the standard year, it's about divorces, it's about self-employed people, it's about people who were students in 2020 and have a decent income in 2022; that's also a normal way of doing things. The point is that at least the manual agreed with the municipalities is also in the Chamber at that time, so that we can simply form an idea of whether this is feasible.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u172	We're gonna take care of that. You have now raised a number of questions. I do not know whether you have submitted them with the written questions. That makes it a little easier to make sure that the written procedure has already started. I'm writing with you now...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u173	No, I get that. They're also in the stenogram.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u174	...but I just want to make sure I have the right questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u175	First, the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u176	Of course, I'm writing with you, but I just want to make sure I have the right questions. That is why I asked: have you submitted these questions in writing? Because then I would have something to read.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u177	Unfortunately, not yet. I also have great difficulty keeping track of it all. But that's another route, with one and a half employees working hard to do all this. The written procedure shall begin on 30 March. If the Minister considers that appropriate, we can also send it in writing. I have no difficulty sending these questions to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u178	We will check with you to see if we have understood the precise questions, because you are now, of course, an expert in this area.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u179	That's right. Mr Klaver also had a question about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u180	The same applies, of course, to Mr Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u181	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u182	Right. Mrs Van Dijk, among others, asked about the Caribbean Netherlands. We'll make $5 million available for that. Mr Van Rij continues to discuss the impact of this package. So much for the block of energy surcharge. Let me now turn to the set of other questions. Among other things, it has been asked whether the increase in the statutory minimum wage cannot be brought forward and whether we can further increase it. Of course, the coalition agreement is based on 7.5%. In addition, there is also the minimum hourly wage, that 36-hour and 40-hour working week. That's really helping, too. What we need to be aware of for a moment is that the minimum wage continues to work in all social schemes. In this context, I would like to mention taxation and surcharges. That makes it quite complex. This means that the introduction takes time. So we can't increase that by 1 July of this year. That's just really impossible. It is, of course, important that we do this quickly, because the increase in the wml is going to help the groups that just deserve the wml. Let me also take a look at the debate on vulnerable groups. We need to make them less vulnerable. I will come back to you before the summer with information on the precise impact of this increase in the minimum wage and the legislative process. I would also point out that in the coalition agreement we have embraced the initiative legislative proposal on the introduction of the minimum hourly wage of the PvdA and GroenLinks. That bill aims to ensure that every minimum wage earner earns the same amount per hour. That really means a significant increase for a number of people. Then there were questions about the earning limits in the Participation Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u183	Excuse me. Before proceeding, Mr Klaver van GroenLinks has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u184	We've been asking questions about minimum wage. There is a natural indexing moment on 1 July. The Minister indicated in his replies that it is not customary to deviate from the system, and to index more there. But now we're all doing things that aren't common. The reduction of excise duties in April is also not common practice. What is the Minister's motivation not to deviate from this?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u185	Like I said, if you raise the minimum wage, it's pretty complex, because it's working through all the other measures. In this context, I would mention social security, taxation and supplements. So we are doing something that will greatly increase the complexity of this year without having a precise picture of what that means. That's not convenient right now. So this package for 2022 focuses with very direct benefits on a number of groups and on a reduction in VAT. But you really need to think about what an increase in the wml means for all systems.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u186	Mr. Clover, your last interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u187	I really don't understand any of this. Each year the minimum wage is increased, at least adjusted. It will be indexed in July. So that's what all the systems are already set up for. What we are proposing is: use that moment to increase the minimum wage more, to index more. So that always happens, it's incorporated into all the systems. The cabinet has also decided to raise the minimum wage at all. This will require a more extensive change, which will come in a few years' time. But you can do something already in July. Why isn't that done? The letter states that this is not possible because it is not according to the system, but now I hear that the cabinet does not want it. So what is it? Can't or won't?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u188	No. The tricky thing is that you cannot make an atypical increase before 1 July of this year without having all kinds of complex consequences.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u189	I'm aware this is my last question, I'm sorry. Each year the minimum wage is indexed. It has an effect on benefits and all these things. So if that is instead of 2% 4%, can you please describe to me what complexity that entails that we cannot overlook?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u190	For example, if you make 2% 4%, then of course that goes on in all the other schemes. Apart from the fact that you then have a budget, you also have to make sure that you know exactly how to deal with it. This is a discussion on purchasing power 2022 with 6 billion in measures, I say just once again, in which we have chosen to do a number of things and not to do a number of things.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u191	I would like to ask the Minister if she could perhaps explain this question a little further if she does inform the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u192	Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u193	Otherwise, it'll go back and forth for a long time.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u194	Can I give you one supplement? I will not repeat my question. What I am looking for is that said Mr Van Weyenberg even though something cannot be implemented, is there a budgetary problem why we should not want this or lack the political will of a cabinet to take this step? For me, for example, the minimum wage is all mixed up, because the answer that is being given now is really different from the written questions. I just don't think it's right what the minister says.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u195	Mr. Chairman. Then I'd like to get back to that, because we have to make sure it's all right.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u196	The Minister indicated that before the summer she would return in a letter to that increase in the statutory minimum wage. Now there has also been the proposal to decouple the AOW once so that it does not go along with the increase in the statutory minimum wage. It is precisely this target group that is also very difficult at the moment and is getting even more difficult, given the higher gas prices and inflation. May I assume you'll take that target group with you in the letter for the summer?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u197	Mrs Den Haan refers to the motion adopted here in the Chamber. Of course, we will return to this with the spring decision-making and purchasing power 2023, as well as with a number of other motions which all relate to purchasing power for the following year. Then I'll go to the side-earning limits in the Participation Act. Mrs. Van Dijk asked for that. As you know, in the coalition agreement, we are seeking to broaden these earning limits in the Participation Act. The exact form is still being worked out by Mr Schouten. There will be a policy plan for the revision of the Participation Act to your Chamber in the second quarter, and that is why Mr Schouten is going to do so. Mrs Van der Plas asked to what extent employers help workers with energy costs. There are a number of signs that, in the course of the negotiations on collective agreements, wishes for wage increases on the part of workers are influenced by higher inflation, which, of course, involves energy prices. As you know, there are collective bargaining between employer and employee, so I do not enter into it as a ruler, but we are, of course, monitoring all the signals. Mr Grinwis asked about interest-free lending for people in debt relief and asked if we could remove that threshold. Mr Schouten can talk to municipalities about how municipalities can help households who want to isolate their homes but do not have the resources to do so because they are in debt relief. Interest-free lending with the Credit Bank is not normally possible, but I would like to say a word to the municipality on behalf of Mr Schouten.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u198	I thank the Minister for that. The point is that there are, of course, several municipalities which currently have interest to be paid at the Heat Fund or at the Credit Bank, which have to cancel or advance. That's how they help low-income people isolate their homes. That is, of course, one-off investments and years of taking advantage of a lower energy bill. This is now being made impossible for people in debt relief. It is therefore the specific example of municipalities that are already helping these people at the moment. But there is still an obstacle in the regulation. Thank you for the commitment. I welcome the fact that this case has been dealt with.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u199	The case will certainly be dealt with. Whether it's resolved, I can't promise in advance, but I can promise the conversation about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u200	Before I give the floor to Mrs van der Plas, I suggest that we suspend for lunch after the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment has spoken. I call Mrs van der Plas.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u201	My question was not so much whether employers help pay the energy bill. My question was whether there are any discussions with employers' organisations to see how employers can help to relieve their employees. That could be another way. There may still be some room for employers to show good employership by giving some kind of relief. I would like to answer the question as to whether there are any such talks. I had tabled another motion on isolation, following on from what Mr Grinwis said. On 23 September, a motion of mine was adopted with broad support to provide citizens with an isolation voucher. I was curious to see how that motion was implemented or what the state of play was.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u202	To start with that second question, I will have to check with my colleagues. I assume that's Jetten and De Jonge. Consultation with the social partners takes place very regularly, sometimes several times a week. That's not just about purchasing power. You can imagine that it is also about corona, or about Ukraine and the reception of refugees. However, we are certainly also talking about purchasing power. I also know that it is discussed regularly within the ESC and between employers and employees. Of course, I'm not in all the conversations. Some conversations I make myself and some conversations are real between employers and employees. The evolution of inflation, the impact on purchasing power, which means for the different groups and what that means for citizens versus companies: that is all the subject of conversation at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u203	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u204	Mr. Chairman. I have one more question from the last block left. Mrs Van Dijk asked about the non-use of regulations. It is indeed quite a challenge to reach the people they need most and from whom you would like them to make use of the arrangements. You specifically pointed to the elderly and the AIO. There are many initiatives, including the Amenities Guide. A study carried out by the SZW Inspection has indeed shown that there is a high level of non-use of the general assistance. Minister Schouten will also ensure that combating the non-use of facilities becomes an important part of the Action Plan against Poverty. There will also be attention to the question of how best to reach low-income workers. From the government we are working on continuous information to bring to the attention of the AIO, but also on a better application procedure. We all do that in cooperation with the municipalities. There is also the intention to carry out that pilot in relation to information exchange. Colleagues have previously reported to the Chamber that this is complicated and that there are a number of questions in the field of privacy, but we are also working on this to see what we can do with it. Mr. Chairman. That was the end of the first set of questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-4.u205	Clock stroke 1:00 a.m. I suggest we suspend for half an hour for lunch and then we start with the response by the other regiments.
