ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u1	Then we will continue with the next debate, namely on the legislative proposal Change in the Constitution of the provision on the inviolability of letter, telephone and telegraph secrecy (35790).
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u2	The first speaker was Mrs Dekker-Abdulaziz of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u3	Mr. Chairman. In times of big data, communication via social media and unprecedented speed of data exchange, the protection of confidential communication is very important. In a democratic constitutional state that takes itself seriously, this principle is protected in the Constitution. At the moment, that is not enough. Our Constitution is still talking about communicating through the telegraph. Who else knows what that is? I have to explain it to my kids. It's high time for an update. All communication must be protected regardless of the means used. The protection must be technologically independent. Fortunately, we are here today to settle that. D66 is therefore certainly in favour of this proposal. That was so at first reading, and it still is. However, my group continues to have some questions about the scope of the concepts and the proposed text. This is not in line with the purpose of this proposal. The purpose of the explanatory statement is to ensure that the interest served by this Article is the ability to communicate confidentially. Article 13 has greater protection than the other privacy articles in the Constitution, because the communication secret contains a vulnerability that the other articles lack. Breaches always take place without the sender and receiver being aware of them. My first question concerns the storage of communication data in the cloud. In the explanatory memorandum we read that the storage of data managed by a third party is also protected. This means that open mails stored on a server, Facebook communications or data stored in a cloud, such as Dropbox or Google Docs, are protected. During the debate on the Innovation Law Criminal Procedure, your colleague, the Minister of Justice, interpreted that the information contained in the cloud is not protected by Article 13 Constitution. Isn't that strange in the light of purpose? A cloud managed by a third party also has to do with the vulnerability that protects Article 13 Constitution? A third has power of decision. In addition, stored data in the cloud is also constantly on the move, as Google and Facebooks move data from one storage center to another each time. Transport is therefore taking place. The explanatory statement says: if there is transport, Article 13 of the Constitution applies. Can the Minister clarify this? If she agrees with the interpretation of the Minister of Justice, can she explain how that is consistent with the purpose of the draft Constitution? Perhaps this is a bit of a technical question, but this Minister will have no problem with that. I think I remember that the Minister shared my opinion on this when she herself, as a Member of Parliament, made the first reading of this proposal and asked Minister Plasterk about it. Mr. Chairman. In 2014, a distinction was made between traffic data "who has communicated with whom," what time and where "what" and the content of the communication. But can this distinction be made in 2022, now that we can learn a lot more about someone's life with big data? That's only possible if we only have someone's traffic records. We have a lot more possibilities to analyse data, and that is why it is important to include that part in Article 13. The question to the Minister is therefore whether she shares D66's view that the sensitivity and protection value of traffic data has increased, that the reliability of communication is at stake and that traffic data should therefore be covered by Article 13? Mr President, I will conclude with a question on the definition of 'national security'. When exactly is that going to happen? This concept is also used in numerous other laws. These laws seriously infringe our fundamental rights. There is always reference to abstract terms and interpretation of the European Court of Human Rights, but this interpretation is far too abstract and too broad. A citizen who wants to know what his rights are cannot be fooled. We are looking for handles, which shows how the concept should be understood in the Dutch context. That is important, because we can then know when there is a judicial test and when there is not. Can the Minister fill that in? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u4	Thank you very much. Then I give the floor to Mr Strolenberg of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u5	Thank you. Like Mrs Dekker of D66, I also had to explain to my daughters of 10 and 13 what a telegraph is. That's a man or woman who got paid by word at the post office to pass messages. I can hardly imagine it anymore. I don't think I've ever used it myself for my parents; it really comes from a long time ago. In that sense, I think it is a good thing that we are going to bring the Constitution to this point. Of course, it's hopelessly out of date. The content of communication must be protected and not only the written letters, but also digital messages, such as text messages and WhatsApp. We welcome the second reading, which states that Article 13 must be technologically independent. The remedy used for this purpose is irrelevant. If the right to secret communication is equal, regardless of the means of communication, there must also be one uniform way of limiting that secret. In any case, the proposal also leaves jurisdiction to the courts. In this context, only national security services, including authorities, can open messages. I can say that the VVD is also positive about this modernisation blow and will agree to this second reading.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u6	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Koekkoek van Volt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u7	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. There's a first time for everything. This also applies to my participation in this debate on the change of the Constitution. On behalf of Volt, I will contribute to this part of the debate on telecommunications secrecy and the debate on the right to a fair trial. We believe it is important to clarify a number of things, because we as a party attach great importance to constitutional values, whether they are protected at international, European, national or Kingdom level. That is why I have a number of questions in this context on the following issues: the scope of telecommunications secrecy, the relationship to EU law and a look ahead to constitutional review. The first is the scope of telecommunications secrecy. Volt is, of course, in favour of the proposal before us. The current 1983 provision is dated. It is strange that, according to our Constitution, there is no protection for all forms of telecommunications. Since the first reading is now from a number of years ago, I have the following question. Is the Minister sufficiently confident that all current and near-future forms of communication are protected by this provision? Secondly, on the scope of the article on communication secrecy. According to the proposed amendment to Article 13, the content of communication falls within the scope of the article. Traffic data and metadata are not covered by the scope of the article. The Minister states that the data is protected under Article 10 of the Constitution, the right to privacy. I do not quite follow it, because it may also be data from legal persons, or from natural persons acting in a post or profession, such as a journalist. I do not believe that these people's traffic data are protected by constitutional law. That is why I ask the Minister why this choice was made. Does the Minister consider that the protection provided for in the proposed Article 13 is sufficient in view of the current state of the art? Mr. Chairman. I would then like to consider the relationship between this proposal and the e-Privacy Regulation. During the written examination, the Minister still assumed that the final text of this Regulation would be adopted by the end of 2021. Of course, that is not the case. But how does the Minister see this constitutional change in the light of what the e-Privacy Regulation aims to regulate? It is specifically intended that this Regulation should also apply to services that enable communication across the Internet, such as Teams and WhatsApp. It also protects metadata, both for natural and legal persons. This protection is therefore wider than the proposed Article 13. My question to the Minister is: how do these things relate to each other? I would also like to briefly focus our European vision on Germany, as the coalition agreement proposes a right to encryption. That means real end-to-end encryption without built-in vulnerabilities. Does protecting telecommunications, as proposed here in Article 13, also imply the right to encryption for the Minister? I'd like to hear the Minister's views on this. Finally, Mr President. This Parliament, in its composition, has expressed the wish to lift the prohibition of review of Article 120 Constitution. That's what we've been talking about before today. The desire to allow constitutional review or to establish a constitutional court, as Volt wants, is back on the table. That is why, in my view, you cannot judge constitutional changes without bearing this in mind. That is why I am asking about this adjustment: has the Minister taken account of this immediate or at least the foreseeable future? What impact does the Minister think this change will have when constitutional review is allowed? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u8	Thank you. I call Mrs Maatoug van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u9	Then we arrived at today's second reading and constitutional change: the change in the Constitution of the provision on the inviolability of letter, telephone and telegraph secrecy. I, too, had an introduction in which I referred to the telegraph, but that has already been done so well by my fellow Members that I fully agree with that. What we are talking about at second reading is a fundamental starting point in our democratic rule of law. That principle is that people can exchange views confidentially. Today's constitutional protection has become rather outdated, as colleagues have pointed out. It is therefore also good that we now formulate this provision independently of technology, so that today's digital communication between people and future forms of communication is also protected. GroenLinks was in favour of this proposal at first reading and is still in favour of it at second reading. For the Minister's good understanding, I would like to hear again at this second reading how she looks at possible new forms of communication in the future, as other colleagues have already asked. As far as the government is concerned, are they all covered by this new provision? And if they are all protected at the same level, I ask the Minister. Could the Minister indicate how different means of communication are currently being treated differently under the current legal framework? Finally, Mr President, I would also like to hear from the Minister where there is a line between the content of communications and traffic data. Many groups asked questions about this at first reading. As far as legal history is concerned, it seems to my group that the Minister would like to go into this again.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u10	Thank you. Finally, on the side of the Chamber, Mrs Leijten of the SP has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u11	Mr. Chairman. The colleagues said it already: in the first reading, published on 19 August 2017, the House of Representatives and the First Chamber had an exchange of views on neutralising the secret of the letter, in the sense that there is protection on it, however you communicate. That's good. What the SP Group regrets is that breaking that judicial review has been rejected. It was a weakening of this constitutional article. Now the Minister can give an authorisation to lift this confidentiality somewhere. How are people informed about this? Then I come to talk about communication, but also about metadata. That's what the treatment was about last time. But after that, I'm not saying for nothing that it was published in 2017.Of course, considering what kind of data is actually floating around within the government. I wonder then: should we continue to use that data at this time, including the updated data of people and the profiling that has been there? Because it cannot pass the human rights test yet. The Minister and I exchanged this earlier. Is this strengthening of Article 13 in relation to that use not unconstitutional? I would very much like to know. I agree with the questions on the definition of what exactly is the importance of national security. It really makes sense for us to get that sharp. We will also have a revision of the Intelligence and Security Services Act, but it must be clear what that appeal means and when you are or are not protected by the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u12	Thank you. This has put an end to the first term of office. Let me take a look at the Minister about how much time she needs to prepare the answer. Ten minutes. Can we wrap it down to 2:40 p.m.?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u13	I give the floor to the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations to answer in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u14	Mr. Chairman. We have just discussed the foundations of the democratic rule of law in the context of the general provision. The importance of telecommunications secrecy is, of course, one of the most important elements in this process, because when people communicate with each other, they must also be able to expect that they will not be bugged by anyone else. Because in the past we have come up with very old-fashioned concepts such as the word "telegraph," I can well imagine that some members with their children and others have explicitly entered into the conversation: what exactly is that? In all honesty, I also have to say that I do not think I have experienced the time that you could send a telegraph message at the post office. Mr. Chairman. Various questions have been asked about the various aspects of telecommunications secrecy and also about the definition and scope of the concept chosen for this purpose. First of all, I think it is important to say that this really is a technology-neutral concept. With 'telecommunications secrecy' we have really opted for a technology-neutral concept. The question of whether the Minister trusts that with the different forms of communication that we have in the future, this provision is future-proof, is my answer, therefore, that precisely with this provision the protection is made technologically independent. The term "telecommunications" refers to the transmission of information at a distance irrespective of the means used. So, regardless of the means used. The provision shall contain sufficient: together with the letter secret, all means of communication. The phone and telegraph are in the current article. I can give you another example. Now if you ask young people, if they still have a landline, it won't work. And when you bring an old-fashioned phone with a turntable, it is wondered: what is that, what does it serve and what is its purpose? So the telephone and telegraph from the current article, the now well-known messaging services such as Signal and WhatsApp and the electronic and non-electronic means we don't know yet, are covered by this article. A question has also been asked about traffic data and its limitation. I am going a little bit into the technique now, though, for the people who are digitally educated, it is not a technique because Members so strongly asked me to explain it again for the Acts. So in all due care, I'm going to say a few things that may seem a little technical. But since the request was so clear, I'm going to do it anyway. Traffic data do not normally relate to the content of communication. They contain part of personal data, such as the address on a letter or a telephone number. Such personal data shall be protected, however, on the basis of Article 10 of the Constitution. Sometimes traffic data relate to the content of the communication. For example, the text message can not only be referred to as a traffic data but also as content. The content then coincides with the traffic data. In this case, it then offers the protection of Article 13. In both cases there is protection, but only under a different article. The subject line of an e-mail does not fall, as with the text, along with the content, but can provide insight into the content of the message. If it provides an insight into the content of the message, the protection provided for in Article 13 shall apply. Where appropriate, the court will have to determine whether a traffic report is to be protected by Article 10 or Article 13. In concrete cases, the judge can deliver customization. Then an example of a traffic report that isn't personalized. A good example is HTML. That stands for Hypertext Markup Language. HTML is a format language developed for documents and intended to make texts readable for internet and emails. In other words, it is the default language for web pages on the Internet and for email messages. The HTML code behind a message is not directly visible, but it determines the layout of the message sent. For example, HTML allows you to choose paragraphs, bold words or other text colors. The HTML code is therefore only a traffic data because it will only affect the formatting of a text. So an email message can be technically divided into the content of the message, being the personal data, and the formatting of the message, for example HTML, being the traffic data. But when you have a header, a rule of an e-mail, it is true: if it is only technical, it is covered by Article 10, but if it contains content, it is covered by Article 13 of the Constitution. Mr. Chairman. That's the explanation of traffic records.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u15	Do I understand correctly that the Minister is still making a distinction between the traffic data and the content?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u16	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u17	The Minister says that some traffic data do say something about the content and some do not. For example, you also have a location. And you have so many messages and so much information around it that it can be really very sensitive. Then why does the Minister insist on this understanding?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u18	I'm gonna give you a long answer with all due care. I do so knowingly, because that was also a subject of discussion at first reading. The new Article 13 protects the content of the communication, just as the current provision does. The importance of this is, as I have just indicated, that Article 13 seeks to protect private communication without the government secretly listening in or watching through a third party. It follows that traffic data which do not relate to the content of communication is outside the scope of Article 13. Only in so far as traffic data is closely related or coincides with the content of messages, they are covered by Article 13. That is the answer to Mrs Dekker-Abdulaziz's question. Because if it's real traffic records, so is... no. If it's traffic data that's really just about the fact that it's technique or otherwise... No. I will repeat it again, so that we can get it carefully into the Acts. Sometimes that's important, too. If traffic data also concerns personal data or can say something about a person, they fall within the scope of Article 10 of the Constitution. The protection of privacy is not limited to individuals in the private sphere, but also to persons in an office or profession and to legal persons. I am therefore right to answer Mrs Maatoug's question. So the reason why I make the distinction is, as Mrs Dekker-Abdulaziz also points out, on the one hand, the content of the communication, because it is directed and goes from one to the other with a third in between. But sometimes it's just more technical, and sometimes it doesn't come underneath. I will keep that distinction, otherwise you will throw everything under Article 13 of the Constitution and then it will be very broad.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u19	Volt also asked questions about this. What I do not understand is that a lot of experts, a lot of lawyers and also the European regulation do not make that distinction, but the Minister of the Interior still seems to be able to make the distinction. It seems to me that it is much more difficult for the implementation to do as the Minister now describes it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u20	In fact, you can say that the forthcoming e-Privacy Regulation, which Mrs Dekker-Abdulaziz also refers to, and this constitutional amendment complements each other well. Why? Both aim to protect the confidentiality of communications and privacy. The constitutional protection of Article 13 is aimed at a vertical relationship. The citizen is therefore protected from the request of confidential communication from third parties by the government. The e-Privacy Regulation focuses primarily on horizontal relationships, i.e. relationships between people, and focuses on the protection of personal data in electronic communications. It therefore also concerns the protection of citizens against access to data on their electronic communications by private parties. In this sense, therefore, both complement each other, as the Constitution sees vertical relations and the e-Privacy Regulation on the horizontal.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u21	My last interruption. I still don't think we're entirely in agreement, so I want to mark that here. Thank you for the answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u22	Continue your reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u23	I would like to address the question that Mrs Koekkoek asked in the context of the e-Privacy Regulation. The e-Privacy Regulation also protects metadata, she says, and it also seems wider than the protection of Article 13. How does that relate to each other? Article 13 protects the confidentiality of the content of the communication from public access. I am quite consciously saying: the content. The e-Privacy Regulation has a different perspective. This protects privacy and personal data in the use of electronic communications services against access and processing by, in particular, private parties. This makes the e-Privacy Regulation a lex specialise. You have lex generalis and lex specialis and... I see Mrs. Koekkoek nodding, but that stands for general laws and more specific laws. The e-Privacy Regulation is a lex specialise that builds on the General Data Protection Regulation. Where the GDPR lays down general rules on the protection of personal data, the e-Privacy Regulation complements them by introducing more specific rules related to electronic communications. So it is best to see this in relation to our GDPR and that it is a further development. This is also necessary, because the content of the communication is so sensitive. Mrs Koekkoek also asked: does protecting telecommunications also imply a right to encryption for the Minister, or would she not go that far? The objective of Article 13 is really to protect the confidentiality of communications. We have now designed this technology independently. Encryption is a technical way of protecting communication from access by others, along with other ways of protecting you from it. In this sense, it is separate from the legal protection provided by Article 13, because it is a technology-neutral approach and does not prescribe how private parties protect their communications and how they do so. Encryption is one, but of course there are other ways. The point is, you're gonna take care of it in the end, technically neutral. That is why we have opted for this wording. Mr. Chairman. Then a question has been asked about national security. How are we supposed to interpret that concept? That was a question from Mrs Dekker and Mrs Leijten, among others. The concept of national security is one of the objective criteria set out in Article 8 (2) of the European Convention on Human Rights to indicate that an infringement may be legitimised in certain circumstances. With regard to the European Convention on Human Rights, there is a wide margin of appreciation. That's what they call it in English. National authorities can therefore make a broader assessment to fill that concept. It is ultimately up to the judge, the European Court of Human Rights, to determine whether an appeal to the restriction of the Constitution in the field of national security is justified and falls within the scope of the second paragraph of Article 8 of the ECHR. If you look at Dutch policy, you will see that the National Security Strategy establishes the framework of interest for the national security domain. That is what it is written in. It also stipulates that all government partners have joint responsibility for this. The policy, direction and description are in the National Security Strategy. If you're gonna violate it, it's always gonna have to be legal. That is also the point made by Mrs Leijten and Mrs Dekker. That is in the specific legal framework. In dealing with the legislation, it is also important to properly define national security in this context, to check with the ECHR whether an infringement is legitimised in this case and whether it falls within the scope that the ECHR gives to national authorities to do so with each other. In every law, you will have to re-examine whether that has gone well in a legitimate and legally secured way. So you can see how the operationalisation of national security is ultimately regulated. Mr. Chairman. Then Mrs Dekker's question as to whether the content stored in the cloud is also covered by Article 13. The criteria to be met by Article 13 relate to a number of matters. This means using a means of communication, entrusting the content to a third party in charge of transport and possibly intermediate storage, and the focus of communication. Those are the three conditions. The situation in which files are stored in the cloud is similar to our old-fashioned storage of files on an external hard drive, but in the cloud. In this situation, the files rest in the cloud and there is no transport aspect. The moment you save your document on your computer and it is placed in the cloud, there is of course transport and also protection in article 13. So that's the question of just now. However, uploading to and downloading from the cloud requires transport. During transport, the content sent to the cloud is therefore covered by the scope of Article 13. The same applies to the content downloaded from the cloud. It concerns the targeted transmission between two communication points. Perhaps it would be good to give an example of this in this context. When sending data to the cloud, for example, the transport phase is handled by the network of KPN. This is an example; it can of course also be another provider. However, the actual storage of the files takes place in the cloud. In this example, the transport part of KPN is covered by article 13, but when the data is in the cloud, so in the final storage, they are not included. Then they fall under Article 10 of the Constitution. So there is constitutional protection, because that is very important.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u24	One more question to clarify. Actually, two things. Technically, things in the cloud are so-called "constant on the move," because the big companies that store in the cloud move from one data center to another. That is a very clear question. Another question of mine is: what about the e-mails in your exchange accounts, just in your Outlook? You email; you send that email or you don't send it. It's stored somewhere, isn't it? Does that fall under Article 13?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u25	The second question. Of course, that depends on whether the concept e-mail, if you save it, is stored in the cloud. If it is stored in the cloud, it is transported by a third party. In this case, for example, KPN. Then it falls under Article 13. Then from server to server. I do find that an interesting question. In principle, KPN sends it to KPN; you assume that there is no third party in between. I shall come back to that in the second term. I could philosophize about that now, but I think it's good that I'm looking at that from server to server. In addition, we assume that there is no third in between, because if there is a third in between, it is covered by Article 13. Now it is KPN that sends it from one KPN server to another KPN server. If there is another person or provider in between, then you do have communication between two different people and then you also comply with Article 13 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u26	I think it's actually quite complicated. KPN is the transporter, the road, the highway. The cloud will be somewhere else. Then you always have to deal with two providers, because it is not necessarily KPN's cloud, but Facebook's cloud on KPN's network. Can the Minister take that into account in replying to the question in a moment's time?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u27	I will come back to this in second place. In any case, I think it is a nice technical question. It also shows what Mrs Dekker's background is. It's more technical than mine. Mr President, I have answered the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u28	Thank you. I look at the Chamber: is there a need for a second term? A question has remained which could be answered in the second term. We can suspend and then give the Minister the floor, but there is also a question from Mrs Leijten. Let's do it first. Mrs. Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u29	What do we do about the unlawful processing at this time of data that doesn't fit within the government? The Minister hasn't taken that up yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u30	Can Mrs Leijten clarify the question for me once more? I think she referred to a pilot based on the National Approach Address quality.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u31	Well, I mentioned that in the case of laws which are now before us and which should not pose constitutionally in that respect. This is also about metadata. I asked a question about that. The government creates risk profiles for the purpose of combating fraud. We now know that these risk profiles are morally reprehensible. They are discriminatory; those are the words of the Secretary of State who deals with the Tax Administration. These data are still available within the government; they are still being used. According to the Minister, is there any illegality? Is it prepared to stop this unconstitutional way of working?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u32	Mr. Chairman. These are a number of things for me to distinguish for a while. On the one hand, you have the field of risk profiles and other issues, where we have established a framework from the College of Human Rights, even when it comes to drawing up profiles. We are now continuing our work in the organisation to ensure that it is also operationalized, applied in practice, and we are also looking into whether this works in practice. In the case of information which is not in conformity with the General Data Protection Regulation, if that is the question raised by Mrs Leijten, division or its use should only take place for the purpose for which its use is also necessary. So if it's not proportional, if it can't or can't, then I don't think you should use that data in principle. But I'm holding a bit of a swing if I say so now. Perhaps I should come back to this in the second term, because I see to Mrs Leijten that this is not yet the answer to the question she has asked. That's my interpretation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u33	I can also do it again for the next constitutional change, because that is the right to a fair trial. What's that? And do people have that right now? Then I can ask the same question again. Whatever it is that matters to me the moment we say "it's technology"... As soon as data is exchanged, there is letter secret. Then how do you deal with the huge data sharing within the government, where possible violations of fundamental rights are taking place, or are certain?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u34	But if you want to do data sharing, by definition, you always have to comply with the general data regulation, and then there must be goal binding and there must be a legal criterion under it. So that's really the base that there is. And then we have the Personal Data Authority, which supervises that we do so carefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u35	Yes... And the IRS had a black list, which didn't, which was discriminatory, and it's still working on it. The data is shared with third parties. There was therefore neither privacy nor respect for any possible letter secret. There hasn't been one. And that has been widely applied, so from the police to youth care, to the UWV, to the Tax Office, and who else is in between: the FIOD, the Treasury Department. There are lists available of who got that data, which really makes you cold. And they're still working on it. We have here the discussion of an important constitutional article at second reading. When that discussion was at the time, we asked for guarantees: when can people see anything; when can they break it? Well, we've seen that those safeguards weren't there at all at the time of those talks. So how do we deal with that now? Because we can strengthen that Constitution, but it cannot be a dead letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u36	The example that Mrs Leijten puts forward is, in my view, also what was exchanged yesterday if I understood Mrs Leijten correctly in the debate with the Secretary of State for Finance on the lists that exist and are being used. That is data processing; it does not necessarily have to be a telecommunications secret. But I shall come back to this in the second term, because I would also like to give a careful answer to Mrs Leijten. And I feel that, if I answer now, I am not doing justice to the question that Mrs Leijten has asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u37	Thank you. I note that there are at least two things that will come back in the second term. I shall look at the Members one more time, because if there is no need for a second term, then we can also suspend and then give the Minister the floor to answer these questions, if everyone renounces a second term. I see that's the case. Then we suspend for a few moments, and then we give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u38	I give the floor to the Minister of the Interior and Kingdom Relations.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u39	Mr President, thank you. The question put by Mrs Leijten also refers to a motion tabled by Mrs Leijten, in part No. 21, as I understand, on the investigation of risk profiles and the incorrect use of information, and specifically on the aspects of discrimination and privacy. That processing, the execution of the motion, is currently taking place. I understand that this is done under the responsibility of the CIO Empire. The Secretary of State for Digitisation and Kingdom Relations has an important coordinating role in it. In the implementation of those risk profiles, if you encounter one that is discriminatory and violates privacy, it is indeed the intention to remove it. That's what I'm supposed to do. I also asked what "cleaning up" means. That means it can't be used anymore, except sometimes because you still have to be able to make a Wob request, or something like that, but it just needs to be cleaned up. The people to whom it relates should be informed. In that context, I also asked when the next update on the implementation of this motion will come. That's at the end of spring. I will see to it that the exchange of views I have had with Mrs Leijten on this will reach the Secretary of State. Then Mrs Dekker's question about server communication, from server to server. If Facebook communicates to Facebook via KPN, there is a third party involved and then it is indeed Article 13 Constitution. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u40	Thank you. This has put an end to the discussion of this Constitutional proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-5.u41	We propose to vote on this next Tuesday.
