ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-4.u1	The next item is the debate on the speech by Ukrainian President Zelensky. I hope the Prime Minister will join us. I think that's the case. Oh, no, the Prime Minister's not here. No. Correction. I would like to welcome the Foreign Minister, as well as the Minister of Defence, the MPs, the people who are following this debate in the gallery. We agreed on two minutes' speaking time. There is also the possibility of tabling motions, but it is a short debate, because we also have another debate, namely on the evacuation in Afghanistan. I shall first give the floor to Mrs Kamminga of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. We have just heard an impressive and penetrating speech from President Zelensky. It is and remains special that he should address Parliament in these circumstances. I have great respect and appreciation for the way he leads his country in this war and the way he and the Ukrainians fight for their country, their freedom and their future. We continue to condemn Russia's invasion and war crimes with the most powerful terms. Wherever possible, the Netherlands should help to prosecute those responsible for these crimes legally. Through the tragedy with MH17 we know the consequences of Russia's aggression. In the aftermath of this, Ukraine supported us. As far as the VVD is concerned, we must continue to support Ukraine with humanitarian aid, financial aid and military goods. Ukraine demands more and heavier weapons. Is the Netherlands willing to continue to supply them and work creatively with other allies? I'd like a response from the Minister to this. At the same time, we must continue to put pressure on Russia. What steps does the government take to enforce sanctions more effectively, for example by detecting real estate and financial flows? And aren't there any unwanted holes in the current sanction packages? Or can we exclude Russian investment even more, for example, from European procurement and in the energy sector, especially in the case of nuclear energy? Mr. Chairman. The last few days there's been hope for a tipping point. Russia seems to have abandoned the intake of Kiev and seems to be prepared to make concessions, especially in relation to the towering demands at the start of the war. At the same time, there is a risk that Russia will only relocate troops for the reinforced offensive in Eastern Ukraine. How's the minister looking at this? After the last few months, there is an important lesson for the VVD: words from Russia are worth little. It's really about action. Finally. The war in Ukraine is more at stake. It is about the freedom and security of Europe and about the values and principles in our future world order. By investing more in defence, making ourselves economically less vulnerable and remaining united and working together with allies, we must ensure that our free and safe society remains proud. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-4.u3	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Ploumen of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-4.u4	Mr. Chairman. President Zelensky just managed to hit us with every word. With the terrible images of the war in Ukraine in mind, his words leave a deep, deep impression. He is leading us in the fight for our shared values, the fight for freedom, for democracy. Under his leadership, the brave Ukrainians have been fighting Putin's inconsequential violence for over a month. The Ukrainians are fighting for the survival of their country, for everything they love, for their freedom, but also for our freedom, which we have been able and allowed to take for granted on our continent for as long as possible. Mr. Chairman. President Zelensky has a clear message to us here in the Netherlands: the tyranny must be lost. Sanctions bring Putin's war machine to a halt and increase the pressure to refrain from further violence. Where the cabinet has taken an active and constructive role in announcing the unprecedented sanctions, and that is very commendable.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The approach to Russia's interests in the Zuidas has been slow. Russian real estate in the Netherlands is left untouched and imports of Russian oil do not decline, despite a clear mandate from the Chamber to the Cabinet. That can no longer be explained, not to President Zelensky, not to the Ukrainian and not to ourselves. That is why I would like to put forward the next motion to encourage the cabinet to make real progress on these sanctions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that possessions and a large proportion of the assets of Russians placed on penalty lists have so far been left untouched in the Netherlands;]] [[calls on the cabinet to freeze and confiscate these assets and assets where possible and to report to the Chamber on progress within two weeks,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ploumen and Mr Klaver.]] [[She's getting No. kst-36045-46]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-4.u5	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mrs Agnes Mulder, CDA
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-4.u6	Mr. Chairman. We have just heard the words of President Zelensky, here in our own national parliament. An historic moment. His words touch us, as well as the words of our fellow MEPs last Tuesday and the words of our Ukrainian ambassador here in the Netherlands. The images of innocent inhabitants who are the victims of Putin's aggression are horrible. They're engraved in our memories. Of course, Ukraine has every right to defend itself. That also justifies us sending military equipment that way. We ask the Minister if she can make any further contribution to this. Zelensky is also right to ask whether there are even stronger sanctions with him. We are, of course, talking about frozen assets, Russian real estate and perhaps closing European ports. And then international law, for which the Netherlands is known. There, too, steps have been taken by this Minister. We need an evidence bank so that all those war criminals and war crimes are dealt with in the future. International law is one of us. And then there's humanitarian aid. We believe it is important that there should be reconstruction in Ukraine in the near future. The example given by the President, choosing a city or village to help build it, I think is a wonderful, beautiful idea. I also think that the Rijksbouwmeester and the Rijksbouwgoedbedrijf could play a role in this. I would like a reply from the Ministers to this thought. Furthermore, our thoughts go out to the families who are currently suffering so much from the war. We pray for them to find the strength they need in these dark times, thinking of tolerance, respect, freedom, democracy, diversity and religion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-4.u7	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Sjoerdsma, D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-4.u8	Mr. Chairman. President Zelensky just spoke words that will reverberate in this Parliament for a long time to come. The distance between Kiev and The Hague disappeared for a while and the war tension became palpable. He said, "The hard fought peace was destroyed in one moment and now we must fight hard again." That is also our fight and that is why we need to do more, first and foremost military. President Zelensky asked for stingers and air defenses. My question to the Minister of Defence is what more can the Netherlands, European allies and NATO allies can do about it. Slovakia and Turkey have S-300 air defense systems, which are desperately needed, but they want NATO guarantees first before they are prepared to deliver them. Is the Netherlands prepared to commit itself for a long time to strengthening the eastern flank so that Slovakia can steer those systems? Sanctions: Will the State actually work with the Land Registry to deal with houses, yachts and other property and will the holes in the sanction law be closed, as the Chamber asked last week? Finally, Mr President. Of course, the Copenhagen criteria apply in full, but just now, also listening to President Zelensky's appeal, a European perspective for Ukraine on candidate membership is being called for. I think we should be willing to do so. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Mostly that Ukraine belongs to our European family;]] [[Mainly full compliance with the Copenhagen criteria;]] [[calls on the Government to agree to the status of candidate country for Ukraine,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Sjoerdsma.]] [[She's getting No. kst-36045-47]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-4.u9	Because let's be clear: Rotterdam is Marioepol and Marioepol is Rotterdam. The freedom of the Ukrainians is our freedom and the peace and security of Ukraine is the peace and security of this continent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-4.u10	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Klaver, GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-4.u11	"36 days of war and people are getting used to it." Those are the words that lingered on me: "people are getting used to it." But that does not apply to those who have to fear for their lives every day and fear for the lives of their family members. The cold truth is that the longer this war lasts, he'll get used to it and there will be other topics on the agenda. It is the responsibility of all of us not to let that happen. This war isn't over soon, unfortunately. It's a marathon. Russia will test our stamina. If we really mean our words and stand next to Ukraine, we need to step up as quickly as possible. They are fighting there with danger for their own lives for their freedom and ours. That requires a greater commitment. This calls for a sacrifice here in contrast to what the Ukrainians themselves are doing. Zelensky called for a stop to trade with Russia and to stop importing fossil fuels. That's going to have a huge impact on our economy. That's gonna have a huge impact on our lives. But the impact that that has on us is only a fraction of what people in Ukraine are experiencing. If we really mean that the distance between Kiev and The Hague is gone, we will continue to do so, regardless of the economic consequences that that has for us. I saw a state out of The New York Times of how much money we're spending on that right now. Since the war started, we have not sent less money to Russia to buy fossil fuels, but more. That money is used directly to buy weapons to use in Ukraine. That's gotta stop. Mr. Chairman. I have one motion I'd like to read to you. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas a plan describing the phasing-out of Russian fossil energy was presented in Germany on 25 March;]] [[calls on the cabinet to present a concrete phasing-out plan to the Chamber before 1 May which describes the Dutch phasing-out of Russian oil, gas and coal, including a corresponding timetable,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Klaver, Mr Piri and Mr Ploumen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-36045-48]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-4.u12	This motion was co-signed by Mr Piri. And, Mr President, all my PvdA colleagues are equally dear to me, but the motion is also co-signed by Mr Ploumen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-4.u13	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mr Ceder. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-4.u14	Mr. Chairman. Are we already familiar with the images of war, with the images of refugees who have to leave home and fireplace and with the images of totally devastated cities on the continent of Europe? Zelensky asked us this question today during his impressive speech. I was reminded of a simple prayer: bless us all with unrest, unrest to stand firm for universal values such as peace, freedom and justice, for even the smallest candle brings light during the tidal wave of darkness. Let us therefore, as the Netherlands and as the Dutch within our ability, be that light in Europe and in the world. The Russian invasion is not only terrible for Ukraine, but also threatens to destabilise the EU and its Member States. That is why it is important, as far as the Christian Union is concerned, to fully support Ukraine in its fight against Putin and Russia. Mr. Chairman. We can do this, for example, by means of strong sanctions. However, the enforcement of sanctions is becoming difficult in the Netherlands. That's painful. What else can we do? Think of real estate and closing ports. And what about possessions stored in other parts of our kingdom? How firm is our commitment to sanctions? Mr. Chairman. President Zelensky asked us for weapons, stingers and other weapons. What can we do together with other Member States to help them defend themselves? Mr. Chairman. Countries like Lithuania are already gathering evidence of war crimes. I have a specific question: can we join this initiative, which has already been launched? Mr. Chairman. I am thinking now of reconstruction, because this war too will end someday. Can we also, as President Zelensky just asked, see if we can prepare ourselves, for example, to devote ourselves to and show commitment to building one or more cities? Can we seriously consider this proposal? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-4.u15	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Eppink, JA21.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-4.u16	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank President Zelensky for his speech. He is brave and has achieved something Putin never expected: a Ukraine with a national self-consciousness. Let us hope that a process of negotiation offers a way out of this terrible war. I want to make two points. The commitment of this struggle is freedom. Freedom of information is essential. The EU has banned the activity of Russia Today. This transmitter, which is of course very pro-Russian, has a low viewing density. Russia has banned Western media channels such as Facebook, BBC, Deutsche Welle and Radio Free Europe. For example, Russian citizens, especially young people, were cut off from important information channels. Now all they have left is state propaganda. My question to the Minister is: was the closing of information channels, albeit in retrospect, wise? Second. The Netherlands is at the cradle of international law. In times of war, humanitarian war law must limit military violence and violence, precisely in order to protect civilians, children, wounded and prisoners of war. This area is covered by Geneva Conventions. There is a humanitarian war law platform in the Netherlands. War crimes soldiers must not be allowed to go free. The Hague has been the seat of the International Criminal Court since 2002, which operates on the basis of the Rome Statute of 1998. In accordance with Article 5, war crimes shall be within its jurisdiction. In the meantime, the criminal court has opened an investigation. My question to the Minister is: does the Minister see this legal trail as an opportunity to limit power with justice? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-4.u17	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Dassen, Volt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-4.u18	Mr. Chairman. President Zelensky spoke to us against the backdrop of an ink black reality. Putin is threatening our free democracies. The Ukrainian President addressed us as Europeans who share the same values they have been fighting for for weeks: freedom, democracy, tolerance and respect. As part of the European family, Ukraine deserves every support. Volt is therefore also in favour of granting Ukraine candidate membership, so that it can be guaranteed funding and additional support for the democratic reconstruction of the country after the war. As the President said, our EU membership depends on you. I am also very pleased with the motion that Mr Sjoerdsma has just tabled. As far as military support is concerned, Zelensky is asking for more stingers to be delivered. Can the Minister undertake to do so? But Zelensky is also asking for heavier sanctions to be imposed. The Italians are under the spell of a 700 million-dollar yacht that is chained up and in the meantime we are still polling in the Netherlands about who is responsible for the investigation of Russian real estate. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it is still unclear who to track down Russian real estate;]] [[calls on the Government to join the Transatlantic Task Force,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Dassen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-36045-49]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-4.u19	I want to end with the importance of humanitarian aid. Putin is also targeting civilian targets. Citizens are directly affected, displaced or have no access to water, food and electricity. We all know the footage from Marioepol. How is the Netherlands going to ensure that food and petrol come in distress from people in Marioepol and other cities and can the Dutch drone program Wings For Aid be used for this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-4.u20	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Van Haga, Group Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-4.u21	Mr. Chairman. BVNL strongly condemns Russia's invasion of sovereign Ukraine. Neither the Ukrainian people nor the Russian people want this war. War is waged by presidents and not by the people, by Putin, Zelensky, Biden and Von der Leyen. That is why BVNL wants the Netherlands to remain neutral. That is why BVNL is against supplying weapons. That is why BVNL is against the escalating language of war in our cabinet. Therefore, BVNL is against the sanctions that hit the Russian people hard and further destabilise world peace. Of course, we support diplomatic actions and we must provide humanitarian aid where necessary. Mr President, I have two further motions for resolutions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government at the NATO summit to express its appreciation for Zelensky, who wants to take a neutral position and renounce NATO membership for the sake of peace,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas NATO is based on a defensive principle;]] [[calls on the Government to call on NATO members to avoid escalating language,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga.]] [[She's getting No. kst-36045-50]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga.]] [[She's getting No. kst-36045-51]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-4.u22	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-4.u23	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Teunissen, Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-4.u24	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We just listened to a president whose country was brutally attacked. We strongly condemn Russian aggression. Zelensky's call for heavier sanctions is in line with what many colleagues in this house and also the Animal Party have repeatedly stressed, namely that sanctions must actually affect and isolate Putin and the oligarchs around him. The sanctions must also be enforced more effectively. More than a month after the announcement of sanctions against Russia, it is still unclear who Russian real estate should be tracking down in the Netherlands. That's unacceptable. It is still possible to trade with Russia. That's unacceptable. Without drying up the money flow for Russian fossil fuels, the Netherlands will continue to co-finance the war and that is immoral. If we don't want to prolong the war, we need a boycott on all Russian oil, coal and gas. The Netherlands, together with a number of other countries, can take the lead. By switching industries, saving energy and accelerating deployment on sustainable sources, we can stop funding Putin's war. That's why I have the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas, as a result of imports of Russian coal, oil and gas, the Netherlands is transferring billions annually to Russia and is still co-financing Putin's war chest;]] [[Whereas more severe sanctions are needed to isolate Putin;]] [[Whereas the Cabinet may use instruments to prevent households and essential facilities from being affected by a possible shortage of gas, coal and oil, such as the Gas Protection and Recovery Plan and a national energy saving plan;]] [[calls on the government immediately to announce a boycott for imports of Russian oil, coal and gas,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Teunissen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-36045-52]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-4.u25	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-4.u26	Thank you. I shall now give the floor to Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-4.u27	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is impressive to see a president of a country hit by a Russian invasion, where the tanks, the planes constantly bomb the people and appeal to us. Since I only have one minute's speaking time, I should like to get straight to the point: the sanctions. A motion was passed here a week ago to ensure within 48 hours that data from the Tax Administration are used for sanctions on the oligarchs. That might sound technical. These oligarchs have probably run tens of billions through the Netherlands and of that only one fráction has been frozen. Yours and mine, I say to the ministers and parliamentarians, tax data can be used for anything, but because of privacy we do not use that data. The Chamber asked: arrange it within 48 hours. Why is that so important when it comes to sanctions? Well, because people do everything they can to avoid them. When will this motion finally be implemented? And do you have any questions in the Chamber? I had asked them to answer before today: what about real estate, what about boats, because it cannot be true that, when bombed there for 36 days, we cannot even exchange the data between the Ministry of Finance and DNB. I'd like an answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-4.u28	Thank you. I give the floor to Mr Kuzu, DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-4.u29	Mr. Chairman. On 14 May, in such a small month and a half, we commemorate the bombing of Rotterdam every year in Rotterdam. President Zelensky said it very strikingly in his speech just now: Rotterdam's shadow hangs over many European cities. Mr. Chairman. The Ukrainian people pay the ultimate price for freedom and democracy with their own lives and the lives of their loved ones, fathers, mothers, uncles, aunts, brothers and sisters who have to repay it. Whole villages and cities have become ashes. Putin has only one goal: to wipe Ukraine off the map and to demote its history and culture to a footnote in the history books. The Ukrainian people are fighting not only for themselves, but also for the idea of freedom for the whole European continent. It is a crushing burden which they did not ask for. They are at war for a European continent that cares more about warming up its houses with Russian gas than about Ukrainian children who have to die from Russian bombs and hunger. Are we therefore prepared, as President Zelensky calls, to boycott energy from Russia? Mr. Chairman. Putin's dream is a new Russian dominance over Ukraine that must be achieved at all costs. We all know that it is necessary to use the strongest possible measures against Russia, even if it hurts us. Russia's aggressive action must have consequences. Addressing the Russians in the air is becoming increasingly urgent by the attacks on civilian targets with cruise missiles. I ask our ministers whether it is possible to facilitate this without escalating further. Mr. Chairman. In conclusion, I have a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that Ukrainian President Zelensky called for the reconstruction of a Ukrainian city after the war;]] [[calls on the Government to embrace this proposal from President Zelensky and to prepare plans to contribute to the reconstruction of a Ukrainian city after the war,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kuzu.]] [[She's getting No. kst-36045-53]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-4.u30	Mr. Chairman. That was an impressive speech from a warrior president. The Ukrainians deserve all the support because of Putin's ruthless war against them. It is very important that a ceasefire is reached so that bloodshed can be stopped. Despite the heavy attacks, some progress seems to be made in the negotiations in Istanbul. What is the latest state of affairs, in particular when it comes to talks about the Donbas region, Crimea and the possible neutrality of Ukraine? Is it true that progress is being made in these areas? What can the Netherlands contribute to strengthening and facilitating the negotiation process? The response to Russian aggression is an effective sanction package for the rich Russian oligarchs. More can be done on this point. We keep hearing that the Netherlands is bumping behind, that oligarchs are given too much space to escape these sanctions. This week, a message came about confiscating real estate and other business. The government is then far too passive and only looks at new real estate transactions. But the government must of course look at all the transactions, at all the real estate, including the purchases that have been made in the past. Does the government share this view and take action on this issue? It's really essential that you don't let the elite squeal. Keep Russians from hiding their possessions. Finally, a look ahead. Should there be a truce, which would be great, is there a de-escalation plan? Is the Netherlands prepared to help Ukraine rebuild, with the rule of law and with the reconstruction of a specific city, such as Marioepol? Can the Netherlands contribute to a so-called Ukraine tribunal in The Hague, the city of international law?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-4.u31	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Van der Plas, BBB.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-4.u32	Thank you, President, citizens and in particular the relatives of the victims of the MH17, who are in fact among the earliest victims of this Russian war of aggression. Especially for you, President Zelensky's speech and the war in particular must evoke many emotions. President Zelensky has shown us over the past month that freedom, sovereignty and democracy are not self-evident. When he called on his country to defend himself against Russian aggression, millions of Ukrainians, men and women, young and old, stood up for their country, their young democracy and their freedom. I have enormous respect for the Ukrainian people. I hope they know that the Netherlands supports their struggle. President Zelensky once again made it crystal clear that there is a food crisis. Ukrainian farms lie still and the Russian advance destroys fertile land. There's a threat of famine. He does see how important agriculture is. The Netherlands can learn a lot from him in that respect, because here we buy farmers out and threaten to expropriate. He is also right to ask for Russia's money flows to be dealt with in our country. The Netherlands has frozen a lousy 400 million in Russian money. Belgium has frozen 10 billion, while in the Netherlands we have a vladivostok on the A2, the Zuidas. It is a goddess towards the Ukrainian people who left our cabinet Putin's friends on their Dutch mountains of gold, while my motion was passed a month ago. I noticed that Zelensky addressed our Prime Minister personally about joining the EU, as a friend. We have to be careful with this. Zelensky represents Ukraine and our Prime Minister the Dutch interest. BBB believes that Ukraine should follow a careful procedure for accession to the European Union and meet the Copenhagen criteria. That is not to bully Zelensky, but to prevent administrative, social and economic chaos in both the EU and Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-4.u33	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Van der Staaij, SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-4.u34	Madam President. When President Zelensky repeatedly spoke in his intrusive speech about fighting tyranny, I must not have been the only one who immediately thought of the words of our national anthem: "exorcising the tyranny that wounds my heart." Indeed, Ukraine in the heart is wounded by that tyranny. The words of President Zelensky bring that closer and you can see how war gets a gruesome face in looting, in rapes, in cities being bombed, in people being starved. In one word, horrible. It's tyranny that's hurting the heart. At the same time, President Zelensky rightly warned: beware that it doesn't get used to it, beware that attention doesn't slacken. Anyone who lets the history of all countries and continents work in any way can see that it is a real danger that this attention can be weakened. That is why the SGP Group is also pleading for perseverance, for continuing to support the Ukrainian people who are defending themselves against Russian aggression and a legitimate struggle for freedom. I assume that the government will continue to do whatever is necessary, including in terms of arms support, sanctions and making ourselves serious about increasing our defence efforts. Indeed, we should not slacken in that too. It is heartwarming what is happening in the field of humanitarian aid, by the government, but also from the people themselves. I also thought it was a good idea to consider whether we could adopt an area, a city, as it were, and focus our efforts on it. I'd like to hear the government's reaction to that. Mr. Chairman. Finally. Exorcising tyranny is a task that requires action, but in our national anthem is also part of a prayer: "My shield and trusting are Thou, O God my Lord; on Thee so will I build, never forsake me." For example, in Ukraine and in the Netherlands and in many other countries, we are now praying for courage and strength for all those affected by this terrible war, but also for wisdom for all those who are committed to the expulsion of tyranny, for peace and for justice, in the firm confidence that tyranny never has the last word. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-4.u35	Thank you. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Fritsma, PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-4.u36	Mr President, thank you. The Chamber met this morning for a special occasion. We were addressed by a president of a country at war, Mr. Volodymyr Zelensky. It was a speech by a determined leader, a leader who, under all the violence of war that hits his country, has courage and a great deal of courage. In doing so, he delivers exactly what his country needs and thus strengthens the resilience of his country. After five weeks of war, this resilience is still very strong. The Russian invasion, which was also strongly condemned by the PVV group, did not bring the country down. The most important thing now is to work for peace and a solution to this conflict, so that the suffering of the Ukrainian people stops as soon as possible. I would therefore like to hear from the cabinet what role the Netherlands and our alliances can play in supporting this very necessary peace process. I can leave it at that, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-4.u37	Thank you, Mr. Fritsma. The cabinet has indicated that it takes about 20 minutes to prepare itself. I'm suspending the meeting until about 12:15.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-4.u38	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the speech by Ukrainian President Zelensky. I give the floor to the Foreign Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-4.u39	Thank you, Mr President. I've heard Zelensky speak several times. I have also heard the Foreign Minister Kuleba speak several times in European gremia and in NATO-Gremia. But again today it was extremely impressive to hear him talk about what is going on in his country, how heartbreaking that is and how terrible it is what we see passing through the media. But at the same time, it's admirable. It is admirable how the government and the people there are willing to literally put everything at risk to defend their country. It has made a great impression on me, on the cabinet and, as I see it, on the Chamber, to hear him say that again here in the Chamber. It was very impressive. Let me speak for how I am doing, but I believe that this also applies to many of us here. This means that every time you ask yourself the question: what more can we do and how can we do more in the areas of arms, diplomacy, humanitarian aid, refugee reception, economic support and sanctions? How can you help him, his government and his people, precisely because they are literally fighting for their lives, but also for the stability, peace and security of our entire continent? So again, it was very, very impressive. Let that also be an appeal to us when it comes to showing that same determination and maintaining unity in Europe and within NATO. Mr. Chairman. I will answer the various questions as best I can. Of course, I am doing this together with the Minister of Defence, who will, in particular, be responsible for the military part. Mr. Chairman. I start with everything that has to do with diplomacy and, in good Dutch, accountability, and with the legal side. I believe it was the VVD and the SP who specifically asked: what about the negotiations in Istanbul? In any case, Mr Van Dijk asked, but I think Mrs Kamminga and perhaps others too. Let me say something about that in general, because it has something rather uncomfortable. I deliberately choose not to comment on the various pieces that come to us in the Chamber and in the media. I do, because I want to keep things from floating... Things have been floating in the media for a long time. Sometimes this is obvious from the Russian side, but sometimes it is done by others. If we, as well as others, were to comment and say'maybe so', we would run the risk of potentially sanctioning some of these things and of affecting the negotiations in a negative way. Our mission is, of course, to do the utmost to make Ukraine's position at the negotiating table as strong as possible. My observation is that at least two things are needed for this from the Netherlands and from the West. It is very simple in such a negotiation: the stronger you stand on the battlefield, the stronger you stand at the negotiating table. The Secretary of Defense will say more about it in a moment. That means that we, together with a lot of countries, are also trying to see that more widely in the diplomatic contacts I have, realize that we must continue to supply weapons and that we must not let ourselves be tempted to think that we should stop doing so, because we are talking about them now. It is exactly the other way around: the stronger on the battlefield, the stronger at the negotiating table. Then the second. At such a negotiating table we know that too, fortunately in a completely different context, in the interior............................................................................................................................................. Those sanctions do hurt, don't they? So continuing with sanctions and ensuring that we hit Putin's entourage and Russia, is potentially helping Ukraine's position at the negotiating table. Not only do I say that, but so does my colleague Kuleba. It is therefore a somewhat long answer to Mr Van Dijk's question. I understand his question about Istanbul very well. Once again, I am in contact with a number of colleagues, particularly from Israel, but I also have a lot of contact with my colleague from Turkey and from Ukraine itself. Of course, I am also in contact with the larger countries that follow all of this and that can occasionally think along with it. But I am actually trying to point it out as little as possible, regardless of the fact that we, the Netherlands, are also very clearly committed to that diplomatic trail. Of course, we want to give it a maximum chance, as long as Ukraine is not forced to say yes to something later, where it is actually turning in all kinds of things that one should not have to turn in in any way. Mr. Chairman. I take advantage of Mr Van Dijk's question to add one more notion. I think it is important to say that here too. I said this earlier this week in the media and perhaps in one of the committees, but I would like to emphasise this here. It cannot be that if Ukraine comes to an agreement, hopefully under good conditions, then we as the West will automatically say: and now everything is forgiven and forgotten. For then thousands of victims have been killed, billions have been damaged, international law has been trampled underfoot and everything we stand for when it comes to the rule of law has just been pushed aside by Putin and his entourage. So now I can't predict how we'll proceed. Then too, unity in Europe and with our friends and friends in North America and Great Britain is of great importance, but it is true that we will have to talk again about how we are going to relate to Russia. I would just like to say this, with apologies to Mr Van Dijk for using him as a coat rack for this somewhat longer presentation. Mrs. Mulder asked about the evidence collection. We very much advocated that. We also support the ICC's investigation. We have indicated that we co-finance the OHCHR research committee. This also means that there is a strong evidence mandate, partly thanks to the Netherlands. We will continue to make every effort to do so. Mr Eppink asked with a very nice wording: shouldn't the law frame power? Absolutely. It is not for nothing that the Netherlands is one of the countries, also given our position and our limited format, which for decades have been largely reliant on law, international law. That is exactly what needs to be done here; no peace without justice. So on the track that we are using through the ICC, the International Court of Justice, that committee of inquiry, that's all essential, we're definitely going on. Mr Ceder asked: are we dealing with other countries too? Absolutely. I always mention this point in the bilateral contacts I have. Of course, everyone in the ministry does so and so do all ambassadors. But I was in Slovakia and the Czech Republic yesterday. This is, of course, about the various aspects of the war, but that is what I call very explicit: the war will soon be over, but then we must have already started collecting evidence. Because we will have to ensure that those who have done so are held responsible for this. Mr. Chairman. Perhaps one last comment in the category of diplomacy. The great challenge in this conflict, but also in everything that is going to bring about this conflict, will be that we, as a country, as a Union and with our North American partners, work on the following. It is about continuing to articulate the need to act against this, but also about the great importance of democracy, the rule of law and the respect of everyone's borders. We must do so in the direction of the 141 voters in the United Nations. 'Cause, yeah, there's a group that's just as hard on it as we are on it. But there's also a soft underbelly in it. There is also a group of countries that could potentially become wobbly, especially if this kind of thing lasts longer. And then there is the diplomatic challenge to talk to the 35 countries that have chosen not to condemn this, but to take an intermediate position, for their miraculous reasons. That is precisely where we need to engage in dialogue, to explain to them that it is ultimately in their interests and in the interests of the world community that we condemn this, and that this is a litmus test of the credibility of the way in which the international community operates. Mr. Chairman. That's all in the first block.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-4.u40	There is an interruption by Mr Klaver van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-4.u41	The Minister is right to outline a somewhat broader context. I am very pleased with that, because this war in Ukraine has a much greater impact on the world. Then it's about how China behaves and what it means for the position of Southeast Asia. But there is also a famine that is threatening in Africa, and there are consequences that this can have for Europe, when I look at refugees, not to mention the terrible suffering of the people there. How does the Minister relate to this? What's he doing? How does he relate to these major issues on the world stage?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-4.u42	It is quite right that Mr Klaver should touch that. You need to look not only at what Ukraine produces, but also at what Russia produces. What Russia produces may one day be used as a geopolitical instrument. In those numbers, you can see that the world, and certainly these African parts of the world, depend to a large extent on Ukraine and Russia producing grain and other things of vital importance. There are several predictions as to whether this will mainly have price effects or also scarcity effects. Even price effects could cause serious problems for vulnerable countries in Africa. Minister Schreinemacher is working on that. She speaks about it in all kinds of gremiah. This is also increasingly a geopolitical issue. We will have to relate to that. We will have to take care of those who are already vulnerable. I think that is what Mr Klaver's question is about. You want to prevent major powers on earth who do not share our views on democracy and human rights from using the scarcity and the difficult position in which African countries end up, for example, and then withdraw them more. It is always difficult to make predictions, but it is very possible that we are facing a phase in which countries in Africa and Asia that are on the verge of getting into a difficult position, for example in terms of food supply, are at risk of falling for the temptations that are directed at them from Moscow and from other places. This may also apply to countries in South America, although I am less afraid of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-4.u43	I think Moscow's potential is limited now. I'm mainly looking at what China can do with its ChinaAid. The map shows that many countries on the African continent abstained from voting in the UN resolution. This requires not only an analysis or understanding of the fact that something is happening there, but also action. As soon as we say that extra money is needed for the Defense Department, you can say the same about development cooperation. There is not a day to lose in that. If we have the illusion that China is sitting still now: that is not the case. China is already on that stage. That is why I would like to know from the Minister when the Chamber will be informed about how we are going to make a greater effort and whether additional funds will be allocated where necessary. We need immediate emergency aid. Given the refugee challenge we already have in Europe, this cannot all come from existing budgets. Is the cabinet willing, if necessary, to draw the wallet for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-4.u44	Let me cut it into two things, to do justice to the broad point that I very much share with Mr Klaver. I am optimistic, because 141 countries have said they condemn this. But Mr Klaver is quite right. Between these 35 countries there are very large countries, which are developing into regional or even global superpowers. China is on that list, like India and Pakistan. That list contains a large number of countries which, for their magical reasons, have made this choice. It's not for nothing that I and many others talk to them and try to excite them for another position. You have to take into account exactly that scenario that Mr Klaver sketches. This may also require more from the Netherlands. Moreover, I do not think that this falls into the category of development cooperation. I think you're entering a new phase in geopolitical and broader support. Is that a new cold war? Probably not. You are entering a new phase in which you can reach these countries through soft power. In this debate, I cannot indicate exactly what the cabinet is going to do and how we may also make additional resources available for it. I heard Mr. Klaver right. So let me promise him we'll come back to that. Minister Schreinemacher will do that, and I will. How we do that, I can't answer now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-4.u45	Mr Klaver, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-4.u46	Yeah, finally. Well, there's a lot of time for this. As far as possible, we must try to take the lead and not react every time. I would therefore be pleased if the Chamber could be informed of this in a more detailed letter within a week or three, or at least before May. The Minister says: it is not just about development cooperation; this is geopolitics. In our arsenal of foreign policy we have a number of means that we can use. There is now rightly a great emphasis on defence and increasing spending there. There is rightly a strong emphasis on the use of diplomatic means. But development cooperation is also a means that we must use in our diplomatic arsenal and in how we move on that world stage. I would really like to call for all these resources and also the mix of resources to be used and to inform the Mayace Chamber in a somewhat more comprehensive letter about how we are doing this, especially in Southeast Asia and what is happening on the African continent, especially in view of the acute famines that are threatening there.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-4.u47	That's exactly what I heard. At the same time, I hope that Mr Klaver also understands that this calls, particularly as specifically as he says, for further cabinet meetings. Three weeks seems feasible to me. So let me promise him that. If it takes more time, I will inform the Chamber. I would like to retain some flexibility in who writes that letter, because there are several components to this story. But I have heard him correctly, and this is also, to a large extent, in the direction the cabinet proposes itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-4.u48	Last week at the Interparliamentary Union Conference, a conference between parliaments, I saw the image that the Minister sketches of this somewhat softer underbelly. There too we talked about Ukraine. Then you will indeed notice that the Russian arm can reach quite far. That's what I'm worried about. So I think it is very important that we do not loosen up here. One of the points on which you can make a concrete contribution, and which I also raised in a previous plenary debate on this subject, is how we deal with the supply of cereals in Europe. What is the European plan that is being written for it now, while it is still possible to sow in? I asked this question weeks ago, and I received a commitment from the cabinet that the Minister of LNV would find an answer to this in Europe, because we cannot do this alone as the Netherlands. I am very curious about that answer, because this is so urgent.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-4.u49	I will then try to give that answer in the second term or at least to indicate what is going on with this process, because I understand that this is urgent.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-4.u50	There's no second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-4.u51	Oh, there's no second term. Then I'm gonna...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-4.u52	I have a suggestion. I think we will have another debate or something in writing on the Foreign Affairs Council next Tuesday. Can we get a commitment to report what has happened to it so far?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-4.u53	Here's what we're gonna do. There's always a careful listening to what I'm saying here. I may be able to answer the question during this debate. Otherwise, I admit to Mrs Mulder that I will take this into account in one of the written documents that I will be sharing with the Chamber in the next few days, or that I will ask the Minister of LNV to resolve this within a week and a half, I think. If this can be accepted by Mrs Mulder, we will do so, but perhaps I will come back to this orally. Mr. Chairman. Then there are some things about sanctions. The House is right to pay a great deal of attention to this. The cabinet also pays a lot of attention to this. Of course there are many leaders involved, but I really want to say to the Chamber that this is a responsibility that we feel in full breadth and with which we are also working. The Prime Minister said a number of things about this last week, but let me stress a few things for my part. There's a lot of hard work in all kinds of departments to do their own thing. Finance is therefore working on the financial assets, Home Affairs with the real estate, Justice and Security with the notaries and the lawyers, IenW with the ports and the yachts. The prosecution and the FIOD are also active, as we saw last week with the seizure of the 137 million. What we are doing from the State Department is negotiating effective sanctions in Brussels, including possible new sanctions. I would like to stress to the House once again that our position and my position is that everything is really negotiable for the Netherlands. We didn't explain anything outside of hooks. I have always stressed to the various colleagues that the Netherlands is in principle prepared to talk about everything, but that the importance of this unity in Europe is crucial. So we have to keep it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-4.u54	There's been an interruption from Mrs...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-4.u55	I've introduced some more things, but that...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-4.u56	I'd like you to finish your speech first.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-4.u57	In addition, it is good to emphasise that operational responsibility sometimes lies with implementing bodies, but also with the various ministries. In addition, we have the steering committee with all those departments as the State Department. Perhaps that is also an answer to Mrs Ploumen. We will also discuss this tomorrow in the Cabinet. Next week we want to share with the Chamber with whom exactly each of those documents is housed. Some of it I just named, but we want to make sure there's no white stains left. It can be guessed that Finance is responsible for the financial, BZK for the real estate and Justice for the notary and, of course, for the criminal side. I want to do it very precisely, also towards the Chamber, because I notice that it raises a lot of questions. In the shortest possible time, I think shortly after the weekend, a letter will come about to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-4.u58	It is good that the Minister states that the Netherlands is committed to stricter sanctions. I think that is also the wish of this Chamber, so it is a good thing that it is being implemented. But if the same Netherlands lags so shamelessly behind in the implementation of these sanctions, does he agree with me that that undermines our position in this? That is why it would be important to speed things up.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-4.u59	I think it's both true. My impression is that the various departments are really working very hard. For example, the comparison with Belgium has appeared in the newspaper earlier. Because Belgium is more a turntable of financial and economic transactions, this comparison with the Netherlands was somewhat unfortunate in the media. So I very much agree with Mrs Ploumen that it is both important. Not only do we have to agree on sanctions, but then we have to operationalise them in all the Member States, of course also in the Netherlands. Let me stress that the cabinet really feels that this is a great responsibility. It is precisely in order to prevent us from leaving pieces unsavory that one of the sub-Councils held discussions on this matter last Tuesday. We'll play that game tomorrow. We hope that at the beginning of the week we can send the total overview to the Chamber. We will also keep the Chamber informed of progress. That was also one of Mrs Ploumen's questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-4.u60	I would nevertheless like to inform the Minister that the image which is now emerging from his speech is, by the way, thank you for the endless poldering and consultation between ministries, and that apparently no one takes the lead there and says: 'Dear people, this has been agreed on weeks ago'. We're just shamelessly behind as the Netherlands. When I hear the minister like that, looking for the last white stain is a major obstacle to dealing with the real estate, the boats and the possessions of the Russians. One, shouldn't someone in the cabinet just take the lead and say, "We're gonna do this now?" And two, does the Minister agree with me that this has been going on for far too long and that this is not the time for poldering between ministries?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-4.u61	No, and if I've summoned that image, I'd like to take it away immediately. Departments have immediately started working on pieces of the puzzle, so they have been working on it for a long time, see also the debate I have been having with the Chamber for a number of weeks. I know, for example, that those responsible for finance have been working on this for weeks. Think of the Tax Administration, the FIOD and those who are more responsible for the financial system, and so are the banks and the whole discussion about the trust sector. Only, what we are doing now is really new and different from previous sanctions: we want to put all the holes in the dike. We have also gone much deeper behind all kinds of things that we have not gone after before. I therefore think it wise to do three things. The first is that, as Mrs Ploumen rightly said, we continue to articulate more and firmer sanctions. The second is that we cannot postpone everything we can do today until tomorrow. I very much agree with her. That is why we will continue to provide the Chamber with overviews. If the Netherlands is lagging behind, then the Chamber can also appeal to the cabinet; I understand that quite clearly. The third relates to what this last cabinet council is about: are there things that are threatening to escape our attention? Most of it is relatively obvious. I mentioned just now, and I think that Members of Parliament will be able to see immediately what Finance is doing, what the BZK is doing and what the Justice Department is doing. This falls relatively easily under the own columns. But sometimes, of course, there are things that have to be haunted between departments. I therefore think that we should have that conversation, precisely because it is terra incognita. But that's the third and final piece. I also very much agree with Mrs Ploumen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-4.u62	Mrs Ploumen, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-4.u63	Yeah, finally. I note that, in recent years, the Netherlands has apparently weakened compliance with the sanctions that were in force at the time. As a result, there has been a delay in closing the holes in the dike. The Minister says we'll do whatever it takes. But I must also note that so far this has been a sad little. I would therefore like to call on the Cabinet to do better, with immediate effect.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-4.u64	I agree with the call anyway. My perception is not that the Netherlands would be hopelessly behind, but I think the encouragement... In all cases, even if we had done it perfectly so far, but that's not so much as you have to go through with this, because it's so essential. I would therefore particularly like to underline the basic connotation of what Mrs Ploumen says. I agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-4.u65	We receive almost weekly reports that the Netherlands is lagging behind in implementing and complying with sanctions. That's painful. First, it was about the amounts. The Netherlands would have frozen only 400 million, while EUR 45 billion of assets could be frozen. The other day it was about the real estate. So, what's it look like? Only new transactions are reported to the government. New transactions around Russian real estate and other assets. But it has to be all transactions, right? If a Russian oligarch has a villa in Amsterdam-South, which he purchased an x-number of years ago, we want to know now, don't we? Can the Minister now promise that he will take all the transactions around all Russian real estate and that he will work on them?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-4.u66	I would like to look at this in isolation, but I would only like to promise things that the cabinet can actually deliver together with the implementing bodies. I understand this question. Let me also see what's possible on that second track. Mr Van Dijk says: we agree on the first track of new transactions; what can you do on the track of transactions that have already taken place? I just don't know what the options are for that. I do not know what the legal obstacles to this are. So I understand that inconvenience, but I really want to study on that, instead of giving an answer which Van Dijk then says in two or three weeks that it was not possible. So I'm gonna admit that's what I'm gonna do.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-4.u67	The Minister wants to study for a while? It's getting late this way. Those Russian oligarchs are watching and moving their possessions. That is so painful and that makes the Netherlands a muddy figure. We really need to take action now. It is perfectly logical that you also get to work with the already existing real estate of the Russians in the Netherlands and use the Kadaster to do so. To be honest, it's far too late to study on it now. I want action from the government now, so that those Russian oligarchs no longer get away with it. Will the Minister undertake to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-4.u68	Still, I have always indicated, even here in the Chamber, that we want to do the best we can and that, within the limits of the law, we are also taking everything out of the closet to freeze and deal with matters. However, I have also indicated that there are also issues that we cannot deal with, particularly in a rule of law like the Netherlands. I have said this before about, for example, the distinction between freezing and expropriation. For expropriation in the Netherlands you just need a legal title, which is right, because we have that property right high on the banner. That's a distinction I've made before. Van Dijk now adds the question about all previous transactions. I understand that question, but I cannot answer it now in this exchange of views. It's easy to say yes; if I do, Van Dijk will ask tomorrow how things turned out with that. So I just want to know what I promise. If I promise, I want to be able to live up to it. I would like to be prepared to do so in the short term, rather than talking about a period of weeks, so that there can be an answer to that in the Chamber. It's about real estate transactions, so I need to understand that with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and possibly with the Justice Department. That is not information we have at the Foreign Office itself. I am happy to provide the Chamber with an answer on this quickly, but I cannot do so here in this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-4.u69	Finally, Mr Jasper van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-4.u70	The last thing that all these ministries are working on is that point of direction and fragmentation. But it is true that this Minister, the Foreign Minister, has now taken the lead and that we can address him on these matters? I want us to get information as soon as possible. I would like to say that we really need to be clear about this at the beginning of next week, including the amounts that have been frozen so far.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-4.u71	I am happy to say that we are giving the answer we can give, including what is possible with regard to those previous transactions. I just really want to know to what extent that is legally and operationally possible. We'll have to know that before we answer that. My estimate is that it is possible to inform the Chamber about this at the beginning of next week. If that's possible, I will. If that is not possible, I will make sure that the Chamber is informed that it will take longer. That's one. As far as those who do what are concerned, I have just indicated that, of course, we are negotiating it internationally. But of course, the State Department is not a department that can do operational things. That is precisely why the division between these ministries is so important. It makes no sense for the Foreign Office to intervene, so to speak, against the FIOD, or against the Land Registry or other matters for which we do not have the people and for which we are not equipped.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-4.u72	Thank you, and you're going to inform the Chamber about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-4.u73	Yeah, I'm going to inform the Chamber about that, too. Mr Sjoerdsma, D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-4.u74	I share the frustration that is actually felt here, because it was the Chamber itself that released money last November, and not so little money, to set up and strengthen the sanctioning unit of foreign affairs. A few weeks ago, none of that would have happened. I have to say, I don't like the pace. If indeed people with yachts and real estate escape, if people reduce their stock interests to below 50% or try to channel them to family members, then I would like to see direction taken. The Minister says that Foreign Affairs is the chairman of the Interdepartmental Task Force. Is this minister the coordinating minister? Can we also be with you to at least get that overview?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-4.u75	No, and I'm gonna be precise anyway. In one of the AO's with Mr Sjoerdsma, I discussed the recruitment of the people for that task force. That is what he asked for, and I gave him an answer to that. We all want it yesterday rather than today and we prefer it today than tomorrow, but I answered it then. I also think that this is really happening at the rate it should be. How we organise this.I think that the best possible way of organizing it in the Netherlands is for directors to have their own responsibilities and for you to have, of course, official and, where necessary, political consultation when there is uncertainty about cooperation at key points. Of course, Foreign Affairs also has a responsibility to do so internationally. It is precisely in view of how we organized it in the Netherlands with the departments and the implementing organisations that hang on certain departments that there is no point in pretending to be more effective from the outside if you are going to coordinate over it. I know this from my previous responsibility with regard to what is happening at the FIOD and the Tax Administration and what is happening towards the financial system through the AFM and DNB. There is no point in letting anyone else interfere with it on the outside. This clearly lies politically with the Secretary of State and the second piece lies with the Minister, as is the case with other rulers.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-4.u76	That is not so obvious at all, because there is, of course, a reason why that sanction unit is in the Foreign Office. There is a reason why the sanction law we discussed last week, which still contains gaps that need to be closed, falls under the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. That's because there's a lot of knowledge coming together there, because there's a lot of international coordination coming together. So I expect some coordination, if the Minister does not want to give it on his own, because I just expect someone to be after it and make sure, as the Minister himself says, that there are no white spots, that there is a pace. My question that comes with this, or a few specific questions: has there been an assignment given to the Land Registry to do research? Was there an order given to close the gaps in that sanction law?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-4.u77	Mr. Chairman. I shall come back to that exact subdivision. However, I have just indicated, in an interim sense, that it is logical that the Land Registry falls within the scope of the BZK and that it will be dealt with in this context and not in the foreign affairs field. As far as coordination is concerned, of course you want to put those things that you meet internationally back here with the departments. But it is really important, and I am also specific about it, because otherwise we will only organise our future disappointment: Foreign Affairs has been equipped for a lot of things that have to do with abroad, but not for some kind of overarching sanction monitoring, let alone to interfere with departments. That has to come from those departments. What I find positive is that now, much more than before, departments are going down completely in the financial, operational, real estate and so on.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-4.u78	Finally, Mr Sjoerdsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-4.u79	The Minister is talking about future disappointment, but we are threatening to be a little disappointed today. I am not saying that because I want to put him in a difficult position, but simply because I am tasting what I also taste a little bit wider when I look around, I suspect that the colleagues who come after me would like to get on with this for a while, that there are concerns that people are coming out of the dance, that there are concerns that we do not have the pace that we should have, that there are concerns that the capacity that the Chamber had long wanted to see is still not there. And that there is the question of who then is the one to whom we can go to in the cabinet and, of course, each with his own responsibility, the Minister is right in saying that we are going to be chasing it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-4.u80	But we're all after that and we all have our own... That's just how it's done at ministerial level. One person is responsible for General Affairs; by the way, he is always right to say 'not for all things'. In addition, there is a specific responsibility such as that of the Foreign Office, which I have just explained. In addition, there are specific, independent responsibilities that lie with the various directors. That's how we organized it. We have agreed that we are constantly bringing this together in the official working group. We talked about this last Tuesday, and tomorrow we will be in the cabinet with that piece, the third part of my reply towards Mrs Ploumen, which we have to deal with in that area. That has not stood in the way, I repeat, of all the work that has been done in recent weeks. We'll inform the Chamber about that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-4.u81	Thank you. There are still a lot of interruptions. I would ask you to keep interruptions in two now and be brief and powerful, otherwise we will not be able to survive in time. I shall first give the floor to Mr Klaver and then to Mrs Mulder, Mr Dassen and Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-4.u82	This is really embarrassing and also just unacceptable, because the big shuffling seems to be starting. A party here in the Chamber that supplies the Minister of Finance thinks that the Foreign Minister should go about this, and the Foreign Minister refers to other ministers again. I don't care who's going to do this, as long as it happens. A sanction unit has been set up, so I was also assuming that we could ask this question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and that he would say: right, I gave orders to the Land Registry, I gave orders to the Ministry, then that must be carried out by the ministers responsible.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-4.u83	And your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-4.u84	If that is not the case, then I would like us to invite the Minister of the Interior here, the Minister of Finance and all other relevant directors, because this is not how we are going to get any answers. I think it's really unacceptable. We have just listened to Zelensky, we have a big mouth: we have to do more, we have to introduce sanctions, we have to move forward. And these are the answers we get: the ruler of the Interior is responsible, no, this is with Finance. Either this minister will answer, or the entire cabinet will sit here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-4.u85	I find that really too easy, because I started by explaining that the cabinet is committed to this every day, everyone on its own responsibility, last Tuesday. Every department is just going through a lot of this. It is perfectly justified for the Chamber to ask: we want to see this more often; we want to know what traction is on it and what is invested in who. But on the front, I said to Mrs Ploumen that I very much agree that it is, of course, in a sense irrelevant to the Chamber who regulates it, but that it needs to be done. That's what I started.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-4.u86	Does the cabinet want a sticker with "we'll do our best"? This is a debate on the situation in Ukraine and how the Netherlands behaves. There are specific questions put by colleagues here. I was under the impression that the Minister could answer that. If he can't and refers to other rulers... I just think there should be concrete answers. Now. This debate was on the agenda. The rulers could have prepared themselves. If it is with other directors, if the Minister of Finance is responsible for this, then let her come. If the Home Secretary is responsible when it comes to the Land Registry, jerk off on that trade. I do not think that we in the Lower House should let the cabinet get away with this kind of half-baked answers. We shouldn't accept that. Every hour counts. If Zelensky has just given an impressive speech here and we would let this pass with "well, you'll get an answer next week," that's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-4.u87	I am going to refer back to my previous answer. The other directors are also discussing this on a more than weekly basis with the committees of your Chamber. That's exactly what's happening. That is what I would like to say in defence of the rulers of Finance. They shall inform the Chamber thereof.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-4.u88	I'll share the inconvenience. Of course, we all want the Minister to do the same, and I assume all the other people in the cabinet too, that these sanctions will have the effect they should have as soon as possible. You will feel a certain inconvenience if relatively little is achieved. I think that's the feeling here in the Chamber. For such a debate as today, but also for forthcoming debates, you want to find a way to get that information as you would like it to be. During such an overarching debate as now, you want all that information to be there. I think that's what we're running into right now. I would like to ask the Minister to ensure that he is present in future debates. Then we need to know what is going on with all these different sanctions. How the Minister arranges that behind the front door with all his colleagues will, frankly, be of no use to me. But make sure that every time such a debate takes place there is an overview of all these sanctions. Then we know where we need to go if we think we are missing something. I would like to hear from the Minister if he is prepared to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-4.u89	I'd like to take a look at that. Just, what I really want to avoid... again, I want to take it up for the colleagues in the cabinet. There everyone is best equipped to inform the Chamber about their own part of the work. I can, of course, give answers for others on a regular basis in general terms. I have done this before, for example, in consultation with your Chamber when it came to energy. I'll do it again in a minute. Sometimes there is information on specific questions that I have also taken from the committee debates. I can keep doing that. At the same time, I know that the Chamber would like to have a very specific discussion on many of these issues. That's what's going on with the FIOD. I shall now turn to a question from Mr Omtzigt about the Tax Office. I can see it already. He's probably about to ask a follow-up question. I have a first- and perhaps a second-line answer to that, but not a third-, fourth- and fifth-line answer. The same goes for the Land Registry. If colleagues in the cabinet were to be questioned about what Foreign Affairs is doing outside the national borders in a coordinating sense, they could reply in the first instance, but they should, of course, refer them to me at some point. We have to accept that with each other. I would stress that the cabinet is keen to inform the Chamber as well as possible about all aspects of this. It is up to the Chamber to say whether it is enough or not enough. The cabinet will then have to work on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-4.u90	So here we have a vengeance that in such a total palette all kinds of different measures are taken in different places and that the overall overview is whether or not we are in good shape? Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I ask this Minister to make that statement. That's just an information question from our room. I think the cabinet should just take care of this and I call on the cabinet to come up with it. I can imagine that it is a search and that it may not be arranged directly within three days, but let's get an answer somewhere next week about how this will take shape. That's what we need as a room and you're here for us as a room.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-4.u91	That's exactly what I promised. We will inform the Chamber next week, not only about how we organized it and where we stand, but also about how we will inform the Chamber about it in the future. I can always talk about it in the debates with the Chamber, but my strong suspicion is that in the vast majority of cases it is by far the most effective and fastest for the Chamber when directors report on what happens to their own portion. That's the shortest way to the target, I think. But all that will be recorded by the Cabinet in next week's letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-4.u92	Maybe I'd like to say something about that myself. Many colleagues simply want answers to a number of questions. Colleagues have also indicated that they want this information in the short term. Of course there is an exchange in committee, but in such a plenary debate it is also important that the questions asked are answered. I therefore call on you to clarify, at the beginning of next week, how the questions can be answered as effectively as possible, in plenary debates and in committee debates.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-4.u93	I will take that with me, but it is also important to realise that colleagues in the cabinet, as I see it, have their own variant of this debate in their own committees.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-4.u94	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-4.u95	That's my impression.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-4.u96	I appeal to you again. I believe that several colleagues have said a few things about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-4.u97	Mr President, on a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-4.u98	Mr Omtzigt, point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-4.u99	It cannot be true that the Minister here after the President's speech says: for the houses you must be with the Minister of the Interior, for the boats you must be with another minister, for the taxes you will have to be with the Secretary of State for Finance. That's insufferable. I therefore ask the Cabinet to come here on Tuesday with all the ministers responsible. Why are we having a debate here? Sanctions were the central element. So will you ensure that all ministers are here on Tuesday to indicate what sanctions they have or have not been able to impose?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-4.u100	In my view, this is something that should be organised in the framework of the regulation. However, I support the request made by several colleagues to clarify how this is organised at the beginning of next week, so that the Chamber is as well informed as possible. I now give the floor to Mr Dassen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-4.u101	A second point of order. There is an approved motion from a week ago to exchange and inform tax information within 48 hours. That didn't happen. There's a set of room questions about real estate, about boats. They won't be answered. Behind the scenes, of course, I call the ministers and the secretaries of state. They're all pointing at each other for the answer. It's weird. Are these matters being answered and are we getting things on or are we just going to have air-tight debates here? That's my question. Would you urge the government to answer all these questions on Friday and then discuss them with the entire cabinet?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-4.u102	I think the call from the Chamber is very clear. I now give the floor to Mr Dassen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-4.u103	I wanted to join in that. I very much agree with what Mr Klaver and Mr Omtzigt said. This is unacceptable. In other countries, a task force is simply being set up. In the United States that is the KleptoCapture. They include experts on sanctions, money laundering, real estate, yachts, cryptocurrency, all of whom have been given the mandate to look at this just beyond departmental boundaries. Because you can't look at this in isolation. That is precisely the complexity of this whole target group. He's trying to hide things in all kinds of ways. If you look at it by department, there's no point at all. It now feels a bit like: a responsibility of all of us is no one's responsibility. I just heard the Minister say that a task force is being looked at, which is now being recruited to do so. I wonder how many FTEs are going to be put in there, who is going to be in charge of it, which experts will be in charge of it, when it is operational, to whom it will be accountable and at what level. Then we have much more clarity and insight. I think this should have been settled by now. So I'm curious when this will be arranged.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-4.u104	I have just indicated, also in response to the remark you made, that we will share that with the Chamber next week. I can now hear Mr Klaver say something outside the microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-4.u105	President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group).
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-4.u106	It is quite clear to which department this kind of particular matter lies. Take something like cryptocurrency, take something like money laundering. Of course there's contact about that. It's a matter for the Justice Department and for the Finance Department. That is, by the way, the case now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-4.u107	Mr Dassen, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-4.u108	This is too vague for me. If it's all clear, I think the Minister can share it with the Chamber today. Since I have one other question, I'd like to go to the Transatlantic Task Force. In the Netherlands we are already doing it in isolation, although the Minister says we are doing it in good coordination. This is so wide. This is going around the world. All those Russian oligarchs are trying to hide their identities. They don't only do that in the Netherlands. They do so through very complex financial structures inside and outside the European Union, to hide that identity, to hide that financial flow. I therefore ask the Minister to ensure that, as soon as this task force is set up here in the Netherlands, we join the Transatlantic Task Force.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-4.u109	Honestly, I wouldn't want to wait for that task force. I think we should do that anyway. I think that's a good suggestion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-4.u110	Switzerland seized 6 billion, Belgium 10 billion, France 22 billion. France has seized 390 properties and 2 large yachts. The United Kingdom has frozen over 1,000 people. To mention one thing: the soccer club Chelsea is already worth 3 billion on its own. That's frozen. The Netherlands: 0.4 billion, 0 boats............................................................................................................................................................. We're really freaked out. We know what's on our Zuidas. If you start a game... because sanctions are a match... and you give your opponent 36 days to hide things further and transport things away, the bird has flown. What has the Dutch Government done and seized over the past 36 days? Why are the tax data, which almost the entire Chamber said they should now be available to the authorities, still not to be used? The Tax Office knows whose house is, knows whose boat is, knows whose company is. Those data are shared by the parents, but not by the Russian oligarchs. What's going on in this country?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-4.u111	What I can say about this, however, is that there were initially three bumps in the Tax Office for the sharing of these data. That was about the confidentiality requirement of Article 67 AWR. This was about a sound legal basis in the framework of the GDPR. And it was about the information, the relevant up-to-date information as far as it is available at the Tax Office. What I understand is that this duty of tax confidentiality has now been waived. It is therefore no longer an obstacle to the provision of such data. The GDPR is currently being consulted by the national attorney. That is what I can say to Mr Omtzig.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-4.u112	Finally, Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-4.u113	I hope this isn't translated into Ukrainian. I don't know if the government realizes what she's like. The GDPR is valid in France and Belgium, and in the United Kingdom they had implemented it quite well before it came out. And it wasn't a problem there. After 36 days we hide behind the GDPR. I want confirmation by tomorrow night that those data, including the rulings, will be shared. That's an information request. This is an accepted chamberal motion to be distributed within 48 hours. I want to know what's been shared by tomorrow night. Then they can discuss it in the Cabinet. I don't accept this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-4.u114	I have indicated what we will share next week. Mr Omtzigt knows about rulings. I can look at Mr Omtzigt's question, but I think it will be next week. It is precisely because there is a need for an integral overview in which we take each of these aspects, that I would ask the Chamber to be able to send that letter next week. That'll call for a meeting in the cabinet tomorrow. We'll walk by each of those pieces.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-4.u115	You mean early next week?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-4.u116	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-4.u117	Finally, Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-4.u118	I find it unacceptable. There's a motion here to do it in two days. That motion was passed last week. There are questions in the Chamber that are precisely about this and that should have been answered by last night. They haven't been answered. Now we're gonna postpone for days again. Do you know where they are following this debate? The supplement parents follow this and think, "What's going on here? With us everything could be exchanged, nothing GDPR, nothing privacy." The lawyers on the Zuidas are going to work all weekend to make sure that everything that hadn't been locked away is locked away. We know how this sector works. I just want those pieces here tomorrow. It is unacceptable in a war that we will not be able to confiscate these things in 40 days, while all our neighbouring countries do.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-4.u119	I will contact my colleagues in the Finance Committee on this specific point. I will take that back specifically in the Cabinet tomorrow, but I cannot undertake to do so here. I can't promise on behalf of another ruler that we can do this tomorrow night anyway. I will say to Mr Omtzig that I will take that up again with, I think, primarily the Secretary of State for Finance. Then we'll get back to that. But I cannot now promise Mr Omtzigt that we will have taken care of that tomorrow night. That simply requires consultation with the Secretary of State for Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-4.u120	There are also a number of colleagues who, in my opinion, also touch that. So I'm gonna give you the floor first...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-4.u121	I have a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-4.u122	Yes, but first I'd like Mrs Teunissen, because she's standing here... Yeah? Is that okay with you? Okay, Mr. Clover.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-4.u123	I don't have a substantive question, but I really can't do this. This Minister has been Minister of Finance. He knows article 67 of the Awr. He knows paragraph 2 of that article, which gives the space to share this information. This whole thing could have been prepared. Now, for the fifteenth time in this debate, he refers to a fellow executive. You can suspend this debate. Let them all come. I'm done. You can suspend the debate. If other rulers apparently have to answer because this minister can't, we'll just sit back and wait until they get here. We're not gonna do this this way. The Chamber can't accept this. Either this minister answers now, or he suspends because he has to request it, or they're all just gonna sit here. Ready now. That's an order proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-4.u124	You're making a proposal. I'm gonna check with my colleagues to see if there's a majority for that. Let me start with Mrs Ploumen of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-4.u125	Support, because with every word that this minister says, the distance between The Hague and Kiev is increasing again. When these other ministers arrive, they are not supposed to come and explain why it is difficult. Then we want to know that these sanctions will be implemented from today, 36 days after they have been introduced.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-4.u126	Here's what I want to ask you. This is an order proposal. I would just like a brief response if you would support Mr Klaver van GroenLinks's proposal of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-4.u127	I also find it unacceptable that information is constantly being pushed forward. That's what I see happening with the energy sanctions. There is also a constant reference to the Minister for Climate and Energy, while this is the coordinating minister who deals with sanctions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-4.u128	Briefly, if you would like the order proposal...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-4.u129	And that is why I wholeheartedly support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-4.u130	You're supportive.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-4.u131	This evening's debate is over because of a sick Secretary of State. I think it would be a good idea not to suspend it now and take it back in half an hour, but to take it back at the end of the day. Then they can find out everything there is. There could be a letter about all the questions that should have been answered and about the motion that should have been carried out. Then tonight, around eight or nine o'clock, after the Afghanistan debate, we can know exactly what the situation is.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-4.u132	In any case, you support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-4.u133	Support for that proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-4.u134	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-4.u135	Perhaps another proposal to make things a little more complicated. It may also be possible for us to suspend briefly and see if we can get those answers quickly here. I have just heard the answer that the commitment to Mr Omtzigt's motion will be settled tomorrow. There's just an answer. That's how I listened to it. The rest will be in the letter. But if questions really remain open now, then I think they should be answered now. Perhaps we can ask and suspend for a short time. If that is not the case, then the option is open to do it with the other rulers.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-4.u136	This is a different idea of order, but we are going to take stock of it. First Mr. Sjoerdsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-4.u137	Since I certainly share the inconvenience, I would like to support the request to suspend. I will do this to give this Minister the opportunity to answer the questions asked. In this way, my group would very much like to know the answer to the question we have asked. Did the Kadaster order you to find out where those villas, houses and yachts are? That's what I'd like to know. Other groups have asked a number of other pressing and justified questions. Let's see how long the minister thinks he's gonna need to find out. Once that has happened, we are going to resume the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-4.u138	I do, however, support Mr Sjoerdsma's speech, because I believe that there should also be a sense of debate. I think it's a good idea to see how far the Minister himself is going to go first.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-4.u139	I thought Mr Omtzigt's proposal was very good. Then the Minister will have the room to prepare it well and we can discuss it further this evening.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-4.u140	I also support Omtzigt's proposal. I make the following request to the coalition partners. They don't have time in Ukraine. We can't afford to wait for days here. So I support Mr Omtzigt's request.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-4.u141	That is in fact Mr Klaver's request.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-4.u142	Support for Mr Sjoerdsma's proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-4.u143	It is indeed an essential part. It's okay to suspend if necessary. But I would also value the other questions being answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-4.u144	So what proposal do you support?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-4.u145	In my view, this fits most into the list of proposals put forward by Mr Sjoerdsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-4.u146	Yeah, that's what I thought.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-4.u147	It is important that there are answers to the questions, because every day there is another chance to lock stuff and power away. I'd like to suspend and see if the questions asked can be answered. But I do say: if it is not possible, I would like to consider supporting Mr Omtzigt's proposal. But now I go for Mr Sjoerdsma's proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-4.u148	Mr Stoffer replaced Mr Van der Staaij of the SGP. I see there's no objection to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-4.u149	Maybe that depends on what I think. But I support the line of rotation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-4.u150	I think we can conclude that there is now no majority to suspend for a long time and to invite several members of the cabinet. There is a majority in favour of suspending now. Then I would like to ask the Minister to let me know how long he will need to answer the questions asked. That is the conclusion of this point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-4.u151	I think that was specifically about Mr Omtzigt's question. I just answered the question about the IRS.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-4.u152	I suggest that we suspend for now, because there are really more questions. I don't think we have any choice now. Then I have a moment to contact the Minister about what time we can resume the discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-4.u153	Mr President, may I say something else? It wasn't just about this question. For example, it was also about the question about the Land Registry. I can imagine that we will at least suspend for some time. Then perhaps there can be a quick round of the Registry, in which we submit our questions in writing again, so that there is no doubt about it. Then that can be well prepared. The cabinet itself is about its own delegation. So either this minister answers all the questions we have asked, or other rulers explain it; that is up to the cabinet itself. Maybe that's how we can fix it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-4.u154	That is a practical interpretation. I think this is a good summary. I shall suspend the meeting until the Minister is in a position to answer the questions that have been asked, which have just been inventoried. It is up to the Minister to decide in the end whether he answers the questions, or whether he wants to invite several colleagues. We also have some other things.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-4.u155	I think this is a good time for a lunch break; let me do that first. After the suspension there are also a number of two-minute debates.
