ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u1	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the reception of Ukrainian refugees, with the first deadline on the cabinet side. I shall be the first to give the floor to the Secretary of State for Justice and Security.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As you said this morning, Minister Yeşilgöz-Zegerius is not here until 4.15 p.m. That is why I am starting now, and I shall begin with the questions that the Chamber has asked the Minister. Then I will answer the questions I have been asked. I do so in this order: first Ukraine and then non-Ukraine. I am also doing this because of your request to keep non-Ukraine compact, but questions have been asked about it. If it's all right with you, Mr. President, then Minister De Jonge, then Minister Schouten and burden, but certainly not least, Minister Wiersma. The questions that have been asked to the Minister are mainly about the emergency right that has been used and the position of the minister in it. Possibly they also went a little bit about the MCCb. I shall, of course, begin with Mrs Kröger, since she has requested this debate. Why can emergency law not apply to all refugees? This has already been said by some of Mrs Kröger's colleagues in the debate, and I have said a few words about it at previous times in this Chamber. We see that in a very short time a lot of people have fled from Ukraine to Europe, more than 5 million by now. This also means that, as some of you have already said, in a very short period of time, there were a lot of people who came to the Netherlands relative to those 5 million people. Now we're at 40,000. This means that there is a special situation and a special situation. You can use the emergency right to do that. I shall, of course, say a little more about the emergency right and what exactly has or has not been used. It does not apply to the regular group of asylum seekers, because as some of you have pointed out, they are there every year. We have had to deal at several times with the situation that there was a shortage of places, not just in 2015. In last Tuesday's debate, Mrs Podt also referred to November last year. In short, this is not an emergency, apart from the fact that what is happening in Ter Apel is of course not what we want, but I come to that at the end. That is why the right of emergency cannot be used. What's the emergency? The right of emergency means that we have laid down a task for all the mayors. One job, that's all. However, it is important that this task should be carried out by means of the right of emergency. This means that the Minister of Justice can, through a ministerial arrangement, establish a framework that mayors must comply with. As a result, the security region mayors have also been given an instrument to say to mayors in their security region: this is a task that is legally invested in you. After all, we have asked the security region mayors to provide 25,000 places twice. More powers have not been given. There was talk of progress. That's not the point. At the moment, in quotes, it is "only" about the fact that a task has been assigned to the mayors, only when it comes to Ukrainians.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u3	Mr Bishop has a question. Are you done with the emergency task issue?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u4	No, Mr. Chairman. Even more so, the magazine before me now has the headline: 'SGP Group, Member of Parliament Bishop'.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u5	Let's just wait and see.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u6	You're guessing what I'm gonna say now, Mr. Chairman. The MP Bishop asked: why not debate first with the House of Representatives? When it comes to the use of emergency legislation, there are two situations. The first is that the use of emergency legislation must be speeded up so that we cannot inform you in advance. Think, for example, of a situation in which it is about terrorism. Then we can put in that emergency bill and then we'll come to you. In this case, "U" is the Second and First Chambers. This must be done: we must always come back to you with a permanent law. I'll say something about that in a minute. The second situation that is going on here is that we are calling in emergency legislation, but that we are informing the Chamber prior to that commitment. We did, because the MCCb, the ministerial sub-committee linked to this procedure, met for the first time on 9 March. You also received a letter on 8 March. We have therefore only activated Articles 2c and 4 of the People's Movement Act, which say nothing but that the task will lie with the mayors. What should we then do when we implement emergency legislation? Then we'll have to send a perpetual law to the Chamber. This week you received the 19th, in the direction of Mrs Van der Plas. Then you decide as a Chamber whether you agree with what we have done. When you disagree with us, what we have done so far is legal, because the emergency law was simply applicable. We should simply stop using emergency legislation without delay.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u7	Thank you. Mrs Van der Plas, BBB, and then Mr Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u8	Before I go into the substance of this matter, perhaps I should apologize in a moment. I sometimes blow very high off the tower with things, but I did not see it until too late that it had already come to the Chamber. Then I think I should just say that, because I'm standing here checking the cabinet, but sometimes I have to check myself a little more often.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u9	I think that is very much the responsibility of Mrs Van der Plas.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u10	Once this is very neat. I'm not charging it as an interruption. Mr Bishop, SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u11	So it's kind of a personal fact, I understand. Two comments. Firstly, we see a stream of Ukrainians, Ukrainian refugees, coming this way. Hearts, doors and houses open. This means that at that time there was no real necessity, no real emergency, because it was already foreseen. There are still, I believe, 10,000 unfilled sites for this stream. So that illustrates that this has been a hasty decision. The second is: the ground on which the emergency right is started, the People's Movement Act, is not written for this purpose. If you look at the explanatory memorandum on that law and the articles, what is it about? For example, to arrange the possibility of a real evacuation in an acute emergency. So, from a constitutional point of view, it's an impure use of the law. Therefore, if such a law, which is not intended for this purpose, is used for an improper purpose, I believe that the debate with the Chamber should take place first. That will then be thoroughly discussed by the law that will come into effect. So we can't do that on the inside of "we're going to activate it by royal decree." However, I should like to make this point in connection with the explanation given by the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u12	I do not agree with Mr Bishop on a number of points, but you will not be surprised, otherwise we would not have done what we did. Firstly, we are dealing not only with very special circumstances but also with a high degree of topicality. Mr Bishop is right to refer to the fact that at this moment he has just argued that he has 10 000 municipal places more ready than in the municipal places. I'm gonna wrap this up to a thousand. We currently have 41,000 places and 41,000 of them are occupied, but there are now 42,000 people registered in the population register. This means that the others are not in municipal places, for example in the home of private individuals, or they have arranged for themselves that they are somewhere in the Netherlands. But they may, in a manner of speaking tomorrow, be the responsibility of the municipal organizations. That's one. Two. There is only need for this to happen in Ukraine, and the group of people who have now fled in Ukraine, for example, to the west of Ukraine and then crossing the border, is increasing. For example, a city like Berlin has dealt with 15,000 people in one day. I would rather be prepared for what is to come and I would rather tell Mr Bishop, of course through the President, that we have places available at the moment rather than having a debate here with Mr Bishop in which he blames me for not having the matter in order which leaves too few places. Mr President, I would like to conclude by saying that, if it is right, you, like Mrs Van der Plas, have received the opinions of the Council of State last week. You will see that they indicate that it may well be that we were right and a little less that Mr Bishop was right. Mr Bishop will soon be able to discuss this with the cabinet, because you will ultimately decide whether we can continue with the law. That's not the issue right now. That is the subject of the ongoing legislative debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u13	Thank you for this explanation, which illustrates that the acuteness with which this law was activated was indeed premature. The need to do what is necessary and to prepare for an even greater flow is not the point of discussion. The fact that there are special circumstances, that there is a great deal of suffering in Ukraine and that we must be very prepared to empty the need where necessary is not the issue of discussion. It's about the state-law side of the matter. Indeed, there is now a reflection of the Council of State. To be honest, I was surprised by the fact that, as a statement, the objective of this law is not included in the consideration of the Council of State. The purpose of this law is simply direct: to relocate the population, to evacuate a whole or part of an area and the resulting drainage, housing and care of the population and the associated registration, as well as the preparations for it. This law is therefore not intended to place asylum seekers, however much I welcome the fact that this is happening. That is why I maintain this state-law objection. The opinion of the Council of State does indeed give us cause to look at it very carefully, although it went a little less far than I expected. This is a very fundamental principle of state law. The Chamber is passed without any real acute need.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u14	I think that if a Member of Parliament, but certainly a member of the SGP, uses constitutional arguments, you should always take that extremely seriously. The SGP has a good reputation in that regard. So we will have that debate together when it comes to the Continuing Act. But as a cabinet, we are convinced that our explanation is possible. In that we feel supported by the Council of State. Let there be no misunderstanding: when the majority of the Chamber agrees with the SGP, this means that we must stop using emergency legislation immediately. However, we also see another movement in this Chamber. I'm suddenly looking at Mrs Kröger a little bit more. She's just saying: you should put more effort into emergency legislation. I say to Mrs Kröger exactly the opposite of what I say to Mr Bishop, namely that we are certainly trying to use emergency legislation on all sides only if we think that we really can. So where on the one hand we disappoint Mr Bishop, we do the opposite towards Mrs Kröger.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u15	I think you disappoint us both, because we both want sound instruments. Does the Secretary of State recognise the inconvenience, or more than discomfort, the painful, poignant feeling that we have now created such a contrast between the way we deal with people who have the right to care in one legal way, namely people who are in an asylum procedure, and people from Ukraine? When the cabinet came up with this emergency legislation, did a legal review be made to see if the mandatory legal instruments chosen could be applied to both groups, irrespective of the discussion on them? Is that legal reconnaissance over?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u16	I have already told you in the introduction to my speech that I will dwell on the block of non-Ukrainians. That is what Mrs Kröger is referring to. At the time when we were being asked whether we were going to use emergency legislation for the benefit of Ukrainians, the issue was also very clearly raised that it could not be done for non-Ukrainians. I'll get back to that... I wanted to use a word that shouldn't be, namely the word "block."
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u17	It's okay with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u18	... for the non-Ukrainers/Ter Apel component.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u19	Could you wait for that, Mrs Kröger?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u20	So I understand now that this legal reconnaissance is over. I think it is particularly relevant, because it is a question of facing a war in Europe. Large groups of refugees are getting started and the cabinet has had a discussion about how it is dealing with that group, given that the current reception is already beeping and cracking. At that time, the instruments of emergency legislation were chosen. Apparently, there has been a legal discussion about which instrument we choose and whether we can also choose an instrument that allows us to distribute the whole group in an appropriate way. I'm very curious about that legal analysis. The Secretary of State has just indicated that there is, so I would very much like to receive it as a Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u21	I said that we talked about the question: can this, yes or no? That's what we did in the MCCb. That is the special sub-committee operating in the framework of Ukraine. This has been discussed very emphatically: no, emergency legislation can only be done in relation to Ukrainians. I have just said that, through the chairman, to Mr Bishop, among others. We do not agree on that, at least Mr Bishop and I. We're gonna talk about that at the perpetual law.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u22	Mrs Kröger asks if there is an underlying piece that can be sent to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u23	I don't think there's a piece. I will, of course, check that out, but I do not think there is any underlying piece.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u24	Mrs. Kröger.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u25	Mr President, we have had this debate endlessly here, for the third time in my view. The Secretary of State has stated in a high tone that it was not legally possible. We have also sought legal advice. A professor says it's a choice. The situation in Ukraine is the reason for the emergency law to come into force, but then it is a political choice for which group you apply that law. Apparently, in the MCCb, the consideration was made to allow the law to apply only to Ukrainians. Then I'd like to have the legal note that says how it's secured.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u26	The Secretary of State has indicated that he will return to that in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u27	Yes, and I believe that the high tone in the past debates I have had with Mrs Kröger, among others, was not for my part. On the contrary, I think that we should not have this debate in a high tone, especially Mrs Kröger and I. I can imagine a little more when it comes to the people of the Forum for Democracy and PVV. I think you can see a slight difference of opinion with the cabinet. However, as far as the reception of Ukrainians is concerned, we are very often in agreement. I would rather have a good conversation with Mrs Kröger than a high-pitched debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u28	And you will return to Mrs Kröger's question in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u29	Yes, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u30	What the Secretary of State and the PVV do agree on is that there is an emergency situation in the Netherlands. But that emergency is created by the Secretary of State, by the Kaagsecretary, who carries out the Kaag and GroenLinks agenda. What do I mean by that? As long as the Secretary of State refuses to close the borders for all those asylum-seekers from the Middle East and Africa and all those illegal immigrants who are sitting here do not return to the country where they belong and come from, we are creating a huge problem here, such a big problem that the Secretary of State must now even resort to emergency legislation. That is what he is doing first for the Ukrainian shelter, but later on we will also be coming to the next block of the Secretary of State on behalf of all those asylum profiteers from Africa and the Middle East. Can the Secretary of State stop the influx of all those asylum profiteers from Africa and the Middle East?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u31	I'll be right back to the non-Ukrainians' point. 'Kaagsecretary' is not the term that should be used here, Mr President, but I have not seen it as an insult. Compared to a deputy prime minister, I say: we've known a lot of good vice prime ministers in this country, haven't we, Minister De Jonge? So in that sense, I don't see that as an insult. But I'll come back to the non-Ukrainians.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u32	It may be a waste of your interruptions when it comes to non-Ukrainians. That's what the Secretary of State will come back to. But it's up to you, Mr. Markuszower.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u33	I've got five more, haven't I?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u34	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u35	That term is not even intended to offend the Secretary of State, but to indicate that we have the problem that the agenda of GroenLinks and D66 is being implemented by this cabinet. That leads to extremely open borders. This leads to further relaxation, which leads to even more asylum seekers or followers, and it leads to huge problems. Then my question to the Secretary of State is: what does he say today, not to GroenLinks today, or to D66, who support him with this agenda, but to all those Dutch people who can no longer pay their fixed charges, or to those Dutch people who can no longer get homes or even from their homes to make room for status holders from distant, dark places? What does the Secretary of State say to these people? When is this cabinet going to do something for its own people, the Dutch?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u36	When I hear Mrs Kröger's contribution, I do not always feel that she is supporting my policy. So I don't share that observation from the PVV. And what I think the PVV has been doing for years is proving that I am right in saying that we cannot use emergency legislation for the regular group of asylum seekers, because the PVV says time and time again that it has been going on for years. And regardless of whether I agree with the PVV, I say: if it has been going on for years, it is not an emergency situation that allows you to use emergency legislation. We therefore do not intend to use this emergency legislation. The law, which I am about to come up with, is a regular legislative process, which, by the way, you can do faster or not fast. This is partly up to us and, of course, to you, but given the contributions of most parties, I assume that if we present it in the Chamber, it should be dealt with fairly quickly. To Mr Eerdmans I give an answer which he had already suspected on the basis of my speech. He asked: are you willing to withdraw the Emergency Act and the Relocation Act population? That law as such should not be repealed in any way; it simply continues to exist. The question is simply: are you withdrawing the use of that law? At the moment, the Chamber is in a position to do so, because you have to decide whether it can continue to be used, yes or no, by means of the permanent law. Apart from that, emergency legislation also requires us to stop as soon as we can. We are now also in a process of going to a regular way of regulation, but that is without prejudice to the fact that it is currently valid, until you say: ho, and no further. In doing so, I would like to close the block of "emergency legislation" and thus also the block of "Minister of Justice" and go to my own role as Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u37	I shall first give the floor to Mr Brekelmans, VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u38	I don't think my question has been answered yet. That question was actually an addition to what Mr Bishop said. He said that there is indeed a question mark on the route chosen by the cabinet. The two articles that have been activated so far are not very far-reaching. But if we were to come to the point that other articles are also being activated that go much further, for example, the possible demand for buildings or the designation of locations, then you would really want to see no legal question about this, at least not the fundamental doubts that the SGP also raises. That's why I'm asking the Secretary of State a question I asked earlier. It seems as if at least we still have a few weeks or maybe even months before we activate other articles as well. In the meantime, can the Secretary of State or the Minister see if there is an alternative legal basis that does not ask such fundamental questions?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u39	I did not say to Mr Brekelmans at the time, in previous debates in my role as Secretary of State, that it is absolutely not the intention to adopt such measures. If that were to be the case, it would be the ultimate remedy. If it is not comparable to that first situation that I have just described, where topicality is so great, think of terrorism, we will not be able to inform you in advance, then we will choose to inform you in advance. I say immediately: last time it was March 8th, March 9th. That's formal in advance, but it's pretty tight. However, I will always strive to inform you so early that Mr Brekelmans or one of the other 149 Members of Parliament will always have the opportunity to request a debate on this matter with us. The only exception I make to that is when there is a calamity, so we just don't have that time. In that case, you will be informed afterwards. At the moment I say to you: as soon as we have any indication that things are going wrong, for example with the delta between the places that are there and the places that we need, we will come to you as soon as possible. That's what I'm about...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u40	To your own wallet.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u41	...to my own wallet. Well, I guess I'll start with Mrs. Kröger. She asked if it was possible whether a coordinating director could be a contact point for all members of the cabinet. The answer is yes. And even more fun: it's already there. It's called Eric van der Burg. In other words, that's me. I'm the coordinating ruler. This is without prejudice to the fact that although I have the task of coordinating, the ministers on the left and the right are simply responsible for their own part. That is why you see me, together with the Minister of Justice, not only here now, but also three other ministers here. Why is Ukrainians who are covered by the directive not immediately granted a residence permit? I have that question as a question from Mrs Kröger, but if there is one consistent in her story, then it is Mrs Piri.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u42	However, let me talk about the role of coordinating director. In my first term, I expressed my discomfort at the fact that there must be five directors here. I'd say there's one person from the cabinet who can talk to everything that's going on about this reception crisis. Unfortunately, that does not seem to be the case. However, a comment on the relationship between the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration and the Minister of Justice and Security. The latter is the chairman of the MCCb. I read that the Minister for Justice and Security is the coordinating minister in the field of crisis management. Then what's the relationship between...? Let's make it concrete. There are 150,000 refugees so directly, there is no plan and we as a Chamber are calling a ruler to account. Is that the coordinating minister or minister? how the Secretary of State describes himself? Or is it the one who, according to the crisis structure, is the minister responsible?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u43	There are only two people in the Netherlands who can chair the MCCb structure. That's the Minister of Justice, unless the Prime Minister demands that position for himself. So the ministers on the left and right of me cannot be chairman of the MCCb structure either. That is the Minister of Justice or the Prime Minister. That is why the Minister of Justice is President of the MCCb and that is why she is chairing those meetings. This is without prejudice to the fact that colleagues on the left and right are present at the MCCb meetings as regards the implementation of everything that is happening there and the decisions taken within the MCCb. They can also simply participate in the decision-making process. When something has to be done in the area of housing, Mr De Jonge is being looked at. When it comes to the area of poverty and so on, you are already guessing it, it is Minister Schouten. For asylum seekers in broad, sorry, Ukrainians and non-Ukrainians, the Secretary of State for Justice is simply responsible. So you can address me on all kinds of matters. It is only very obvious that you ask Minister Wiersma if you want to know about education. He also enjoyed it longer than I did, so that increases the chance of you getting a good answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u44	I think this is a bit of a waste of my interruptions. I get a very long answer, but the question was: who is ultimately responsible if there is no immediate plan for those 150,000 refugees? When I read the documents, I see that the Minister of Justice and Security as chairman of the MCCb is responsible for this. When I ask who the coordinating director is, the Secretary of State says: no, I am, but if you have a question about education, you should especially invite the Minister for Education. Of course, as a Chamber, we cannot sit here with half the cabinet every time we want to talk about the reception of Ukrainians in broad terms. This seems to me to be a situation which is not very workable.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u45	No, that's why we didn't choose to sit here with half the cabinet, but only with five directors. This is without prejudice to the fact that decisions relating to a population group in the Netherlands always involve several ministers or secretaries of state. Those are decisions that concern you and me, as ordinary citizens of the Netherlands. We have agreed with each other the following about education, which in itself is not that crazy. This is so important that we have not appointed one, but even two ministers. The same applies to social affairs and poverty. The point is that you come to me if you have specific questions about Ukrainians and non-Ukrainians in relation to the asylum issue. If you're talking about the 150,000... I say that separately from the number you are talking about, because I will stay away from it for a while. If it's right, we won't have a MCCb structure anymore. Then the Presidency of the Minister of Justice has disappeared and you simply ask me these questions. If you would like a very brief answer to the question of who you should give a kick in the back by then, that is me.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u46	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u47	I was saying that Mrs Piri was consistent. Well, there's no harm in repeating that one more time. This is about the temporary directive. Why not get a residence permit right away? I say that Mrs Piri is consistent, but even the PvdA is consistent in this. It was the PvdA, GroenLinks and Mr Van Dijk just walked into the SP which voted against the current law in 2005. Mrs Piri's predecessor or predecessor, because I do not know who was then spokesperson at the time. However, we chose in 2005, Chamber and Cabinet, to implement the temporary directive in the Netherlands as it has been implemented. The PvdA didn't agree. GroenLinks and the SP didn't agree either, but the majority of the Chamber did. So this is how the law is implemented and so is the government, which has to implement laws, implementing it. I must also say that it would be a real shame if we were to devote time now to amending the law with which we would opt for a temporary residence permit, because that would solve very little. We still have to arrange for the Ukrainian shelter, first the shelter I am going to go about, and then housing, which is not houses that Mr De Jonge is talking about. We still need to ensure that there are schools where Ukrainian children are taught, because we cannot lose the amount of children that are now in the mainstream education system. Somebody's got to do something about that. The same applies to issues of social affairs, VWS or otherwise.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u48	In order not to keep going in circles, it might be a good thing that we clarify this today. What the Secretary of State says about the legislation in 2005 is correct, but that is not my plea. I have the impression that the cabinet interprets the plea for a temporary residence permit as if we were asking for a temporary asylum permit. That's not what the request is.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u49	No, I know the difference.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u50	You do not need to amend the current law, because I understand that under the current law you can grant a temporary regular residence permit, for example on humanitarian grounds. You don't have to change the law for that. The question is, why don't you? And why is this important? It doesn't matter because we think it's so important to put it under some kind of law. This regular temporary residence permit does not automatically confer the right to housing or social rights. The latter was previously claimed by the VVD. But it does ensure, for example, that social security and the right to education are guaranteed for Ukrainians.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u51	The latter, social security and the right to education, is now also at issue, because the children of Ukraine now also have the right to education. Next to me, there's someone whose people are just working hard on that, too. So that's not the issue. We do not see Mrs Piri's wish to contribute to the solution of the problems we face. That is why we do not choose the path that Mrs Piri would like to take.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u52	Mrs. Piri.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u53	Can I just say one more thing? I would like to add something to that, because I think Mrs Piri asked for it too. If we want asylum in the future, can we do so retroactively? For the sake of clarity, the moment of registration in the BRP applies. So I am actually saying yes to Mrs Piri. That is why it is important that Ukrainians register, as far as they have not yet done so, because at least that date will be fixed in the BRP. And that is important, because if you stay here for long, very long, permanent, something we do not hope for, this is important for obtaining, for example, Dutch citizenship or a permanent residence permit.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u54	I am, of course, very pleased with that last commitment. I also think that this is true of the people in the municipalities who are concerned that this might pose a problem in the future. I just really don't agree with you on your explanation... Sorry about the Secretary of State's explanation. Those same rights already have people, don't they? For example, the European Directive lays down the right to adult education and vocational education. That is something we do not now grant. We would grant that if we simply chose to choose that legal basis on humanitarian grounds according to our own Dutch Aliens Act. That is also possible, because those Ukrainians are covered by Articles 13 and 14 of that law. So it's not a semantic discussion here. The issue is whether, for example, a 19-year-old student from Kiev who fled here can simply pursue his education here, with the right to study funding. Then we should not have a debate on social housing and social assistance, because you are not obliged to do so at all. I really do not understand why the cabinet is not prepared to guarantee these legal guarantees for those Ukrainians, and that is why we are stuck in this discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u55	It is true that we are stuck in it, because Mrs Piri and the cabinet differ on this point, which of course can be, but there is no point in having this conversation seven more times. Mrs. Piri doesn't feel the same way we do. It's possible. It can, of course, also ask for a ruling from the Court on this matter. Then we'll see what's specific. But we just really don't feel the same way about this. When it comes to the specific issue of education, do you think it would be okay if I looked to the left so far that the Minister of Education intended to address you later?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u56	Sure. But then we agree that it is a political choice not to use the option provided by Dutch law to grant, like all neighbouring countries, a temporary residence permit, not a temporary asylum permit, but a temporary residence permit to Ukrainians. This happens in Germany, Belgium, France and all other countries, but this cabinet makes the choice not to do so and thus to grant less rights to Ukrainians. Then we agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u57	Well, we agree we don't agree on it. And we agree that if Mrs Piri had indeed been in box K and I had been on her side of the room, there would probably have been another answer from box K.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u58	D66 does not necessarily attach to the temporary residence permit. As far as we're concerned, it's about the goal. That objective should be for people who come here to have all the rights they should have under the directive. I'd like to check with the Secretary of State. Quite specifically, do these people have the right to travel freely, for example through Europe, and to settle in other places? I think it is important that we cover that right, because I believe it is part of that directive. I would therefore like to hear from the Secretary of State whether that is the intention.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u59	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u60	I get a bit of the feeling that the left-wing parties are trying to bully the Secretary of State in a corner. But I don't think those people are supposed to stay here. They must of course return to Ukraine as soon as possible and safe. But if they're going to sign up, like what you were just talking about, can't they eventually develop the scenario that they're going to stay here? They shouldn't sign up, then, should they?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u61	I'm sorry, but I don't know if I understand this reasoning enough...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u62	To be able to answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u63	...to be able to answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u64	Let me briefly explain. In the interrupting debate, it was about whether these people should be registered in the municipal basic administration, because then they could have access to all kinds of things and stuff. However, the outcome may also be that an asylum application was also appointed to obtain the Dutch citizenship... is much easier and that they can then rely on the date of registration, for example this week. But if we want them to go back to Ukraine, don't they have to sign up?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u65	Yeah, now I get the question. Registration in the population register is necessary to deliver my "yes" to Mrs Podt. From the moment you register in the population register, you are entitled to education, to living money and to a form of shelter, starting with the accommodation as I normally create, and finally accommodation as Mr De Jonge is responsible for. We have to sign up for this. This is completely unrelated to the question of whether we want to stay here permanently, because the temporary directive is valid for one year. It can then be extended for another year or two years, up to three years. After three years one will have to go back or go back, or go into the asylum procedure. However, the issue is as follows, and the Forum for Democracy is much less happy than the Labour Party, but, yes, these parties differ on several points. If we were to apply for asylum in three years' time, which we all hope will not, including the Labour Party, because it also hopes that people will be able to return to Ukraine, it will be counted from the date of registration and not from then on.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u66	That all sounds nice.... "temporary this and that".... but then we're just going to have a situation in three years with all rooted children, and then there's another general or children's pardon. We now know this situation very often from the past. That temporaryity is, on the contrary, much less guaranteed in this way. How credible is this?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u67	On this point, too, I might agree more with Mrs Piri than with the Forum for Democracy. Even more so, I'm sure, because it's nobody's, almost nobody's, I'm gonna let them be careful. The Ukrainians are supposed to stay here, starting with the Ukrainians themselves. They don't want to stay here. No, they want to go back. That's what people say all the time. They want to go back to their country. They want to go back to their homes, as far as those houses still exist, because Putin is destroying a lot. This is without prejudice to the fact that, if the situation arises that they cannot go back, they can enter the asylum procedure. The question will then be answered in the context of the asylum procedure: can you not go back or do you not want to go back? If the answer is that one can safely return to Ukraine, then one will have to return, as with 'ordinary' asylum seekers. If we find that we cannot go back because it is indeed unsafe, then we should stay here longer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u68	The Secretary of State is actually confessing colour here. Of course, we already know him from the statement: the more asylum seekers, the better. So it is entirely in line with the expectation that he is more in agreement with the PvdA than with the Forum for Democracy, but also with content... Look, we also know this situation from the Syrians. It is also said that they cannot go back and that they must stay here forever. These people are all getting permanent residence permits now. Then there is always a call on country reports and then the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has to give a ruling on this. We will then find ourselves in all kinds of extensive official marshes in which the Secretary of State can invoke all kinds of political talk that are all dealt with in official ways. That's just a way to make sure these people stay here permanently. We will be back here in a few years and everyone will wonder why we don't have houses in the Netherlands and how it can be that the houses are out. That's because, ironically, almost everyone here on the right of me wants hundreds of thousands of people to come here every year. The whole world has to come here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u69	What is your question to the Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u70	Does the Secretary of State not see that, with the policy of registering these people, the situation is created that these people are simply going to stay here permanently, as has happened over and over again with all the other asylum seekers?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u71	There are many reasons why I hope that I will not be holding this debate in this Chamber in a number of years' time against the Forum for Democracy. One of the reasons is that I hope that Ukrainians can return to Ukraine and that peace and security will be restored there as soon as possible. If we find from people living in a country where there is war, anywhere in the world, through the normal procedures of the IND with the possibility of justice that they can stay here, then they can stay here. And at the moment that we find, through the normal procedures of the IND, that people have to go back, this Secretary of State will work to get people to go back.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u72	This is just the "wir purchase tie" of the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u73	The Secretary of State continues his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u74	I would like to turn to Mrs Piri's question: does the cabinet consider the standard amount announced for reception sufficient in relation to the costs incurred by municipalities? We have said: €100 per person per day, so €700 per person per week. But we also said that we do customization. That customization is in a number of cases. The amount may not be high enough. A little too short: sometimes the costs in Amsterdam for land are higher than in Delfzijl, so you have to change the amount. It may also be that a municipality makes a deal over time, for example, allowing it to be more than three months or even more than twelve months. We have said about this: if you want to spend something longer than 12 months, please contact us. They have a contact for that, too. Then one also has an answer within 72 hours if it can be for example 24 months. Sometimes you can only rent something for 24 months or it's just a lot cheaper if you don't rent it for 12 months, but for 24 months. We are trying to regulate it so flexibly that if it is no longer necessary for the reception of Ukrainian asylum seekers or refugees, then we hope that both asylum seekers and other categories will be able to use it. So that's where we deliver customization. Mr. Chairman. With regard to all 28 other colleagues, I am in a rather luxurious situation as Secretary of State, because I am able to arrange for the first reception of asylum seekers, I am now saying 'asylum seekers', but it is Ukrainians and non-Ukrainians who can simply arrange for them, regardless of whether or not I remain within the budgets included in the budget. After all, we have a duty to arrange for that shelter. So if it doesn't stay with 30,000 Ukrainians, at least there will be 40,000 of them now, then I can just increase that money without getting into any trouble in the budget. Within the current systems it is simply arranged that my budget will automatically be increased by that amount. Tomorrow, Friday, we're gonna talk about how we're gonna cover that, but that's just a question of coverage and not of spending. Mr Eerdmans asked if there is a limit for what the Netherlands can handle. The complicated thing is that Ukrainians have free travel. Mrs Podt just asked: are you going to implement all the elements of the directive, including free travel? I replied yes to that. I should have said formally: yes, with the exception of the sentence on free travel, because that is already settled. That has nothing to do with the temporary directive. In any case, regardless of the use of the temporary directive, Ukrainians can travel freely across Europe and stay longer in Europe anyway. But the answer is still yes, Mrs Podt. I'm not taking anything back from my "yes" towards Mrs Podt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u75	I very much appreciate the Secretary of State saying so. I am curious, because I think there are still a few practical things to do. For example, they have to do with whether or not they have a biometric passport. I think it's a good thing we're making that very precise. Because I keep getting apps all the time from people who suggest that there are all kinds of practical objections. If that doesn't lick now, air... blurp! Again: if this does not work now, I am also fine with getting that answer in a letter. The Minister for Primary and Advanced Education is laughing at me, I see! Haha.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u76	Laughing, laughing.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u77	Very nice! It would be nice to get this very precise.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u78	Mrs Podt is right. It's linked to the biometric passport. You have to have a passport called "formally" that's a biometric passport that allows you to show that you're a Ukrainian. Otherwise, everyone can say that he is a Ukrainian. So it is true that free travel applies to people who have biometric passports. The same applies to the temporary directive. If they do not have that passport, they may still be covered by the temporary directive. Then we are going to see if it is true that you are not, of course, a Ukrainian or someone who has been legally in Ukraine. It can also apply to people without Ukrainian nationality who were legitimate in Ukraine. Then it's true. Only then we have to prove it more, because we have to be sure that Mrs Podt is Mrs Podt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u79	Mrs Podt, are you Mrs Podt?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u80	I'm sure of it. But then again: if that evidence has been provided, then can these people travel freely?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u81	When it comes to the group I just described. So I'm talking about legitimate and not non-legal. Those flights, of course, also for bombs, but they go into the asylum procedure when they come here. Outside the microphone and outside the debate, Mrs Piri rightly nuances me by saying that it is going to be six months from now. That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u82	Mrs. Piri is going to write the letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u83	Maybe in a next cabinet. We'll have to see about that by then. But I was with Mr. Eerdmans, chairman. I want to do it right. Is there a limit to what we can handle in the Netherlands? Of course there is. As more Ukrainians come to the Netherlands, it will squeak and crack more and more. The first 25,000 places were also more easily realized than the next 25,000 places. In fact, as I have just said, we are not yet in the next 25,000 places. We're in about 41,000 places now. That's 9,000 short. So it's gonna squeak and crack more and more. Only, Ukrainians are allowed to come to the Netherlands, because they have free travel. That's why the argument was just as interesting. They can be here by now. The temporary directive that has entered into force means that Ukrainians in a European country, sorry, an EU country, which I must stress, are covered by the protection rule for one year. We now see that about 3 million of those 5 million stay in Poland. Mr. Eerdmans also mentioned the other neighbouring countries, which are doing over-, over-, over- the vast majority of the shelter now. But if more Ukrainians travel from Poland to Germany and to us as the most western part of it, then they come here and we cannot say no. But there's no question that it's gonna squeak and crack more and more.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u84	Ukrainians may come here, but do we also want them to come here in greater massity? That's the question. Then we are not talking about our unmerciful hearts; then it is about their feasibility. Take the shelf life of our education. I'm just looking at the classes and the shortages of teachers that are already there. How does that work if Ukrainian children come here and have to go to school, and there are no teachers? Then I'm not even talking about the houses we were just talking about. Fortunately, the Minister of Education is here. What does that say about our capacity in that respect? We can say "there is a limit, but we park it on the moon for a while, because we don't really know about it," but that's a different sound than when the Secretary of State says "I think the tax is almost reached, or maybe we're already there. Reception will have to be encouraged mainly in Hungary and Poland, but not in the Netherlands, because we have a big problem with that." That can also be the look of a cabinet, instead of: yes, they can come here, so let them come.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u85	As the Netherlands, we are much lighter than neighbouring countries when it comes to the reception of Ukrainians. The two top players are Poland and Moldova. Poland is this because of the reception of most people, and Moldova because of the majority of people per capita, combined with the fact that Moldova is the poorest country in Europe. Poland and Moldova therefore have a much heavier situation than the Netherlands. At the same time, the cabinet does not seek to redistribute from its immediate neighbours across the other countries of the European Union. That'll do you a favor. But we also talked about this in the same way. I would like to say straight away that a number of the parties on the left have asked that Poland and Hungary should not be allowed to do so. They say, "No, we'll catch it ourselves." They clearly do not want that. There is also another component that Poland and Hungary do not ask. For they were against it in the past when the currents did not come from the east, but from the south. They are consistent in that sense, if I have to say something positive. At the same time, therefore, we have a duty to receive care when people come here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u86	Once again, support and respect for Poland and Moldova. That support must be given; so does JA21. That's what my plea is for. Let us support these countries in the immense tasks they face. But again, that's where it should be concentrated. We would do no different if there were a disaster in Belgium or in Germany. Of course we are the neighbouring country. The direct region is the move. That's what I advocated. But my point is: what is your dot on the horizon? I asked you to do that on a committee at the time. According to RefugeeWork, hundreds of thousands of Ukrainians are already travelling across Europe in safety. That is the warning of RefugeeWork Netherlands. A possible final destination is the Netherlands. What's your tax? Where is the limit in your experience?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u87	That limit is not in my opinion. That's not the same as saying it can only be unlimited. We must strive to maximise our support for the immediate neighbours. If you are talking about reception in the region, Poland, Hungary and Moldova may be a little more region than the Netherlands is, but the Netherlands is also the region in this case. And yes, in 1914 we caught 1 million Belgians, because we were the immediate neighbors. One million, huh, for clarity. In that sense, we are now very far from it. Now we're not the immediate neighbor like the Netherlands. We are the direct neighbour as the European Union and the region when it comes to comparisons with wars in Syria, for example.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u88	The Secretary of State continues his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u89	Mr. Brekelmans asked when it is possible to open an account for Ukrainians so they can work independently. Perhaps the Minister will say something about this when it comes to the conditions. From 1 April you can at least work. To open a bank account, the combination of a BRP registration............................................................................................................................................................................. That is a biometric passport; otherwise Mrs Podt will turn me back on. Mr. Van Dijk asks: how does the government monitor the private reception of Ukrainians? We see that we have two forms of private shelter. The first is the shelter through Takecarebnb, the Red Cross, the Salvation Army and Refugee Work. I'm just getting my iPad, because Mr. Eerdmans just asked me for the most recent figures on that point. Of course, he wants it very specific, so I'm just gonna grab the iPad. There are 26,000 of them and some of them we have as an option. The second concerns family members, friends, people who went to get people themselves. Most of them are now in the 'private private care', as I call it, and not in the municipal private care, i.e. the Takecarebnb group. For the Takecarebnb group one needs a vog. Then Takecarebnb also comes to your home to screen and looks: we find, apart from the vog, for example Mr. Van Dijk a reliable person, he has a house that is suitable for shelter and, if so, what is the house suitable for? One house is suitable to accommodate one person, in the other you can lose a family with a number of kids. Takecarebnb is very much looking at that. That's what gets those places. I don't have to do two things at once, because my password isn't accepted.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u90	You may also be able to look it up in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u91	I've got it in front of me now, Mr. Chairman. Then I immediately had Mr. Eerdmans. You see, it's good that I check it out: it's 23,120 places that could be accessed through Takecarebnb at 8,660 addresses. So that could be the case. I just mentioned the 42,000 people who are registered with the population register. We have no control over it if Mr. Van Dijk or anyone else simply has a family member, acquaintance or otherwise in the house. That is a very exciting, also in the light of human trafficking/abuse. There's tension on that. By the way, most of the people do so with good intentions, of course. But as soon as we get reports of it, we'll be able to deal with it. At the Takecarebnb group is one of the things we look at which activities have taken place at an address. You will understand that if not a good combination is seen as an address where a brothel is housed, a number of young, single women would be taken in. So the tricky thing is in the private care group, because we have little or no control over it, other than when there are reports. Mr. Azarkan is indeed... No, I'm gonna keep this question, because it's about the non-Ukrainians. Some things seem to me to have already been said, Mr President, so it suddenly goes faster. Mrs Kröger asked a question that was also addressed by others: what about the scenarios when there are 100,000 or 150,000 people? Right now we're at 42,000. On the basis of the starting point of 25 times 2,000 people through the municipal shelter, we can grow to 50,000. In addition, we have the Takecarebnb spots. We are only saying very emphatically that both the Takecarebnb sites and the private private places, as well as the public authorities, must be able to offer those places, because there is a limit to how long you can have a stranger in your home. That's why we're now looking at growth from 50,000 to 75,000. That is certainly not the issue at the moment, but we will see how we can do it. At the second point, which immediately hits the first, my right neighbor comes into view, because people are now in facilities that are not meant to be in them for a year or more. That's what my right-hand neighbor's gonna do. Of course we'll go along with that because I was a coordinator, remember? Getting started, for example, by using the National Real Estate Company to see if we can create more permanent places or longer-term places there than those temporary places. That can also give rise to a flow, because if they go from me to Minister De Jonge, I will say'me' for myself, but in practice it is just the municipalities that do this work that are free.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u92	A question from Mr Azarkan, DENK. No, isn't it? Just a walk.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u93	I mentioned the name Azarkan. It will be discussed, but within the framework of the non-Ukrainians. A combination of Kuik/Bisschop: why doesn't the cabinet choose to claim long-term vacant buildings? It is not at the moment and I would almost say that we should not want it to be discussed. 'Cause it's a big deal when you're gonna move on. By the way, progress is something other than expropriation, I say, because you still own the property when you claim. Just go "we," I'm just saying, use it, but you just don't want to, because it's a huge breach of property rights. It can be dealt with in the very, very, very, very, very last situation. Moreover, one of the largest property owners in the Netherlands is next to me, so let's look at that in that sense as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u94	Mrs. Kuik, CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u95	I totally understand that it's not ideal. Only, it's a call from several mayors and the VNG. That's why I was curious. If they say they see empty buildings that we can really use with this option, is that seriously considered? Because the mayors see that option as real.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u96	I think you should always take the mayors seriously, aside from the fact that Mr. Bishop I thought it was him, but if I wronged him, is that an accident, or was it Mr. Brekelmans? It pointed out that the security region mayors are not automatically the ones who are democratically elected and democratically legitimised. But you have to take these kinds of measures in extreme, extreme emergency situations. Check out what's happening at the interrupting microphone right now. Because you're violating property rights. If the need for a man is "man" of course a gender-neutral term "man" may be the issue, but we are not at all and you must stay away from it as long as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u97	I will give Mrs Kuik the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u98	However, here we are, because of course we have emergency legislation. Right now, when it comes to the reception of the Ukrainians, I can imagine in that line that mayors also say: we have been given a task to do this and we see some opportunities when we look at vacant buildings. That's why I didn't think it was a crazy question from that angle.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u99	No, but I don't want to suggest that Mrs Kuik's question or the mayors' question is a crazy question, so that's why I'm answering it. Although, also crazy questions I would answer. But I am not answering that question positively at the moment in the sense that we say: we are giving you that instrument as mayors. 'Cause it's a big deal.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u100	Mr Markuszower, PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u101	The Secretary of State says that if there's a need for a man, if there's a real emergency, it's ultimately an option for me to use emergency legislation to claim private property. Can the Secretary of State explain when such an emergency would have occurred, which groups and how many came in? Does this only apply to, for example, the Ukrainian refugees who are coming now, or does that also apply if huge quantities of asylum seekers from distant places continue to enter? Can the Secretary of State say that it is a question of what scenario he or the Cabinet is going to use that emergency law and could therefore claim private property?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u102	The default text is: if-dan questions should not be answered. Let me be very clear: emergency legislation cannot be used for the benefit of non-Ukrainians anyway. Emergency legislation cannot therefore be used for the group that you always describe reasonably flowery. This would be emergency legislation. So if it's on the agenda, then it's on the agenda in relation to Ukrainians. I promised Mr Brekelmans that we would do everything in our power to discuss this not only with Mr Brekelmans, but with the entire House of Representatives. Scenarios in the sense of "if, if, if" I don't have right now. So I can't answer that part of the question right now. However, emergency legislation is not used for the favorite groups of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u103	Does the Secretary of State agree with me that the Ukrainian refugees who are coming in now, if those numbers are large, may enter in large numbers, and the amount of asylum seekers who continue to enter at the same time and are already inside, are the profiteers and so on, communicating vessels? A bed is a bed. If an asylum seeker from Africa is on it, a Ukrainian woman with her child cannot lie on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u104	It is, of course, a fact that if you are lying on a bed, I cannot lie on it. So that statement goes on, but that is a fact. That's not what it means. Yes, we do see that there is repression, in the sense that it is easier for Ukrainians. In that sense, the PVV agrees with GroenLinks for once. There is talk of repression, in the sense that the arrival of the Ukrainians means that there are fewer places for non-Ukrainians. Apart from that, we are focusing on the fact that when we talk about additional forms of housing, non-automatic housing, namely the renovations of Minister De Jonge, we create additional space to prevent displacement in the ordinary housing market.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u105	I would like to return to my first question, the question that the Secretary of State did not really want to answer. I understand that in this debate, so I will let that go. However, I would like to ask, through the President, whether the Secretary of State will be able to explain to the Chamber in a letter in the first week following the May recess. We are talking about a great restriction of a fundamental right, so claiming private property. It seems logical to me that, in such a case, the cabinet does indeed have a sort of roadmap or scenario of when, in what cases, in what numbers and at what times the cabinet would be prepared to implement such emergency legislation that is seeking private ownership. So it is not just a question of dancing, it is a very fundamental point that has to do with the fundamental rights of Dutch people. It seems to me to be a very logical question whether the cabinet is considering this properly. That's why I'm saying it doesn't have to be right. I would ask for a kind of letter so that the Chamber and the Netherlands know what they might be up to in the short or medium term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u106	The short answer is: no, the Secretary of State is not prepared to do so, because these are not there. We do not have those plans or scenarios that the PVV talks about, like: if then, then that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u107	Your last interruption, Mr. Markuszower.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u108	I like to use it. I think the Secretary of State has then debated two different truths in this debate. The Secretary of State has indeed said in this debate but also in previous debates: 'If there is a need to be a man,' I say it in my own words 'if the pressure should be so high, the numbers would be so high, then perhaps in the very last case we are talking about the activation of emergency legislation which will also enable private property to be claimed'. I think that's Article 7 of that law: relocation of the population. So the Secretary of State certainly has a scenario in mind. I do not want to force the Secretary of State to come up with precise numbers and roadmaps now, but now that he has admitted that these ideas are there, it is a very reasonable request from the Chamber, from me and from our party, to put them on paper and to put them into practice, so that we know when we are going to get to what stage.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u109	It's not a matter of admitting, just to use that word. I have told you that such an exceptional situation can be discussed at some point. But I have also said that it is not at all on the agenda now, nor that there are scenarios where we say: if those three conditions are met at x, square meters y, et cetera.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... I can't send you something I don't have.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u110	Mr Van Haga of Group Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u111	This is really something to be alarmed about, that there is a VVD Secretary of State here who simply thinks it is a real opportunity to intervene so deeply in property law. Whether it's offices that are empty or homes that are temporarily rented out, that's a second. Can the Secretary of State at least guarantee that all other options must be exhausted before he makes this bizarre story? For example, all the vacant government buildings, if any, or vacant barracks, are exhausted and all the other solutions must be exhausted before this catastrophic device is deployed?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u112	Apart from the qualifications used by Mr Van Haga, this is the very, very, very last instrument you are using when all the other instruments are no longer working. I have already said this to Mr Brekelmans. What I say to Mr Brekelmans also applies to Mr Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u113	Then I wonder which other instruments you will first explore before we end up here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u114	As I said, when it comes up, it will be discussed. Then we'll come and see you. Before then, sometime tonight before noon, Mr De Jonge will go into that. He'll tell you what he's doing to get extra housing for the people we're talking about right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u115	This is a very bizarre debate. The Secretary of State simply says: no, when the time comes, I'll come back sometime, but in the meantime I'm not gonna tell you what I'm gonna do. I think it's really weird. It's a bit of a scab of the Chamber, I think. We're here to talk about the possibilities. We want to know exactly what the Secretary of State is gonna do before he violates property rights. And he just refuses to say anything about it. He says, no, I'll take care of that and I'll get back to you when I'm ready. I find it reprehensible!
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u116	I'm just gonna leave the qualifications for what they are. What happens is that it is said by several MPs: if, if, if, if... Then I can choose to give the blunt answer that I do not respond to any question that contains the word "if." I'm not. What I'm doing is trying to have a conversation as best I can. I had that with Mrs Kröger, but that goes for the whole Chamber, of course. Then there are some MPs who are going to explain it "if, if, if" in a negative way. Obviously, I'm in a different game than some of you. That's possible; that's what we call democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u117	Mr Jansen of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u118	First of all, I am disturbed by the state secretary's laconic attitude. I don't think it's appropriate for a secretary of state. It looks like he's taking more of a political role. I just don't believe it. I find it totally unbelievable. This cabinet is preparing emergency legislation in the most radical form, namely on the violation of property rights and on forcing municipalities to accept asylum seekers. Then there would be no scenarios about when that would be applied. That's totally unbelievable, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u119	A politician who is not allowed to conduct politics, I think that is a special form of criticism. I have a strong opinion. In fact, you're asking for that opinion of me in the cabinet, and I'm giving it to you. If you blame me for that, I find that a special reproach, apart from the fact that you cannot agree with me. I'm not being laconical about it at all. I admit you do think: do we really have a conversation with each other, or is it just rhetoric that is being expressed? That's what I'm reacting to. But I have everyone in this Chamber to take seriously, so also Forum for Democracy. That is without prejudice to the fact that we may or may not agree. That's one. Two: I say that I cannot share what is not there either with, in this case, Mr Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u120	Will the Secretary of State guarantee that these documents do not exist?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u121	What I have said is that we are coming to the Chamber at the time we are considering using this kind of far-reaching means. That is what I have promised, I believe to Mr Brekelmans, but also to Mr Bishop. The only exception that has been made is the exception already provided for in the law, i.e. the moment when this would not be possible for reasons of urgency. That is what I said at the beginning of my first term. That is a very special exception, but for the rest, in previous debates, in which FVD was not represented, I have already told the Chamber that if we are going to use this kind of thing, we will come to you first.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u122	Mr. Jansen, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u123	That's not an answer to my question. Can the Secretary of State guarantee that no scenarios have been prepared and that there are no documents on the basis of which the government decides when this emergency legislation will be implemented?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u124	We have not discussed such scenarios in the MCCb or in the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u125	The Secretary of State continues his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u126	If you don't mind, Mr. Chairman, I'm going to see Mr. Ceder. What do we do in the absence of a full identity card? So we're talking about not having a biometric passport. So what are we gonna do? Then we'll first see if there are any evidence documents, which will prove you are who you are. For example, we will contact the Embassy of Ukraine. But it could also be other documents. In that sense, Ukrainians do not differ from non-Ukrainians, because non-Ukrainians too do not have their papers, and they have to prove that they are Mr.Y or Mrs.X from countries A or B. If, in the end, all these doubts cannot be removed, then the regular asylum procedure applies, but we are talking about an exception to an exception to an exception. The inspection SZW is on my list, but I hear from Minister Schouten that it's on her list as well. That's what I thought; for some reason, I think SZW fits more with Mrs Schouten than with me. So I'm gonna skip it. Then I'll go to Mrs. Van der Plas and the vulnerable women. If you will allow me, Mrs Van der Plas, to broaden it a little, because some of you have not only mentioned vulnerable women, but also, for example, the Ihbti group. For the lhbti group we have a separate facility in the Netherlands, in this case somewhere in Amsterdam, where we have lhbti-Ukrainers. This has to do with the problems outlined by Mrs Van der Plas and others, which we sometimes see with regard to this target group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u127	It was Mrs Koekkoek, Van Volt, who asked this question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u128	Sorry, it was Mrs. Koekkoek who asked the question. I apologize for not mentioning Mrs Koekkoek's name in relation to the Ihbti people. For them we have an Ihbti location in Amsterdam. I have to look at Mrs van der Plas when it comes to women. For 70% of the Ukrainians who come to the Netherlands are women. What we are doing, therefore, is paying attention to this as much as possible in regular care, especially when it comes to single women coming here. There are also officials who pay close attention to this. But especially in the locations where one sits close to one another, for example, you think of halls.It is extremely complicated. Of course, that plays much less when we can use hotel rooms, for example. I say "we," but for clarity I note that "we" are of course the municipalities. I'm skipping a couple of questions that I've already answered in one way or another.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u129	There is another question from Mrs van der Plas from BBB.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u130	I think the answer is a bit general, to be honest. The Secretary of State says it's under close scrutiny. He also says that it's a little complicated when people are close together and that it's different when you're in a hotel room; the Secretary of State uses the word "if" himself now, I notice. My specific question is: what exactly is being done to really protect these vulnerable women? Saying that you find it complicated and that as much attention is paid to it as possible does not, in my view, guarantee the safety of those women. Couldn't it be that the men we're talking about, who are harassing or intimidating women, are just being put aside or just being taken away?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u131	Mrs. Van der Plas is right. I gave a pretty general answer. At the moment, I cannot give much more than the general answer that we are, of course, paying attention to that sort of thing. We don't have separate women's shelters and men's shelters. Men and women are in the big locations, for example in a hallway, indeed mixed, if I may say a little disrespectful. That is different when you are right, I may not use the word 'if'. One stays in a hotel accommodation, because then the woman, whether or not with her children, has her own room. Of course, the employees pay close attention to this. But the guarantee that it doesn't happen, we can't give it, not in everyday life, but certainly not in situations like this. That is without prejudice to the fact that Mrs van der Plas and I do not disagree in any way about its rejection and that you should act against those men if that is the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u132	Then I understand from this that, if they all say they belong to the Ihbti community, these women will be given separate accommodations. The Secretary of State can laugh at that, but I think it's weird. Of course it's fine that the Ihbti-Ukrainians have a separate shelter. They also need to be protected. But the same goes for women. They're just being charged, even though I might now leave a little bit They have to be lucky that there isn't some lunatic literally and figuratively breathing down their necks. From now on, I would simply recommend those Ukrainian women to say that they belong to the Ihbti community. Then the problem is solved, I guess.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u133	Apart from the fact that Mrs. Van der Plas herself said she was charging a bit, she's charging now. It's not a daily practice either. It happens. That's a big difference. Two: it is also not the government's policy to have separate lhbti locations. Also with regard to regular asylum seekers, it should be the case that someone belonging to the Ihbti community feels safe everywhere, including in azc's, including in the reception of Ukrainians. The same applies, of course, to women. For the sake of completeness, I would just like to mention that there is an Ihbti location in Amsterdam. So that is not the policy and the starting point, but there is. We must strive for locations where everyone, of any sex or with any sexual preference, feels at home, safe and good. We don't disagree on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u134	Now I also think that the Secretary of State is playing down a bit. He says, of course, it doesn't happen very often. No, sexual harassment doesn't happen very often either, but we also want to ban it. The Secretary of State says "well," but I hope that doesn't happen often. That's sometimes different, but I still assume that those are exceptions. The people it happens to have the right to protection. Again, I think it is very good that Ihbti-Ukrainians are in a separate shelter. I'm not questioning that at all. But why can there be a safe haven for that group and not for the Ukrainian women who are being attacked? From the answer of the Secretary of State, I understand that he is indeed aware that this is happening and that these are not just stories. But every woman that gets attacked, threatened or intimidated like that, there's just one too many. If it is a small group, what the Secretary of State thinks it is, then it must be quite easy to arrange a shelter for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u135	Firstly, I have the feeling that Mrs Van der Plas is seeking a contradiction with me which is not at all there. We agree that it is unacceptable, regardless of where that happens, if men behave towards women in a way that they should not. The only thing on which you and I differ is the extent to which this is happening in Dutch society. In my opinion, there are daily stories in which women indicate that they feel unholy about men. It is therefore necessary to take action against this. So there's no discussion about that at all. We have no difference of opinion on that either. If this is done in azc's, or in the reception of Ukrainians, then action must be taken against it. But we do not differ at all on this issue either. You're gonna have to grab a man like that with very sensitive parts of the body and act really hard on them. That's not a point of discussion between you and me. I am just saying that we have not said that we in the Netherlands are creating reception services for men and for women. Is it "take care"? Well, yeah. Fortunately, in a lot of cases, things are going well. You don't have to make that divorce. The people who misbehave... I wanted to make a move, but I don't think I should finish it. So we do not disagree, Mrs Van der Plas.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u136	The Secretary of State simply contradicts himself. He starts this argument with: I actually read very often that this is happening. At the end of the speech he says: yes, but it hardly ever happens. That's what I hear now. And again, if it happens very little but it does happen, whatever these women say, maybe they can even point out the people who are doing it, then I think: if it is such a small group, why can't we arrange a separate shelter for that? But on the other hand, the Secretary of State says it happens a lot. So I don't get it anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u137	I'm not talking about what Mrs. Van der Plas hears. I'll deal with what I say. Mrs Van der Plas and I both read newspapers and we watch television. Then we know that in broad terms, not specifically for Ukrainians, not specifically for non-Ukrainians, but just for people like you and me, there is sexual harassment. That is reprehensible and we must take action against it. This also applies to the group of Ukrainian refugees. There are men in there who don't behave, and then you just have to deal with those men. We don't disagree on that. All I'm saying is we're not creating a separate women's shelter. That's all I'm saying, but of course you have to deal with it. If there's a criminal offence, you're gonna have to put these men in touch with the remandad. If there are no criminal offences but they don't behave, then... Just one more example in the lhbti-angle. We're about to talk about it, but you know we transferred people from Ter Apel to Oss last week. At Oss, they were met by an administrator. A limited group of men came to the conclusion that the manager might be gay, which is also true. Who cares, I'd say. And those men then went to that administrator verbally misbehaved. You know what I'd love to do? A kick in the ass! Why don't you go find your own shelter? If you start like this with someone who's screwing up your bed at 9:30 p.m. at night, where do you get the guts to talk to them with "we're here in a free country and I don't like you"? We can't, because we have to provide shelter for that group too, but I would prefer to say, "My friend, you're sleeping outside tonight." No, we're gonna catch these guys. We're performing. We maintain where we can, whether it is the lhbti group of Mrs Koekkoek or... "Your women" sounds a little weird, but you know what I mean.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u138	I'm breaking the nugget, to tell you the truth.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u139	That fits in with your party.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u140	Sure, I just don't want to walk on broken clogs. Seriously. The Secretary of State is now setting an example of what happened in Oss. Someone's being investigated and intimidated. The Secretary of State says, "I'd rather kick his ass." Well, let him be Secretary of State and talk about that policy! But then he says: but we can't, because we have to catch them. I think there's just been a criminal offense there. I think it's just criminal. Threat, intimidation, discrimination: I think you could mention ten reasons to arrest someone like that. But what does this Secretary of State do? He says, "I'd love to, but you know what I'm doing?" I'll give him a bed. I'm gonna give him a bed, and I'm gonna leave him with that group he's chasing and intimidating. Secondly, I still don't understand why the Ihbti community can get separate shelter and women can't. This is therefore about women in general and not just about Ukrainian women. Why can't we do that for all female asylum seekers? That is not a question of not being able, it is a question of not wanting. It's a political choice to do it this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u141	On 22 June we will talk about asylum policy in the Netherlands. I would prefer not to deal with the troublesome asylum seekers right away. They'll figure it out! However, I have been alderman for a while and I always cried out: aldermen must do one thing, and that is to abide by the law. The same applies to State Secretary's office. We are still following the judge in this country and the judge has simply ruled that we should not refuse care and shelter for people who behave badly in azc's or around azc's. If it's up to me, right away. But I only have one thing to stick to, and that's a judge's ruling. When there are criminal offences, they must of course be prosecuted. That's what the police, the D.A.'s office and the judges are for. We don't have any State Secretarys for that, because state secretarys enforce the law and execute judgments of the judge. That's why I can't deny those pipos that have been misbehaving in the last week towards that administrator in Oss. I cannot, because the judge has said so, and it even goes beyond Mrs van der Plas's will.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u142	Mrs van der Plas also had the question: why can't there be a separate women's shelter?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u143	That's just impossible with the numbers we're talking about here. Besides, you shouldn't pursue it either. You must strive that people, whatever population they belong to, can always feel safe... No, we can be safe in the reception that we offer, whether it is social reception, asylum or the reception of Ukrainians.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u144	Mrs. Van der Plas, last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u145	Look, the Secretary of State can't sit on the judge's chair. I get that. But if the Secretary of State tells us the story of what happened there, and if he knows that there are simply criminal offences there, threat, intimidation, give it a name, then the Secretary of State with a ministry where thousands of officials also work, can ensure that someone reports them, for example, or that he gives an opinion on them? Of course, you can. You don't just leave people who do that to their fate. So I don't understand that and I really think it's a bit off to say: I hear it, I see it, but yes, I'm Secretary of State and I'm not the law, so I can't do that. You can make sure those people are helped. Secondly, I continue to complain; at least I do not think it is a pity, because I think it is quite right that I insist that for the women who are actually being harassed, who can simply state that and who can perhaps also point out the person who does so to them, there can also be a separate shelter. You don't have to put all women in separate care, because it doesn't happen everywhere. But when we hear it does happen and those women feel unsafe... Mr. Secretary of State, those women have little children with them! Those are just extra traumatic experiences on top of the experiences they already have. That's what I'm worried about. I find it so easy to say: yes, but we can't do all that. I can do that! It's a matter of will. It's a matter of political choice. It is a question of finding a solution, because these women are now simply left to their own devices and it is said: sorry, but we do not have shelter for that. While care has been provided for the Ihbti community. That too is a political choice. It's a good choice, but it can be done. Don't tell me you can't.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u146	I am simply sorry that we are in this Chamber regularly in a debate where I think that there are no contradictions, but they are still being published. There is no contradiction between Mrs Van der Plas and me and the cabinet when it comes to how you behaved in the Netherlands, not even in azc's or in the shelter. We can now repeat the words...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u147	We're gonna stop this now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u148	... but there's just no difference of opinion when it comes to abuses.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u149	I'll take a look at Mrs. Koekkoek, because I saw her heading towards the interrupting microphone earlier. And then Mr. Jasper van Dijk. They both agree, so that's nice. Mrs. Koekkoek.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u150	I thought, given the exchange, it might be good to try some kind of mediation, even if I don't know what to do about it. I do not think there should be any contradictions. But perhaps the Secretary of State can elaborate further on how such a separate location in Amsterdam was created for lhbti'ers. Perhaps he can also look into whether there is anything similar to be done for the group of women who are indeed vulnerable and threatened, as far as we have identified them. I specifically ask because, as far as I know, it is not customary to have a separate lhbti location. The fact that we do have that in the case of Ukrainian refugees is a good thing, but perhaps we can also take a step towards vulnerable women, especially because we know that many women have fled Ukraine, more than often from other countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u151	Mrs Koekkoek's wisdom makes me want to answer that line too. You are right, of course: it is not customary to have lhbti locations, precisely because the arguments I have just mentioned to Mrs van der Plas also apply to the Ihbti community. What has happened here is that from the lhbti community in Amsterdam the question has arisen, that the municipality of Amsterdam has indicated that it wants to cooperate, that municipalities are responsible for the reception of Ukrainians and that therefore the municipality of Amsterdam, together with the lhbti community of Amsterdam, has ensured that this reception is arranged in the city of Amsterdam. That's the way it happened. I'm glad you asked me that enlightening question. And Mrs Koekkoek is right: we don't normally do it. We shouldn't want to. What we have to want is for everyone to feel safe and that we don't expel the victims. If there's behavior that can't be tolerated, then you have to deal with perpetrators and not the victims.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u152	I think everyone at that point is going to find each other a little more. I have been standing here many times and also outside the refugee crisis in Ukraine calling for separate reception, because you often see that it is not going well at the reception site and that the COA does not have the people and the means to make it work. When I listen to Mr Van der Plas like that, I can imagine that this is now also the case with a very large group of women. I heard the Secretary of State, too. Is it then an idea to look nationally at how municipalities, for example Amsterdam, are tackling this, so that you can keep an eye on that vulnerable group, whether they are lhbti'ers or women, so that we can guarantee security, despite the fact that we ultimately want to have as a starting point that the victims are not placed separately?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u153	Of course we're trying to learn. I am truly pleased that you are interrupting, because it was simply not a pleasant debate between Mrs Van der Plas and me. I would very much like to fight Mrs Van der Plas a little rubbert if we disagree terribly, but I do not want any contradictions where they are not there. I want to find the connection that might just be there. And for the record, I am as guilty as Mrs Van der Plas, but you are addressing me now. We're just on the same page. Of course we just have to learn. Of course, we just need to see how we can improve things in the locations we have, whether Ukrainians or non-Ukrainians. In this Chamber we have many differences of opinion with each other, between you and me, between Chamber and me, but not when it comes to how you should behave with respect to women or, following your question, the lhbti community. We just don't disagree on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u154	I find this discussion about separate care for victims very uncomfortable, because before you know it, you are making infinitely many categories: Ihbtis, women, perhaps Christians and so on. Of course, you don't have to deal with the victims. You have to deal with the perpetrators. That's what I thought, because then the Secretary of State said, "I'd rather throw them out, but the judge won't let me do that." There is a very weak point in the policy, because a lot of people naturally feel this in the sense of: it is not possible that these bullshit trappers go free and that the victims have to go into separate shelters. There's the key to the solution. The Secretary of State doesn't have to lock those people up right away if they're not criminal offences. But can he at least separate them or make provision for them to cease to pose a threat to the victims?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u155	Yes, I can, and I would love to. We had that shelter, too. You have even just asked concrete questions about it. It's still in my pile somewhere. What we need to have in the Netherlands will be discussed on 22 June, because that is not specifically about Ukraine, but about reception in general. What we need in the Netherlands, in addition to a foursome Ter Apels, is also a number of sober facilities where we have to house nuisance groups. We need to get them through the system as soon as possible. There are often people who are not entitled to asylum, so the sooner you get it through the system in a sober shelter, the better it is. The problem is, however, that we will come back to the law that I am going to talk about later, because there are several people who have asked for it, that sober care in the Netherlands can only be done on a voluntary basis in the sense that municipalities have to say: do me a sober shelter. We had them in Budel and Ter Apel, but they stopped, because the congregations said: we have now taken our portion; now other congregations should take it. I happened to mention this yesterday with a number of mayors and I said: boys and girls, don't just help me with three additional registration centres and enough places for amv'ers. That's the group of young people, for the viewers at home. Because there is also a problem there when it comes to nuisances, standards and values, but that certainly also applies to the nuisances of safe people. I prefer to put them all in a sober shelter this afternoon, or in a shelter with enhanced supervision. That might be a better term. Then municipalities must be willing to have those locations. That's my job for the coming time. You and I agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u156	That is exactly where the discussion is about the possibility for this Secretary of State to really encourage such a municipality to do so. Because I totally agree with Ter Apel and Budel when they say they've had their share for a while. You don't want to know what happened there in terms of incidents, violence and aggression. Terrible. The Secretary of State would get me behind him completely if he said: I am now going to visit municipalities that have done absolutely nothing or very little. For you cannot continue to make phone calls and that voluntary basis for all eternity, because then we will wait for months and there will continue to be incidents, like last Wednesday, when you had to place last minute 300 people.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u157	I am pleased to have Mr Van Dijk behind me at least on this point and on this dossier. Because I'm not saying to you "I'm gonna do that," but I'm already doing that. We are going to come up with that law that does not fall under Ukraine, but under non-Ukraine, which will or will not lead to tasks and obligations. In the end, you and the First Chamber decide whether that law will come into effect, but not just the task for municipalities. In my view, this should also lead to the addition of three additional notification centres at regional level by'region', in this case North, East, South and West, so that Ter Apel is not the only one to suffer. We must then ensure that every province takes enough places for amv'ers via the provincial board, that in each province there are enough places with increased supervision or sober reception. I assume that you and I do not fall over the floor and that there are also enough regular asylum seekers. In that package, then, I will link with Mr De Jonge, who deals with the status holders, and we must also take into account the fact that status holders are adequately assisted in housing. As far as I'm concerned, we do that at provincial level, so that one municipality can say, "I'm going to get an amv shelter, you're going to get a sober shelter as another municipality, you're going to get an azc and you're going to get status holders. Hey, and you got nothing now? Then you do... and then we come up with something. That's what we need to talk about. Not on 22 June during the regular debate, but at the time that law comes. I'm gonna go into that in a second, but I'm sure you'll know how I feel inside my head. That is quite separate from the obligation that I have to say something about in the direction of Mr Brekelmans and Mr Bishop. Because I get their... comments; let me not qualify for a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u158	Let me ask the Secretary of State: how far are you with the answer? There are three other directors in trade union K.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u159	These papers, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u160	Then I'd like to ask the Secretary of State if he can answer compactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u161	Of course, some are going to be put aside.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u162	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u163	Mr. De Jonge still has to, so...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u164	We're much more alike than I thought, actually!
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u165	I'll wear normal shoes! We are going to look at Mr Ceder's question about the various kinds of things that exist, such as prisons and offices: has a minimum standard been introduced? Right now, there is and there isn't, but most of all not. With regard to those 50,000 places, we're happy with every place we get. In one municipality this is arranged in the form of hotels that are rented out. In the other municipality that happens in halls, and halls are by definition less fine than hotel rooms. Prisons for clarity, so that you and I agree: we are talking about empty prisons that are open in their own ideal locations. That's where you all have a separate cell. It's not about the word "cell" in the sense of prison for a moment, but you know what I mean. So at the moment we cannot say 'you must offer all this or this', other than that there must of course be shelter with bath, bed and bread. That is what we are currently providing as the first provision for asylum seekers. What you also see very strongly, is that the first reception takes place for example at the Central Station in Amsterdam which came just past.. or at the Jaarbeurs in Utrecht. Things happen there. That's where people can lie down in that big hall on a cot. The intention is to then transfer them to better facilities. Let me just say this: Utrecht is doing the very best in the Netherlands in all three areas, as a municipality, as a province and as a security region. I know Mrs Podt is now melting in her chair. I'm trying to put some things away again, Mr. Chairman. Mrs Kuik asked: who is in charge of the linking of aid organisations and municipalities? For the coordination of private reception services for the sake of clarity, I am referring to private public care, not private private care services, the Red Cross, Refugee Work Netherlands, the Salvation Army and Takecarebnb have set up a consortium; that is an ugly word, but it is. That consortium is called RefugeeHomeNL, by the way. They are responsible for this. That's what's going on right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u166	In the meantime, I had understood that they were screening the projects and the families. My question is, is there anything else in there? Do these organisations have to go to the different municipalities every time? Or is there another government coordinator who links that organization to the entire bulk of municipalities? 'Cause otherwise it's really bad...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u167	You'd almost call it an ambassador.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u168	You'd almost call it an ambassador, indeed.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u169	No, that's one-on-one done by this consortium with the different municipalities. You know we have the hotline KCIO. I've just lost the abbreviation. It stands for something like "co-ordination point information Ukrainians." I've lost the C now. "Coordination Centre" it will be. Well, that's not right either, 'cause then you've got a C twice. In any case, the KCIO serves as a question mark for all municipalities and establishes these links. Apart from that, the consortium assigns it to the individual municipalities. For the more long-term care, we have a national reception organisation set up, or.q. It's started. That's a co-production between Mr. De Jonge and myself. This is therefore coordinated at more national level for the whole of the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u170	KCIO stands for Node Coordination Information Ukraine.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u171	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I lost him for a second. Now we go to the block of Eerdmans, Bishop and Brekelmans. That's about the law we've been talking to Mr. Van Dijk about for a while. You know how I qualified that. So now I'm with the non-Ukrainians, Mr. Chairman. I believe that the reception of asylum seekers in the Netherlands should be voluntary. If we in the Netherlands are dealing with x-thousand or x-hundred people, I am not talking about the number, I should just say to the gentlemen on the right, we should say on the basis of solidarity: every community, i.e. a municipality, province or region, takes its share, a bit like I just described in connection with Mr Van Dijk's interruption. This should be done on a voluntary basis. I think it's a defeat that didn't work out. I don't know why I'm looking at Mrs Podt. But at least it is that part of the Chamber that has taken me critically with regard to Ter Apel last week. It can't be that we had to move 300 people from the tents in the Netherlands and that I was really still on the phone at night and to append. It's not the job of the Secretary of State to do that anyway, because those 300 people didn't have shelter yet? That happened last week. That's just a defeat. It just can't be. It shouldn't be. It is the reality; it proved that last week. That is why the security regional mayors and the King's Commissioner, in their role as sovereigns, told the cabinet in a letter: give us an obligation. That's different from compulsion. Because if you come up with an obligation for all the municipalities, as in the emergency law, for example... I do not want to discuss the system of an emergency law with Mr Bishop again. That is not the issue here either. But if there's a law that says there's an obligation for all the congregations, then, as far as I'm concerned, the effect is next. The three extra Ter Apels are not included. This should not be regulated at provincial level; it should be regulated at national level. After all, you only have four, or three, new ones. You'll take care of that at provincial level. You say "this is the job at provincial level" as far as all the things I just said to Mr. Van Dijk are concerned. "You, municipalities and the county, have to work this out together." As far as I am concerned, that should be the starting point of that law: not coercion, but an obligation. Force is really.. I look Mr. Brekelmans very deeply in his eyes.. an extreme rescue, and also no more than that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u172	Nothing to the detriment of your passion, but it should be really more compact, also considering the time. There are still quite a few questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u173	Great, this explanation. I can imagine that we are going to have this debate a number of times more often and that a number of times the frame will be removed from the closet that it is coercion imposed from above. I have just mentioned the following in an interruption debate with the VVD. I'd also like to ask the Secretary of State. Is it true that the intention is a response to a request from local or lower government?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u174	Yes. It can't be any shorter, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u175	Yes. I heard the Secretary of State had said it, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u176	We'll be brief, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u177	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u178	Towards Mr Van Dijk I say: on Molenweg number 3 in Ter Apel you will find the police station of Ter Apel. The station hasn't left either. I even have the opening hours for you here. But then the chairman's gonna get mad at me.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u179	Blame the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u180	I was pleased with the explanation given by the Secretary of State, in which he stated that it was an obligation for municipalities or provinces to distribute it across the Netherlands. The picture outlined is that, as part of that law, specific locations could also be designated, that buildings could be advanced and, perhaps even worse, that private property could also be required to be designated by the government. Can the Secretary of State indicate, in order to take away all the concerns and concerns about this, that this is not part of the law he is preparing for regular asylum seekers?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u181	Sorry, I don't quite understand the question yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u182	It doesn't matter. It's a repeat.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u183	To clarify, the Secretary of State says, for example, that we have 35,000 asylum seekers in the Netherlands. The law that he prepares is about each region, province, or whatever else he called the "community" taking its share in it. But it is up to the regions themselves to decide where the reception takes place. The picture that is sometimes portrayed in the media, or wider, is that this new law would also mean that it would be indicated nationwide: asylum seekers come to that place, in that office building or at that location. So do I understand the Secretary of State that this is not part of the law, but that it is only about the obligation for municipalities, or communities as he calls it, in a broad sense?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u184	It is obvious to say that every municipality will have it as its task. So that's different from Ukraine, because that's where it's the mayor. For the rest, I do not think that I should determine where it happens, but that the province in the role of the ruler should do so together with the municipalities. In addition, once again, there is an exception for the registration centres, the "Ter Apels," in normal Dutch. That is not possible at that level. That's gonna have to take you national.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u185	I was at the Millweg 3, because that was the address of the police station in Westerwolde, said the Secretary of State. I have been told that this agency does not comply with the rules of procedure, so it is not fully open either. But seriously, the real problem underneath is, of course, the lack of police capacity. The community's asking for 15 fte. That is very specific, but I hope the Secretary of State understands the message. In Ter Apel the center is overcrowded. This increases the insecurity, even in the municipality there. Then the least we can do is if we fail to open up other Ter Apels now, that we assist Ter Apel, or the municipality of Westerwolde, with sufficient police capacity. Is the Secretary of State prepared to extend it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u186	Just to be clear, about the only plus to what happened last week is that Ter Apel is no longer overcrowded. Ter Apel is now under 2,000, according to the agreements that have been made. The overcrowding and the images that have just been proposed by a number of people, among others by Mr Azarkan, were, to a large extent, correct, although not entirely, but they no longer do. In Ter Apel the agreements made with the municipality and the mayor are now fulfilled. Then police capacity and law enforcement. I know there's a law on labour, but I really don't know anything about it at all. I think Mr Van Dijk also understands that I cannot now make a commitment that there is sufficient police capacity in Ter Apel, at least that 15 fte he is talking about. That's beyond a simple secretary of state.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u187	However, we have already had many discussions with your predecessors about safety, i.e. insecurity, in Westerwolde and Ter Apel. Now the Secretary of State says that Ter Apel hasn't been overcrowded since this week. The vulnerable point, of course, is that next week it could be full again. That's the whole point. There is no structural reception available, so next week there will be new registrations that will fill Ter Apel and increase insecurity again. So my plea remains that we should do so. We are obliged to ensure safety in that community. He's not here right now. Then look for a solution, for example by increasing police capacity.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u188	I think the Secretary of State has said what he said about it. Then we'll go to Mrs Podt, D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u189	And besides, I always listen to Mr. Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u190	I'd like to check something out. We suddenly jumped off the lead to the police. I was wondering if I missed the answer to my question about bringing the law on the designation of regular asylum seekers to the Chamber earlier.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u191	No, you didn't miss that, because I didn't say it. I should. As soon as I can, I'll do it. Given the different opinions in this company, you can see that we have to do it carefully, but the sooner, the better.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u192	Careful is fine. That is what I said in my text. I am only a little opposed to the fact that we get the reconnaissance before the summer, then sometime after summer the law, that we then consult on it, ask for a State Council opinion on it and have the debate on it. Next thing you know, we'll be at the end of the year. I do not want to say that it will almost no longer be necessary, but that will of course take a very long time. So how are we gonna make it faster? I am prepared to accept my responsibility as a Member of Parliament to deal with this matter quickly, with the cooperation of my colleagues. But it's hard for me. So that's why I'm asking if the law can come to the Chamber before the summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u193	I'm afraid to say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u194	Perhaps you can come back to that in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u195	Yeah, I don't have to say that right now, 'cause otherwise I'm gonna get my ass kicked out of this room.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u196	Then we go to Mrs Kröger van GroenLinks. Your question will be answered in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u197	Ah, okay. My question is somewhat in line with that. In fact, the Secretary of State has just said: there is indeed repression by Ukrainians, which means that there are fewer places for non-Ukrainians. That was in the debate with the gentlemen on the right. That would, of course, be an argument for this emergency law, which we now have...The Secretary of State states that he understands the importance of the obligation for municipalities, as with status holders, to provide shelter. The emergency law provides that for Ukrainians. Then I will come back to what I asked earlier: what was the legal argument for not letting that emergency law apply to non-Ukrainians? At that time it was said that this changed in the MCCb, but the Secretary of State would return to the legal basis for that. Then I read in the decision note on the legislation of the emergency law that the possibilities were mapped out in March. So I guess there's got to be something on paper. Surely there must be some legal basis for what you decided in the MCCb, namely not to impose that emergency law for non-Ukrainians?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u198	I'll ask my officials to see if anything's been put on paper. I cannot say that Mrs Kröger is the first to get it if it is, but at least it will go to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u199	I would very much like that for the second term, because this affects the motions we are going to table. If the conclusion is that nothing has been written and that there is no legal basis for the decision not to apply that emergency law to non-Ukrainians, then I really would ask the Secretary of State to provide that legal basis. We have legal experts who say we can. Then it is a political choice. Then stand up and say: it's a political choice and I'm actually finding that I do need that law and I'm setting up a different path.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u200	I heard what Mrs Kröger said. That contained few questions and was mainly an argument. I think I just said I'm gonna have a look at it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u201	The Secretary of State will come back to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u202	Yes, and then I'm really going towards a conclusion, Mr. Chairman. We are not even halfway there when it comes to the number of cabinet members. Why can't the media get back to Ter Apel, asked Mr. Van Dijk. They can. The only thing is that the COA occasionally says, guys, stop right now. That also has to do with the privacy of the people in those tents. But of course the media gets to Ter Apel. There can therefore be no ambiguity about this. We live happily in a country where we can. And finally, Mr. Chairman. I'm just gonna grab the block with the questions from Brekelmans and Van Haga regarding safe folk. We have to do everything we can to get safe people through the asylum process as soon as possible, because in practice it turns out that safe people don't usually get status, and then we get rid of them from the system. As far as Van Dijk's questions are concerned, the same applies, otherwise I will wrong him. The problem is turning it off. Some people leave for their own country of origin or for other places in Europe or the world. The problem lies in the fact that many of these countries do not cooperate in the return of outlawed safe people from their country. I'll definitely go through with that. You have already mentioned the less successful points in recent times, so I do not count myself rich, but we agree that it must be done. That is also what the coalition agreement says about, namely what I now call "a root-and-stick combination', which is why I also want to see if you can make deals with the countries of origin. If it is specifically about Algeria's safe-lords, we sent you a final report on that point last year. There has not been much change in the situation in Algeria over the past period, so I am basing myself on the dates that I get from the Foreign Office. It is not obvious to change the situation now from unsafe country to safe country. You and I wouldn't have it any other way. Period.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u203	Mr Van Haga, Group Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u204	I had also asked the Secretary of State about the solution found by the United Kingdom and Denmark in the form of a deal with Rwanda. The Secretary of State has already said something about this to the NIS, in the sense that we cannot, the British can, because they are no longer members of the EU but in the Netherlands we could not because we are bound by treaties they are not bound by. That would be the reason why we would not be able to opt for that solution. But in 2018, the EU concluded a migration agreement, an important part of which is the plan to accommodate refugees in migrant centres outside the European Union, for example in North African countries; so it is just possible. I wonder why the Secretary of State is not simply doing this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u205	Mr Brekelmans referred to the Turkey deal. In my view, the Turkey deal is a good deal and you should strive for more Turkey deals, because they prevent people from making the crossing to Europe and ensure that they are caught up there and therefore do not end up in our system. What the United Kingdom is saying, as far as I can see, is that if they come into our country, we'll put them on the first plane to Rwanda. That is different from Turkey's deals, which I believe you should strive for and which not only Mr Van Haga but also others can expect from me. So we are talking about people coming to Ter Apel, just to stay in that example. Should you send it to Rwanda via Eelde Airport? That is not possible, and I would like to use a term that has already fallen a few times in this company. We do not want that as a cabinet either. That is a political choice, apart from the fact that it cannot go along treaty lines either. But even then, we wouldn't want it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u206	We've been listening to a very long story for three hours now, and now it's happening again. I am not asking for a Turkey deal at all; I do not care at all. The point is that other countries have come up with a good solution. So according to the 2018 Refugee Convention or something. So my question is, why shouldn't we be able to investigate that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u207	I just said, apart from the fact that I disagree with Mr Van Haga whether or not we can, that we do not want to.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u208	Mr Cedar, Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u209	Because this is coming back more often and there is a reference to Denmark - that is certainly good for the Acts - I ask how many asylum seekers Denmark has already sent to Rwanda or another country.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u210	Not to my knowledge. By the way, Denmark has had an opt-out when it comes to treaties. So Denmark can do things that the Netherlands can't. But I do not feel that this Danish point has been a success.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u211	That's right. For the Acts, the answer is zero.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u212	Thank you. Mrs Podt, D66, and then Mrs Kuik.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u213	Mr President, perhaps a point of order, because the Secretary of State said he was ready. I've asked six questions, which I'm pretty sure will fall into your folder. One of these will be dealt with in the second term and I have not heard the rest. So I'm willing to use interruptions, but that's getting a little too gritty.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u214	Perhaps you could ask your questions very quickly...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u215	(NL) Mr President, could you please also go to meet you a little bit, because I do have a pile of lying down first to go to Mr De Jonge? I go through the pile, I switch one-on-one with Mrs Podt and before closing the first term I come back.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u216	I think it is an excellent idea, and I think Mrs Podt has done the same. Then I'll go to Mrs. Kuik and then Mr. Brekelmans.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u217	On the subject of Ter Apel and the acceleration of legislation in relation to the perseverance force. What can the Secretary of State do in the meantime if we see again that Ter Apel has to do with peaks?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u218	Next week a number of additional locations will open in the Netherlands. Let me stay away from the locations for a while; a number of places open. That's what's gonna happen in the next few days. Apart from that, we also need to make more structural agreements. What we see is that at the moment one third of the azc's temporary locations are concerned. As a result, every time, I let these words be used, this misery.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u219	I understand very well that in the second term the Secretary of State will also come back to how quickly we can proceed with this legislative plan. But I want to make sure that in the meantime we do not allow this to happen to the Secretary of State, nor do Ter Apel every other month with the problem that people need to be redistributed at the last minute. So I'm kind of looking for a way to keep us from getting into that last minute situation every time.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u220	In the medium and longer term, we need to move towards what is also contained in the coalition agreement, namely a flexible organisation with a flexible shell, so that we are not always at 100% and therefore 100% + 1 immediately have these problems. And we have to make sure we're not at 100%, which at some point becomes 105 because there's a temporary shelter. We really must strive for more long-term care which can therefore be of better quality.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u221	Mr. Brekelmans, VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u222	Like Mrs Podt, I had asked a question about the relaxation of the family reunification procedure. That question hasn't been answered either. I would therefore like to include this question in the Podt trial.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u223	Secretary of State, we can't say you didn't have enough time to answer the question. But why don't we take this one, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u224	I know, Mr. Chairman. We do put him in the Podt trial.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u225	Then that's how we do it. I suggest we suspend for five minutes. Then we'll go to the Minister for Housing and Spatial Planning. I'm suspending the meeting until 4:06 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u226	I give the floor to the Minister for Housing and Spatial Planning. I'd like to ask him to answer the questions asked. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u227	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We're here as a team because it's also a team effort. Of course everything is under supervision, under the direction of colleague Van der Burg. But we're really gonna have to get this over with. This applies to the Netherlands as a whole and that also applies to the cabinet as a whole, because the job is simply large and takes place in a variety of areas, including in the area of housing. There we had a great job to do with each other. That job has only gotten bigger because of the terrible events in Ukraine. Everything we do to achieve rapid housing, we will now have to accelerate even further. The main theme is: transformation of real estate and flex construction. You have asked questions on both subjects. I'd like to answer that. This concerns, among other things, Mrs Kröger van GroenLinks' question and Mrs Podt van D66's question on how the National Real Estate Company can help. I have previously informed you that the National Real Estate Company has inventoried in its own portfolio which part of the real estate would be transformable. This concerns buildings that are empty and cover buildings that were already in the sale, but which have been withdrawn from the sale. At the time, I estimated that at about 250,000 square feet. In the meantime, 285,000 square meters are in the picture. Indeed, we are offering these square meters not only to local authorities for Ukrainians, which is a fair question from Mrs Podt, but also to the COA. The COA can also use the real estate to be transformed. The COA now sees potential in about 100,000 square meters of that 250,000 square meters, so it is 285,000 square meters with a focus on 60,000 square meters of that again, because this leads to a good spread across the country in the most promising buildings. The COA is currently talking about this with itself and with the municipalities concerned. Of course, the COA and the RVB work together with municipalities to get them operational as soon as possible. The remaining buildings are offered to the security regions. That's what we're talking about right now, in my opinion, about 80,000 square feet of it. The rest could also be discussed at some point. At least 80,000 of these seem to be reasonably viable. It has been agreed with the security regions that the RVB is also actively calling on municipalities to bring these buildings to the attention of the public, to offer them a view and to point out the financial compensation that will be needed for the renovation that needs to be done. If municipalities do not wish to use them now, they can always do so at a later date. Maybe it's not for Ukrainians, but for other attention groups, because it's just real estate that can be used. Unless the RVB, in consultation with the users on the national side, for example DJI, says: it is wiser to still sell the property. In short, we use the possession of the RVB, both for Ukrainians and for the COA, as well as for other attention groups that may need to be housed later. With the number of square meters I had put in the letter at the time, I had made an estimate of about 15,000 places. If you let the COA use them for regular reception, it may be that they become less spots, because you need more square meters for that. That 15,000 was an assessment based on first emergency care. If you do more regular commissioning, the number of places gets lower. As long as we use as many square meters as possible. Then the flex houses. In addition to transformation, flex houses are also a way to accelerate the achievement of the challenge. In the housing program you can see that we need flex houses to speed up housing. We need to get to that 100,000+ a year as soon as possible. We're pretty far away from there. We're up 80,000. We have to go to 100,000+ a year. I have estimated that we can get there in a number of steps. I expect we're gonna tap that 100,000 for the first time in 2024. Both transformation and flex will be part of that 100,000, otherwise we won't get it accelerated so quickly. We will have to build 900,000 until 2030, so we need to get to that 100,000 as soon as possible. My estimate of this year's flex share would have been 5,000, 10,000 next year and 15,000 in 2024. So flex is an explicit part of the 100,000. Mr Ceder and Mr Brekelmans point out that you simply need to speed up and that it will not happen automatically. Right now, we're looking to see if we can bring forward that acceleration that we'd spread over the years to come. We are trying to achieve as much as possible this year and next year. Why? Because at some point, you're going from shelter to housing. Let us hope that people will be able to return to Ukraine soon, but we must also assume that a large part will remain here. How much do we not know, but because we need more housing, because it is already very urgent for attention groups in particular and sometimes even is displaced, I would like to do everything I can to bring this flex construction forward. We do this first of all by looking with builders at what they need to further increase their factory capacity. I very much believe in factory construction and in flex construction as part of the solution. Factory flex construction reduces nitrogen emissions and requires much less labour force. In any case, that is a very good solution. So we talk to builders to hear what they need to increase their capacity. We also have a conversation with municipalities, of course, to find out if they have enough locations. Fortunately, there are a lot of municipalities currently looking at their locations. They look in particular at locations which were at any time intended for housing. In anticipation of this, it is thought that flex construction can be achieved via an accelerated procedure. Today there was a very nice piece in the Volkskrant about the municipality of Schagen. I see that example in many municipalities at the moment. My impression is that the locations are doing pretty well. But Mr. Brekelmans is right: if it stops, you must be able to identify locations. That possibility is in the law, when the real need is for the man and the public interest is under pressure. Of course, you never start on the side of coercion. You start on the side of a good conversation: how can I help you? We're at that stage now, but at some point you need to be able to identify locations, if it's really gonna stick. In addition, we are in conversation with corporations. Corporations will take charge of the management. At least that's the most likely party. Corporations are very sympathetic and enthusiastic about this. But they do have questions, of course, like municipalities. Is this really a good way to exploit it? Suppose the temporary location is actually granted only temporarily and you need longer time to make a project workable, how can you be sure that a guarantee will be issued if the flex houses cannot be relocated at that time? That is the type of support we will have to provide. I would like to say to Mr Ceder and Mr Brekelmans: for example, we are talking to builders, municipalities and corporations about how we could help. We have used the last few weeks to get a good picture of how that support is most appreciated. For example, it's about helping you evaluate locations, the standard procedures, so that you really make this type of designation of locations a standard, and additional expertise and extra hands to carry out those spatial procedures in a fast and good way. So it's about official capacity, about that type, very practical support. We now work them out in the design of a good support organisation. Of course, I work together with the building parties, the municipality, the corporations and, of course, Mr Van der Burg, because this is a follow-up to the shelter that is currently being organised by the municipality. So that must be a seamless transition. These are the support activities we currently have with regard to flex housing. Then there were a number of other questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u228	Before proceeding, there is another question from Mr Brekelmans of the VVD. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u229	Thank you for this clear statement by the Minister. I think it's a good approach. There is still a political question. Let us take the example of the Ukrainians. Now let's say this is what's happening. It now seems as if there will be a larger number of them in the short term. Then it may be the choice to use coercive measures to create shelters for them, but you can also use coercive measures to speed up those flexible reception locations, so that the flow is faster. Does the cabinet, this minister, agree with me that it is more desirable to move towards coercion in these flexible reception locations rather than using coercion in the reception of Ukrainian asylum seekers? The latter may even be broader, but the Secretary of State has said that he does not want to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u230	Within the scope of my portfolio, it's actually about housing attention groups. There we see that it is pressing, and that it is really pressing. We now have a problem with the accelerated housing of status holders. COA suffers from this, because it makes the COA much fuller than would be necessary if it were already housed. There are 13,000 status holders in the shelter at the COA right now. What we really need to do is to create more space for all attention groups at all, whether they are status holders, or later Ukrainians who become entitled to a regular place, or other groups who just find it rather difficult to get a place, for example outflow from the ggz or outflow from a DJI. In any case, we have a problem in housing attention groups. Whoever then becomes a problem, is the regular house searcher. Because if a too large percentage of the mutations eventually goes on, so I say between quotes, "Attention groups," then there is much less left for the regular people on the waiting list. In some municipalities there is, of course, an absurdly long period during which you are on the waiting list. In short, we have a great job to do, which was not born yesterday or last year and which really was not resolved next year. In this context, it is necessary to achieve more social housing, housing suitable for attention groups, and to distribute more fairly where we are going to set up these homes. I will come back to that shortly, in the housing attention groups program. But you're right: it can't be voluntary at the end of the ride, so you'll have to create a stick behind the door. Identifying locations to create flex construction, especially in those municipalities that are actually not taking their fair share at the moment in housing attention groups. Especially there, you would indeed want to create flex locations. At the moment, we are still in the stage where municipalities are very enthusiastic and I am very happy to look at this: where could we speed up our housing inventory, which we have anyway? In short, I agree with you that the stick behind the door will be needed. At present, we have some of them where the general interest is threatened, or in emergency situations. I think we need to look even more closely at a stick behind the door in the fairer distribution of the housing of attention groups; I will come back to that at a later stage. But I agree with you: it will not be entirely non-committal.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u231	I agree with what the Minister says, but I would like a more precise answer. This may also be possible in the second period. I doubted whether I should ask this question to the Secretary of State or to the Minister, because it is a question to the Cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u232	We speak with one mouth.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u233	You speak with one mouth, but my question is as follows. If we see that, in general, there is a shortage of reception and the first stage of housing, in other words flexible reception that can be used for this purpose, is the State Secretary using mandatory measures for asylum reception? Or is the Minister going to use coercive measures to set up accelerated flex houses? The last measure you might have to take a little earlier. My preference would be for the Minister to raise his hand at that point in time for these compelling measures and not the Secretary of State. My question is whether this is also the government's commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u234	When are you going to put in a compelling measure? If you want to break something that wouldn't be breakable otherwise. For both of us it is always a last resort, because we always want to get out by the normal route of administrative agreements. That's how we do it in the Netherlands. Of course you want to. When would you want to break it with a legal instrument? The moment it doesn't go down the normal road anymore. Then the question is what you really want to break through. If the issue is that there is simply too little housing and there are too few locations, then I think it is my instruments that I should take out. If the issue is that there are locations in itself, but that people are not prepared to receive status holders or are not prepared to provide room for asylum, then we must remove the instruments of the Secretary of State. The point is, what pattern do you want to break? That will dictate what instrument you get out of the closet. By the way, we will always want to choose the path of consultation and choose it over the road of compulsion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u235	The Minister continues his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u236	With one more question. Or no, two questions. Excuse me. Mrs Podt asks: large-scale locations will sometimes be necessary, but we still want to steer mixed living? The answer is absolutely yes. We have had a lot of bad experiences with this in the past at all times when we did not do enough. That is exactly what we are trying to break through right now. New neighborhoods are actually always built mixed. Sometimes it will be, often out of need, for more large-scale locations. But even in the transformation of state real estate, we see if we can also create a situation where, even when it comes to a larger location, we can mix into groups, if that's possible, because that's actually always the very best. Then the member Van Dijk. He does not consider it desirable that residents sometimes have to leave their temporary accommodation to house Ukrainians. I hear that sometimes, but it's very rare, it's my assessment. It is not possible in the case of regular leases, because this simply applies to rent protection. It can only be done with anti-cracking. In the case of anti-cracking, that happens to be true. Why were those people sitting there? Because it was anti-cracking because the building would be cracked otherwise. That's where temporary people were allowed to sit. Before those people got there, they knew it would be temporary and they would have to get out if a real destination for that property had been found. That has something acidic, you might say, but it's not entirely illogical either, because these people knew this in advance. Is it very common? No, that's not my image. Most of it is empty real estate that we try to make suitable.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u237	Technically, what the Minister says is right. But he also acknowledges that it can be unhappy. And it's basically a relocation of the problem. In this case, this is a situation in Alphen, which is indeed a temporary residence. The habitation would cease on 1 July, but now the mayor has said: we're going to extend it and then we're going to put Ukrainians in it. Then, of course, it becomes extra unhappy. Moreover, the problem is being moved, because people are being put out on the street while other people come into the homes. That's not gonna make any sense. Does the Minister acknowledge that this is not convenient, certainly not for that community?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u238	I'm sure that's acidic for people. It's just... it's just... it's just... it's On the other hand, it may sometimes be necessary. And for anti-cracking, it is really a choice of the people themselves to do that uncertainty, by living in a property managed by a real estate management organisation as an anti-cracking property. Then you know there may be a moment when you need to get out. In that situation, there is no rent protection. Otherwise, you can't have an anti-cracking device. An alternative would have been that the building had remained empty at all in recent years. That is an even less attractive alternative if people do need a place under the sun. In short, I acknowledge that it is acidic. I also recognise that sometimes a municipality or a mayor can't go anywhere, and then he has to make that choice. Then it's a matter of good guidance for the people. And most of the time, you can. Does that happen all the time? My image isn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u239	Finally, Mr Jasper van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u240	The painful thing about that is that there would be an end to the temporary habitation of that property, but that the mayor has now said: no, we are going to use it for longer, because there are Ukrainians and it is an emergency. I can see that right away. But then, of course, it becomes all the more unfortunate. I'd suggest trying to get out with that mayor: hey, this is unfortunate, you're putting people out and you're putting other people in there and this isn't done properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u241	I would just like to abstract the case of Alphen aan den Rijn, because I just don't know that case well enough. More generally, I agree with Mr Van Dijk that this is acidic, because you are actually trading in one temporary residence for another temporary residence. There's something acidic about that. I understand. Of course, a municipality can see that. But apparently that municipality feels obliged to use that building, because there is apparently no other building to be acquired. Apparently, there's just a need for use. Then I'll say: by nature, anti-cracking accommodation is a bit like a temporary situation and that if a better destination is found for that property, then your temporary use of that property will simply end. That doesn't make any sense. Of course, this is often the case with anti-cracking. Mr President, that was it again.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u242	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u243	I would describe it as'short and concise' myself. Right?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u244	That is certainly the case, and that is appreciated. I welcome the Minister of Justice and Security back in our midst. It's nice to have her back. I now give the floor to the Minister for Poverty Policy, Participation and Pensions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u245	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thanks also for the wide-ranging questions about the labour market, living money and other issues. I shall begin with a question from Mrs Piri. She asked: how is it that there is still so much uncertainty about the social security of displaced persons? I share with Mrs Piri that it is important that displaced persons know what they are entitled to. We're doing the best we can for that, too. Let me also clarify the rules that apply here. Currently, displaced persons from Ukraine who are in our country are entitled to a number of benefits within our social security system. A distinction must be made between those who work and those who do not work. In principle, displaced persons engaged in work and legitimate paid employment are covered by social security schemes. Here you should think about the national insurance, the AOW and the Anw, matters such as child benefit and child-related budget and matters relating to care, i.e. the Wlz and the Health Insurance Act, but also employee insurance. At the moment all that is still work in progress. For example, for child benefit, there is a requirement that a child should be in the Netherlands for at least three months. That's what the law says now. So at the time someone is working and the child is in the Netherlands for at least three months, the entitlement to child benefit will start from the next quarter. It's paid out afterwards. So you're just a little further. So it is not the case that that is already being paid out, but those are the frameworks that we are going to apply to the Ukrainians who work here. This is now being worked on, for example, with regard to surcharges. People are working hard to see what the possibilities are there. This is, among other things, childcare allowance, but also care allowance. So it is not all complete, but it is certainly the cabinet's commitment to doing so on these points. The displaced Ukrainians who do not work are not covered by national insurance and are not entitled to any supplement. That's why they're entitled to living money. With living money, the total is taken away. Conversely, the right to living money will lapse if the Ukrainians start working. Where there is still uncertainty among the Ukrainians themselves, I will, together with the municipalities, see if we can remove that ambiguity through the appropriate channels through which we can provide that information. I would therefore like to make that commitment to Mrs Piri. By the way, I just got the figures from Ukrainians who are registered at work this morning. That's 2,660 right now. Then there is the question of whether workers receive the protection they deserve. That was also a question from Mrs Piri, but Mr Van Dijk also asked. And what do we do to prevent labour exploitation and how do we ensure that workers are properly treated by, for example, temporary employment agencies? It is incredibly important that we avoid labour exploitation in general, but certainly also in this group of people who are in a vulnerable situation and who are looking for work and the opportunities for it in many situations. I would like to stress that, of course, it is primarily the employer's responsibility that there is no exploitation. But we have the Labour Inspectorate, and it inspects it, and it will maintain it if there are violations. It is also important to identify and reduce the risk of abuses, such as underpayment and poor working conditions. That's why it's important to keep an eye on the people who go to work. That is also why employers have a duty to report if they want to employ people from Ukraine. They must actively report this to the UWV, at least two working days before the start of the work. They must therefore report that they employ a foreigner on the basis of the exemption. There is no employment obligation, but they must report that they are using the exemption. The non-compliance with this new reporting obligation is also fine, under the Foreign Labour Act. In addition, the exemption from the employment permit is primarily limited to the pursuit of paid employment. This is because foreigners are expected to be better protected against abuses, such as underpayment. The minimum wage law and the minimum holiday allowance do not apply to self-employed persons. The supervision and enforcement of self-employed persons is more complex than in the case of paid employment. We must also ensure that the people of Ukraine themselves are well aware of their rights and obligations in respect of working in the Netherlands. That is why the information of the central information point Workinnl.nl is also translated into Ukrainian, so that people can read for themselves what their rights and duties are. Then there was the question of whether there have been any signs of labour exploitation. I would like to take Mr Ceder's question with me, because it is a bit along the lines of this question. At the moment there are some reports of labour exploitation known to the Netherlands Labour Inspectorate. He investigates these reports and gives follow-up to them wherever possible. Then there was a question about trafficking in human beings as a follow-up. The Trafficking and Trafficking Expertise Centre fulfils a national function in mapping signals from trafficking in human beings. They also keep track of what's going on. We do not have any information on this, but we do have information on the signs of labour exploitation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u246	Thanks to the Minister. I think this is an answer as we would like it to be. Only when it comes to labour exploitation, for example of EU labour migrants here in the Netherlands, do we know from practice that there are a number of very crooked employers that we cannot deal with with with the current capacity of the Labour Inspectorate. My question is this. Now that we know that very vulnerable people are often using women who are here alone or with their children in search of work, additional capacity at the Labour Inspectorate to check specifically with the crooked employers? In my opinion, the Labour Inspectorate knows very well who these crooked employers are.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u247	It is always the case that the inspection conducts risk-oriented research. An inspection does not go random everywhere, but has a reasonable picture of the risks. I do not know, I honestly say to Mrs Piri, whether additional capacity is being deployed at the moment. I can also check that for the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u248	Thank you. Mr Cedar, Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u249	It is tragic to hear that there are already reports or signals of possible labour exploitation. At the same time, it is also good that these signals have been detected. There is now no licence requirement but a notification requirement. Does the Minister think that this might encourage labour exploitation? Do these reports perhaps lead to a further tightening up to prevent more reports coming?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u250	I think, on the one hand, that we are looking for room for the Ukrainians to do paid work and, on the other hand, to ensure that they do so as safely as possible. That obligation of notification exists and if it is not followed, it is also punishable. So in that sense, there will also be a penalty. That's just to stick to where those people are and work. In addition, the Ukrainians are currently allowed to work as an employed person only. So they can't rent out. Mr Brekelmans had a question about that and I will come to that in a moment. But they are not allowed to rent themselves out as a self-employed person, because it is precisely at those times that you see that the chance and risk is greater in non-compliance with the minimum wage, holiday days and that kind of thing. In this way we are trying to offer opportunities, but at the same time we are dealing with them in such a way that there is a much greater chance that these people will not be exploited. I have already reported it, but I really come to Mr Brekelmans' question. He asked when there would actually be an arrangement for the Ukrainians to work as a self-employed person. We have the exemption from the employment permit, but as we have just heard in the debate, we must also be careful not to abuse that situation and not exploit it. Ukrainians are expected to be better protected against underpayment abuses. The supervision and enforcement of self-employed workers is also more complex in themselves than in the case of paid employment. Moreover, it remains possible for a client to apply for an employment permit for Ukrainians. We have the exemption, but clients can choose to apply for an employment permit. If this happens, it is possible to do this as a self-employed job. But then they just have to walk the formal route, the route they should have run if we hadn't given that exemption. However, it is possible under ministerial regulations to allow self-employment to be carried out without the need for an employment permit. This can be used later if we see that there is a clear view of the group and we know if there are sufficient safeguards against exploitation. But right now, we haven't chosen to do that. The last questions were about living money in relation to the level of welfare. Debt relief was also mentioned in this context. When drawing up the living allowance scheme, they opted for the living allowance scheme that they now receive at the COA. There is already a living allowance scheme and that scheme has not now been re-established. That living allowance is meant for people who are in the COA. We had to go further with a regulation that is quick and easy to implement for the municipalities, because the group is of course quite large and the need is immediate. That is why we have chosen not to incorporate all kinds of staplings and such into that living allowance scheme. If you do, you will increase the complexity and make it a very large and complicated task for the municipalities, also due to any complex set-offs and so on. I hear, among other things, Mr Jasper van Dijk say: but there is still a difference between the level of assistance and the living money that people get. I would, however, like to point out that, for example, the people receiving living money are not entitled to child benefit and child-related budget. If you add those kinds of amounts together, you'll get another unequal comparison. Moreover, the people who receive living money are either in the municipal shelter or in the private shelter. That's where you have to deal with other costs of life and... In short, it is quite complicated to compare all these amounts. But for the sake of short, we have joined a living allowance scheme that just already exists. Scenarios have been asked for, for example, what we're going to do if it's all going to take longer. There is, of course, already thought about what it would mean for assistance if you go to a situation that is longer than temporary. That is already under consideration, but no choices have yet been made. But it's not like we don't think about it. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u251	Thank you. Then we'll go to the Minister for Primary and Advanced Education. I thank the Minister for Poverty Policy, Participation and Pensions. But before I do, well, yeah, me? I give the floor to Mrs Kröger to say goodbye to this Minister for one final question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u252	About the very last thing the Minister said about that temporary stay. In principle, people under the temporary directive are allowed to be here for three years. Is the way in which it is now regulated with that living money in the eyes of the cabinet something that applies for those three years? Or is the Minister talking about a shorter period when she talks about "temporary"?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u253	There are no final choices yet, but we are looking at what the situation will be if the group really stays longer than six months or a year. So no choice has yet been made to join those three years or not, but I can imagine that, if it is going to take longer and the situation is starting to become more semi-permanent, we are going to make real choices about what that means, for example, for converting living money into welfare.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u254	Thank you. This brings us to the end of this minister's term. The Minister for Primary and Advanced Education is taking over. The floor is up to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u255	Mr. Chairman. From one day to the next on the run. Leaving your home, your village, but also your school, your boyfriends, your safe learning environment. That is almost impossible for us to imagine, but we do see it in the eyes of thousands of students from Ukraine who are now coming to the Netherlands. The least we can do is provide them with a safe home, but also immediately provide them with a somewhat safe school environment. That is what we are doing right now in a lot of places and that also works in a lot of places. First of all, I would like to welcome these students here, but also to express my appreciation for all those people in schools and in municipalities who are working incredibly fast and hard to achieve this. You know that the challenges in education are very great, even after two years of corona. But that can be done in so many places and so quickly, that is worth an incredibly great compliment and I would like to have said that here. Mr. Chairman. A number of questions have been asked about the newcomer facilities and the temporary facilities we have set up, the support by our Ministry of Education, some questions about the future, including a vision, and about measures for students. I will return to that in that order. Let's start with a couple of numbers. Of the invaders in the Netherlands from Ukraine, 36% are underage as far as we can see. That's what we say based on JenV numbers and then we make an assessment. It now comes down to the fact that we already have here in the Netherlands between 11,500 and 12,500 students from Ukraine. We can also see how many of these students are already enrolled in education. There are about 7,300 of them, but there are already many more who are going to land in education and get acquainted with education. Before they are actually enrolled in that school, a few days pass. You also see in many places that students move. Then they start in a host family. That's what we're seeing now in Harkamp. A lot of people go somewhere else and then the school is something that comes only afterwards, but in many cases very quickly, and that's nice. There is a great deal going on through newcomers' schools and also in international linking classes for secondary education. We also see that they have the hardest to offer everyone a place. Where this is not possible, we have said that we are setting up temporary educational facilities. This has already happened in a number of places in Eindhoven, Arnhem, Ederveen, Amstelveen. Sometimes this is in a very old school building, where sometimes even the heating is not working yet, while education is already being given. It works in many places and that goes according to the concept in which we say: about a third of the program is the acquisition of the Dutch language. A third is vocational education, often also in Ukrainian. And a third is focused on the social-emotional situation, the processing, but also sports. That's actually aimed at making each other something of a safe and also more cozy environment and to find some distraction from the daily intricacies that still play out. Mr. Chairman. A number of questions have been asked by your Chamber, among others by Mrs Podt. She asked: can the cabinet promise that children will not be without education and day care? Of course, I can't guarantee anything in education, but it's very handsome what's going on right now. If we continue with that schwung, I can't imagine that we can't do it. But of course it depends on the numbers, so how many people here need education. So we're in the middle of something. We now have no signals that it is not working in certain municipalities. We also have a dashboard. That'll keep an eye on it. We are also watching closely with the VNG and Ingrado, among others; that is the club of compulsory education officials. We have also appointed coordinators for each region within OCW who are accessible to schools, but also help where things are difficult.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u256	It's gonna go wrong. Now I have to use an interruption. This question was not about Ukrainians. This question was very specific about Ter Apel. So this is the answer to a very different question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u257	That is indeed a very different angle.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u258	We're not counting this interruption. Can you answer the question now?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u259	I am going to do my best to get back to that at the end, but I must honestly say that I am referring to the letter sent by the Secretary of State of JenV this morning. All kinds of answers have been given. It's not for nothing that he gave those answers, but I'll try to say something about it in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u260	Maybe I can suggest another solution. The Secretary of State is about to answer a number of questions. Maybe the Secretary of State can take this question right away, also because it's his letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u261	I'd like that. We'll figure out a way to work this out in the meantime. I hear the Secretary of State is happy about it. Mr. Chairman. Then there is a question from Mr Cedar of the Christian Union. He asked: how will language lessons be provided? I have just said that one third of the temporary provision programme is language-oriented. We also do this in regular newcomer education. There are a small 400 schools that were already used to providing newcomers with education. There are wonderful examples of that. That's where people get used to it. With this expertise, language is also taught in the new temporary facilities, i.e. in the new schools that are sometimes being pounded out of the ground. Then there is a question from Mrs Van der Plas. There seem to be problems in regular education with Ukrainian children. They can be difficult to come with sometimes. There is also sometimes racism. Mrs van der Plas also mentioned an example. We do not recognize that particular example. We are therefore not aware of such signs of racism. I think they're important. So we'll definitely be alert. However, it is well known that the other part of the question is that it is sometimes difficult for students from Ukraine to really come to a regular school. That is precisely why we have said: we want children to go to newcomer education. The idea behind that is that you can land for a while, usually with children of different nationalities together, learn something from the language in one or two years, sometimes process something with each other and then take the step towards regular education. That does not mean that there is no one at that regular education. We'll see about that. Then we also try to help with outpatient assistance, including through LOWAN; you quite rightly said so. But it's our preference... because at some point it can be disruptive for a class. I think you're right about that. In the beginning it may be thought "we can do that and we will do that," but it is not so easy if you don't speak the language and there may still be all kinds of things playing in your life that make it very difficult. These things may require attention at school, which cannot always be offered as well. That doesn't mean nobody's trying, because that's the case. Everyone is doing an incredible job, but sometimes it is good to let that fall into the hands of those who have the greatest expertise. So we use this expertise in regular schools, but preferably we place children in the newcomer schools. By the way, we also have an extra budget for the outpatient care. So in the schools where we have to do this, we will also make real money available to get guidance from LOWAN or another expert. So we're not gonna say, "We're not gonna do anything." We do a lot of things. It takes a lot, but that's what we're offering. Then there were a number of questions about the Ministry's support. For people who look at this debate and work in education or want to provide help, also from municipalities, it is good to know that we have a website, namely educationvoorukraine.nl. Through that website there is a lot to be found about organizing lessons and the use of teachers from Ukraine. The latter happens on an ever larger scale and that is very nice, but it also sometimes requires some help. That's where we're offering it. We do that by phone, but also by e-mail. We have coordinators who can be registered for that. And we also have LOWAN. That foundation rightly referred to Mrs. Van der Plas. It is also important that there is additional funding for these students. That is also in a higher frequency than usual, because if those students come in now, you need money for that now. That is what is provided for. It is also important to mention that we have made money available for student transport. It is not so easy to get transportation arranged if you live with a host family in a certain village, for example, and you have to go to a city. That money was made available through the municipalities. Municipalities can therefore organise that transport as well. Finally. We published a hand-out for schools and municipalities yesterday. There are actually answers to a lot of questions that you have when you get this done. It says how you handle it. I would like to refer everyone to this hand-out, because agreements have been made for this in conjunction with all kinds of organisations in primary education, secondary education and inspection. Schools sometimes ask: do I have that inspection right on my roof? We have corrected that with very clear help in that regard. So that help document can be found online. Mrs Van der Plas specifically asked about the support from LOWAN. Three FTEs are currently working on primary and secondary education, and six are added. So at LOWAN, they go to nine FTEs. Questions have been asked about the vog for Ukrainian teachers. Can we speed up the release of that? Everyone who works professionally with children needs a dog; we think that is important. The past has shown that there are also many good reasons for considering this important. But here, of course, is the question: is that going to happen soon? We saw now that you'd be in the regular process and it wouldn't be fast enough. I understand that JenV is now also accelerating on specific vogs for the teachers. So there is also speed in that. There was also the question of the recognition of professional qualifications. That is indeed one thing, because it is of course desirable that we have as many qualified and competent teachers in education as possible. We all see that it doesn't happen immediately when the need is high. Then we have to be creative. There's that room. There's also room to anticipate if you're already applying for recognition. That goes through DUO. You can anticipate that by already finding a form to help in education, with support from other teachers. In that hand-off, we indicated how that could be done. So that's gonna help there, too. Nevertheless, we will speed up the process of recognition of diplomas at DUO, because of course we need a lot of good teachers anyway. So if we get those good teachers faster through faster processes, then we definitely have to choose for that. That's what I'm saying. Finally, a preview. Then I'll come to the Ukrainian students. Questions have been asked about them, too. We are, of course, preparing for all kinds of scenarios. At the moment we are assuming those 50,000 refugees, but we will also have to be flexible, even in this situation, but possibly in other situations. We will also have to see how we can organise this in education. I'm just saying, it seems like we're doing that very easily now, but it's not easy. It's a huge job and that task won't get any smaller. So we're gonna have to be very creative. Hopefully it will happen very often quickly, but sometimes it will take longer. So I'm probably gonna put in a disclaimer, too. What we're seeing now is very nice and I'm happy with it, but I'm also taking it up a bit for education. Because if the numbers get bigger, then the challenge is really big. And it comes on top of that bucket of drops that's already in education. We are also looking at whether we should introduce newcomer education and specifically those temporary provisions even more clearly into legislation and regulations. And should we also have something up our sleeve when we get a large influx of people here, and we get that education more difficult to organize? So how can we ensure that schools are created? We are now preparing an emergency law for this. We hope to conclude it soon. When the proposal is complete, we will send it to the Chamber. Ms Kröger van GroenLinks asked about the Minister's vision of education if people stay longer. I think I have said a number of things about that. We now receive children in newcomer education. There are specialised teachers and there is intensive language training. Students eventually move on to mainstream education. But that of course depends on whether students stay here as well. I've spoken to a lot of students, often through parents. A lot of students write and sometimes they also make drawings of this social-emotional development. Then it says a lot: I want to go home. I think that reflects what a lot of mothers and children have their deepest wish. I can only understand them well, but that does not mean that in the meantime we are not doing everything we can to restore the first steps towards that brighter future through education. After one or two years, if that's so long here, it's normal that you also go to regular education. There was also a question from Mrs Kröger whether we should use that quiet reserve. Yeah, we do, actually. I like to see it, too. For example, I was in Arnhem at a school where in two days they had 120 reactions from people who wanted to help and 16 immediately hired them to work there. They now have combi classes with someone from Ukraine and someone from the Netherlands. There was also a child psychologist there. That is, of course, the perfect combination in such a class and they know how to organize it there. There were also a number of pensioners who wanted to participate, but also people who had previously worked in education and had been refurbished for a while. They saw this again as an opportunity and opportunity; they wanted to help. We see that the offer is quite diverse and I only like that it succeeds. Finally, questions have been asked about Ukrainian students. I would add that that is the area of the Minister of OCW, Mr Dijkgraaf. So I'm going to do my best to answer you. First of all, why doesn't the Cabinet ensure that Ukrainian students can also study with study funding? For higher education, first of all, we always, as usual when a student comes here, also assess whether the pre-training is appropriate. Then educational institutions themselves will be responsible for admission. In addition, there is also a diploma rating. The recognition of qualifications is now an attempt to speed up and tighten up, so that these students can also be admitted more easily. In addition, however, the Cabinet is currently investigating which facilities and claims fit and can be realised in the temporary protected status of Ukrainian displaced persons. That is actually a bit of a repetition of a discussion that I think we have just had from the Secretary of State. A number of institutions are now exploring the possibilities that you can do even more right now. This concerns, for example, online education, but also specifically tailored programmes: minor programmes, for example. Those are programs that are not graduate-oriented. In this way we try to help current, but also upcoming students in different ways. You will be informed in the short term by the Minister of OCW about specific provisions and how we are going to do so. That's part of a bigger discussion that's not just with OCW. Finally, I will take the answer to Mr Ceder very quickly, because that was actually what this was about, about legal tuition fees. That's actually in the same corner. We investigate which facilities and claims fit and are feasible. You will soon be informed of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u262	This example is precisely the illustration of what the legal uncertainty entails for young people of 18, 19, 20 who want to continue their lives here, even though they may be there temporarily, we all hope so. But in that temporality of your stay here you do want to be able to study through, if you want to just find a job, you just want to be able to take care of your family. We all know that the school years for higher education begin in September. In any case, can the cabinet promise that there will be clarity in time? We must ensure that these people here do not have to interrupt their education for two or three years because they cannot pay the tuition fees and do not receive study funding. We'll have to take care of that properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u263	I am referring to the debate that has taken place today. I really understand the question. We're gonna get one. You must therefore distinguish between students in higher education and in MBO, secondary and primary education. In primary and secondary education, you are subject to compulsory education. Regardless of residence status, you will receive education. That's what we're offering. That's what that part was about. The following applies to higher education: If you allow the facilities to be the same as for the other asylum seekers, the conditions of entry remain the same. They don't change, not even for the right to study funding. This is different for higher education than for MBO. For the MBO you do have those forms of adult education you mentioned earlier. It will also depend on the title, how it changes and what facilities you link to it. It is partly a political question whether you are in line with the regular provision package or whether you are taking a more generous approach. In both cases, there will not be so much difference in higher education, unless we look at it now, and you choose to take a more generous approach. We can also say immediately: we do not do that. But no, we're saying we're going to see if and, if so, how we can do that. It's a formalistic thing I understand, but I have to say that we're going back to the Chamber on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u264	Mrs. Piri, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u265	I am glad that the Minister is also more or less pleading for legal certainty; just do the temporary protection directive. Then we have clarity for the people who are here now, who have no way of continuing their lives. They're young adults with trauma, from a war situation. Let me now turn to regular primary and secondary education. Is it true that a distinction is made by the Empire in the right to education, depending on whether you are being received by a municipality or by a private individual? Those are the signals we're getting.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u266	I don't know them. Can you specify something about the right to education? Those students in Ederveen often came from host families. They go to the same school, in this case in Ederveen, as those who were in the Harkamp or in another facility. I do not think there is any distinction there, but perhaps you have a specific situation in mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u267	I understood from a number of local administrators that the right to education is regulated when you are in municipal care, that education is arranged there, but it is difficult to register at a school when you are in private care. But if that is not known to the Minister, then I hope that is not a problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u268	I hope so, too. It may also be that I don't know but that it is a problem. That's what I like to hear. I'll check with us, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u269	Thank you. I think you've come to the end of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u270	Yes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u271	I shall now give the floor to the Secretary of State for Justice and Security, because he also has a number of questions to answer. I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u272	Mr. Chairman. I was just too short of dust, too. Mrs. Podt first, but Mr. Brekelmans is also being discussed. When it comes to the Russians applying for asylum in the Netherlands, we are looking at whether we need to adapt the current country policy with regard to Russia to the current situation. Until then, the IND will hold decisions on Russian asylum applications, unless it is clear that the asylum application must be granted. That's one. Two. When it comes to Moldova, we are one of the countries that has already taken over people. That's ten out of 27 right now. As far as we are concerned, there should be more and all 27 countries should do so. Those ten have taken over 20,000 people from Moldova. We argued on 28 March that these other countries should also take over people, and I will continue to do so. Only in the next phase will we discuss whether and under what conditions more should be done. Then there's autonomy. Then you're talking about all the asylum seekers. There's a difference between Ukrainians and non-Ukrainians. That temporary directive applies to Ukrainians. Apart from the legal paper they have to fill out, which you might see as a kind of asylum procedure starting, they are not asylum seekers, but they have that temporary protection right away. At the moment, I do not intend to give asylum seekers, and I am talking about non-Ukrainians, extension of rights. In that sense, there is a difference, to make it concrete, between Ukrainians and non-Ukrainians, and by that I mean people who are not from Ukraine, for clarity, so the regular asylum seekers. That is where we need to ensure that the asylum process is completed as quickly as possible, because they will either become status holders or they should leave. Then there is the administrative burden. We are talking to the VNG and the Security Council on behalf of the Dutch municipalities to see how we can reduce the burden. I am referring specifically to how we can eliminate them in the context of the commitment and to removing bottlenecks. And then I have one more question from Mrs Podt: can the law on the power of designation for the summer be sent to the Chamber? The honest answer is no. We're just hard at work, but this is actually some kind of system change, because you're going way beyond who you're going to do that to and how? I have just outlined to Mr Van Dijk, who is no longer here, what we are all thinking about, but that is quite something when we do this. So I'm gonna keep the pace high. It's faster than I'm talking, but I can't say yes right now, because I'd have to live up to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u273	Thank you for your answer. Well, then, I'm going to put my question to you in case of interruption. I made a point about kids in Ter Apel, the amvs.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u274	Oh, yeah!
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u275	I had asked the Secretary of State if he would give us a regular update, because I find the situation really worrying anyway. We've seen what the Children's Ombudsman said about that. As a result, I would like the Secretary of State to consider the three-month period. I understand that this deadline is the directive, but if children in the Netherlands do not go to school for three months, then we are going to be very concerned. I would therefore like to call on the Secretary of State to look at a form of education for these children for as long as this situation is as it is. That may be digital and that may be other things, but I think the coaches mentioned in the letter are not enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u276	Yes, Mr. Chairman. I believe that we are allowed to distribute many feathers to the College of Westerwolde, in general, but also to this point. The alderman Youth of the municipality of Westerwolde, who also deals with education, has now offered us additional facilities for this group together with the local school. I'm gonna go that way again soon, but we already see that Westerwolde is more than her or his.. what is it? It's gonna take some responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u277	Mrs Podt, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u278	Well, very nice to hear. This can then be included in the first update, so that we keep a bit informed about how that is going to happen in the coming time.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u279	Yes. One more question from Mr Ceder and one from Mr Brekelmans. Mr Ceder had a question: the municipality should finance the private shelter. At least that's how I interpreted it. We don't recognize that at all. As you say, Mr President, I would like to answer Mr Brekelmans' question. Meanwhile, he's walking to the microphone. Mr. Brekelmans had another question about the IND relief. For the sake of clarity, these are temporary measures to eliminate the current stock. So it's not about a structural situation. It is therefore not a question of relaxing. What we do here is, in the case of followers, to have the conversation not with all individuals, but at once. But we keep doing it carefully. For all the reasons that I have discussed with you and the Chamber before, we need to overcome the backlog not only at the back, when it comes to status holders, but also at the front, when it comes to the IND. That is why we have taken this temporary measure.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u280	Mr Cedar, Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u281	Let me turn to the previous question. I'm gonna try and explain it right. Maybe I'm wrong. Maybe the signal's wrong. Municipalities indicate that if a Ukrainian private person is taken care of, no living money is given; a municipality would have to cough it up itself. That's different if Ukrainians are taken care of differently. As a result, a policy of discouragement can be put in place to deal with Ukrainians on the one hand and leave the other. If the Secretary of State does not recognise that, then perhaps I will return to that in the second term, but that was the signal we heard from municipalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u282	I don't recognize this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u283	Then I'm gonna "retake" this, as I'm used to.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u284	Thank you, Mr. Ceder. Then we'll go to Mr. Brekelmans, VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u285	Yeah, about the temporary relaxations to get rid of the high stock. The Secretary of State says: we're not going to do the hearing one-on-one, we're going to do it in large groups. There have also been reports that, for example, a DNA study will be conducted less often. And there is also talk of other relaxations. Do I understand the Secretary of State correctly that the only temporary relaxation is that the hearing does not take place one-on-one but possibly with several people, and that of the other relaxations that are being discussed is out of the question?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u286	No. We are not talking about larger groups, by the way. It concerns the people who belong to the nuclear family. So it is not about larger groups, it is about family members. That is one of the two measures. The other is exactly what Mr Brekelmans says, and it concerns DNA research in people who have no papers to find out if the child is theirs. In this case, we're talking about the man. We also do this because we find that DNA research hardly leads to the conclusion that the child is not of the designated father. And if that turns out to be different on a number of occasions, it leads to a marriage crisis rather than a fraud finding.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u287	Finally, Mr Brekelmans.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u288	Could it perhaps be that this is not being abused, precisely because we have these DNA tests, so that people know: it doesn't make sense, because in the end we run into the light? Could it be that the risk of abuse is much greater, precisely because the Secretary of State is about to abolish it? I would like to ask a second question. This is about this temporary solution, but in addition, the policy has also been adapted following a ruling by the Council of State. That statement is only about Eritreans. The impression is that its conclusions are being applied more widely, i.e. for family reunification in general. Can the Secretary of State indicate whether this structural adjustment is really only about Eritreans?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u289	We're talking Eritreans. That's right. That's one. Two: we're talking about the current stock. So it makes no sense if you travel with "fake children" to the Netherlands now, because then you will not fall into the category current stock and not in the category Eritreans.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u290	I missed an answer to a question about access to basic health care for Ukrainians. Questions have been asked about that. My further specification was: a subsidy scheme for medically necessary care for uninsured persons is now being sought; what is the state of play? I'm asking you right now. Otherwise, I would have done so in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u291	It's true that there's a connection to that. In this sense, their treatment is equivalent to that of regular asylum seekers. In addition, they also have access to ggz care, given the traumas that may be there. But that is also what I answered in response to the debate last week. I think that was towards Mrs Van der Plas.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u292	Does that mean that it is now settled, that there is now access to both basic care and more complex care?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u293	Then we need to be just as precise when it comes to "more complex care."
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u294	For example, ggz care.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u295	Then the answer is yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u296	That basic care, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u297	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u298	I missed two more answers, and they were about money. The first question was about the European Commission, which has made funds available in various ways. This will also monitor the registration and, as previously indicated, how municipalities are supported. My question was specific: does that money reach the municipalities? I have asked for this in previous debates. So far, it's been a little unclear. There are a lot of rulers now, so someone probably knows where the money is. My second question was about Poland's request to set up a separate fund for support and how the Netherlands stands in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u299	In answer to the first question: one gets as a municipality from us I say "ours" but you know how it works that is €100 per bed per day. Per bed is something different than per Ukrainian. We have to cover the cost of this. Apart from what else happens, one gets €100 per bed per day; period. One has to pay for everything.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u300	And the question about Poland?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u301	Can I come back to that in the second term?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u302	The question behind the question was specific: is it from the additional budget available that has been released? That was not clear. Many municipalities indicate: we have to take care of things and we do not have enough budget. However, additional funding has also been made available from various European funds. I think that's complicated.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u303	But that money goes to countries, in this case to the Netherlands. We pay €100 per bed per day, so €700 per week, unless municipalities indicate that this €100 per bed per day is not enough. Then we'll make specific arrangements. As I said, we have not yet discussed how we are going to cover it. I am in a luxurious position that I am simply spending, of course with the permission of the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u304	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the first term. I suggest we start immediately with the second term of office. In accordance with the Van der Staaij working group, we agreed that the standard would be one or two motions per group. I'm just trying to remember that. If you set a standard with each other, then of course you have to meet it! So two motions tops, but of course you don't have to. I give the floor to Mrs Kröger van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u305	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the five directors for their reply. In any case, it has become clear to me that there is still a great deal of need for these scenarios and an image of what we are heading for in the longer term, especially if this group grows larger, and how we organise it. There has already been a necessary exchange of views on who is responsible. In any case, I hope that we do not have to have many debates with five directors. Mr. Chairman. I have one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the Cabinet provides for a financial arrangement for the costs incurred by municipalities in receiving Ukrainian displaced persons, but that there is a growing lack of capacity in municipalities to maneuver reception sites and civilian business desks and to provide support in the social domain;]] [[whereas municipalities are relieved as state real estate not by municipalities, but is converted by the Empire itself into a reception location;]] [[calls on the Government to make short-term proposals for the entry into service of state real estate for the reception of Ukrainian displaced persons and to make available, on request, to municipalities capacity and expertise to support municipalities in the realisation and operation of reception conditions, and to inform the Chamber thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kröger, Mr Koekkoek and Mr Piri.]] [[She's getting No. kst-19637-2859]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u306	I have an open question on the legal balance with regard to emergency legislation. I expect a response from the Secretary of State in the second term, also because we have held a motion on this subject, which we will then have put to the vote. So I look forward to the official documents that form the legal basis for the decision to allow emergency legislation to apply only to Ukrainians.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u307	Thank you, Mrs Kröger. Then we'll go to Mr Van Haga of the Van Haga Group. I would like to point out that Mr Eerdmans is going to apologize for the second term and that Mr Goudswaard will be speaking on behalf of JA21 shortly.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u308	Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to develop scenarios to prevent buildings from progressing and to inform the Court of Justice as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government, in cooperation with the VNG, to prevent the cancellation of leases of companies by municipalities for the reception of Ukrainian refugees,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government, in consultation with landlords, to prevent (temporary) housing rental contracts from being terminated due to the reception of Ukrainian refugees,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the EU Migration Agreement of June 2018 already agreed to receive refugees in migration centres outside the European Union, for example in North African countries;]] [[calls on the Government to address the reception of migrants in migration centres outside the Netherlands,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga.]] [[She's getting No. kst-19637-2860]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga.]] [[She's getting No. kst-19637-2861]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga.]] [[She's getting No. kst-19637-2862]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Haga and Smolders.]] [[She's getting No. kst-19637-2863]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u309	And the last motion still holds you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u310	Thank you, Mr. Van Haga. You've made quite a lot of motions. I think it's nice that you didn't table that last motion. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Piri of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u311	Mr. Chairman. I hear a big sigh in trade-K. No, I'm not.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u312	I don't think that has anything to do with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u313	No. I would like to thank all the directors for answering the questions and for the debate. I think that the government's commitment to the proper reception of Ukrainians in the Netherlands is very good and very visible. The work done in schools, by civil servants and many private individuals is also fantastic. I think it is right to stress this here at the end, because otherwise it seems to have been a very bitter debate. I do not agree with the political choice made by the cabinet, namely not to opt for a clear legal status with a temporary residence permit, but to create strings. We hear that a number of regulations still need to be devised. This means, for example, that there is no right to study funding, that there is no right to travel freely in the EU after six months and that the driving licence for Ukrainians cannot be renewed after six months, and that is why I will also have my earlier motion on this subject put to the vote. Maybe the cabinet feels inspired to look at this one more time. I don't have any motions of my own. I have signed a number of motions, including those of Mrs Van der Plas on the students. I am still waiting for an answer to the question about the Labour Inspectorate in the second term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u314	Thank you, Mrs Piri. Then I give the floor to Mrs Podt of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u315	Mr. Chairman. I too would like to thank the members of the cabinet. Today, of course, it is a process in all areas. I'm sure that's not easy in this room, but I'm sure it's not easy on this file either. I believe that the rulers have been very helpful. So that's the first thing. I've been talking about autonomy. For D66 that is really a central point. What can we learn from how things are different now? I understand there's another legal basis under there, too. As far as I'm concerned, that doesn't matter at all. So I thought it was rather amazing that the Secretary of State would say: we are not all going to give new rights right away. That's not my point at all. In particular, I wanted to ask him the question: is there a willingness on the part of the cabinet to learn from the good effects, for example from being able to participate, as the Ukrainians can now? I think that can only be positive. We've talked a lot about the clue. I would really like to underline one more word, and that is 'hurry'. Now I understand better that the process costs a bit of alignment, but I really look with a heavy heart at all those people who are being moved over and over again. Hurry! Finally, the amvs. I very much welcome the commitment to education for amvs. We really need to ensure that all those children who are entitled to education get that. I had a motion, but I'm not going to file it, because I got a very nice commitment. In that sense, perhaps I'll compensate for Mr. Van Haga's motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u316	Mrs Podt, Mrs Kröger van GroenLinks has a question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u317	Mrs Podt is in a hurry to ensure that the municipalities are simply given an obligation to arrange for that shelter. Well, actually, there's still no legal basis for why you can't just do that in that emergency bill. Perhaps the Secretary of State will come up with something in the second term, but it will surprise me. I therefore hope that D66 will support our motion which calls for that emergency law to be applied to non-Ukrainians as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u318	I'm a little different in that. I got convinced by the story I just heard. I am always open to all forms of information, so if there is anything else that brings me to my mind, then I am certainly open to that, but at the moment I think that the Secretary of State has kept a good story, namely that there are really two other things going on. Then I still agree with you that we must ensure that both groups do so as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u319	Mrs Kröger, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u320	What legal argument did Mrs Podt hear that I didn't hear?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u321	Oh, my gosh, I should have kept my notes. I owe you one, Mrs Kröger.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u322	So none.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u323	Thank you, Mrs Podt. Then we go to Mr. Jasper van Dijk, SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u324	Thank you for your reply, Mr President, in which one member of the government was a little more widely spoken than the other. I would particularly like to congratulate the Minister for Justice for her concise reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u325	That was two for the price of one, I must say. A little bit, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u326	That's right. Mr. Chairman. Ter Apel. We really need to do something there very quickly, because the crisis is very intense and security is at stake. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas security is at stake as a result of the reception crisis in Ter Apel;]] [[noting that in the municipality of Westerwolde, of which Ter Apel is a member, there is a broad wish for more police deployment;]] [[calls on the Government to make an urgent proposal to increase the police deployment around Ter Apel,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Jasper van Dijk.]] [[She's getting No. kst-19637-2864]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u327	Then there's another motion on the living money. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that refugees from Ukraine receive €60 per week living allowance;]] [[noting that there are groups in the Netherlands that have less than €60 per week of living money, such as welfare recipients, people under debt management or in debt restructuring;]] [[Considers that there is a need to avoid skewed eyes between refugees and people in the assistance;]] [[calls on the government to realise that the living allowance for all groups is €60 per week,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Jasper van Dijk.]] [[She's getting No. kst-19637-2865]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u328	Mr President, I regret to say that I have to apologise. I have to go to another obligation, but the answer is carefully monitored.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u329	Thank you, Mr. Van Dijk. I now give the floor to Mr Brekelmans, VVD. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u330	Thank you to the cabinet for answering all the questions. Five people strong, but as a Chamber we were able to ask all the questions we wanted to ask and get a good answer, so I thank all those present for that. I would like to make two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the Cabinet intends to use migration partnerships with third countries to control migration flows and achieve return;]] [[Whereas, in view of the agreement between the United Kingdom and Rwanda, it seems possible to conclude migration partnerships with third countries;]] [[calls on the government within the EU to actively promote more action to conclude migration partnerships with third countries, to lead them where necessary, and to engage with the United Kingdom in order to learn from their experiences,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Brekelmans.]] [[She's getting No. kst-19637-2866]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u331	Then my second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the ruling of the Council of State of 26 January last concerns only family reunification from Eritrea;]] [[noting that the IND also intends to temporarily relax the procedure for family reunification for ongoing applications to achieve time savings;]] [[considers that rapid procedures are important but should not be at the expense of care;]] [[Whereas relaxing the procedure for family reunification entails the risk of more people coming to the Netherlands who are not part of the nuclear family and are therefore not entitled to stay in the Netherlands;]] [[Calls on the Government to apply the recommendations of the above-mentioned ruling of the Council of State of 26 January only to family reunification from Eritrea and not to apply in a general sense to family reunification policies;]] [[calls on the Government to reverse the planned temporary relaxation of the family reunification procedure,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Brekelmans, Mr Eerdmans and Mr Bishop.]] [[She's getting No. kst-19637-2867]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u332	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm filing four motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u333	How much did you say?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u334	Four motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u335	The standard is one or two, but go ahead. They can also be arrested, withdrawn, taken over. We have different tastes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u336	Okay. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that the United Kingdom and EU Member State are going to transfer asylum seekers to partner countries such as Rwanda for handling their asylum application;]] [[whereas the Netherlands should adopt this approach;]] [[calls on the Government to take the necessary steps to deal with asylum applications in partner countries, as in Denmark and the United Kingdom, instead of in the Netherlands,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Goudswaard and Mr Eerdmans.]] [[She's getting No. kst-19637-2868]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u337	Second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that the United Kingdom and EU Member State are going to transfer asylum seekers to partner countries such as Rwanda for handling their asylum application;]] [[Whereas this method may be the solution to the structuralally high influx of asylum into the Netherlands;]] [[calls on the government to examine which elements of this partner country strategy can be taken over by the Netherlands and to inform the Chamber of how they can be implemented,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Goudswaard and Mr Eerdmans.]] [[She's getting No. kst-19637-2869]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u338	Third motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that, thanks to its opt-out to a number of European directives, EU Member State Denmark is better able to implement an effective own asylum policy;]] [[whereas this would also be of great added value for the Netherlands;]] [[calls on the Government to make an opt-out at the earliest opportunity, so that the Netherlands is no longer bound by the Asylum Procedure Directive, the Qualifications Directive, the Reception Directive, the Family Reunion Directive and the Return Directive,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Goudswaard and Mr Eerdmans.]] [[She's getting No. kst-19637-2870]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u339	I still have a very small motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u340	No, you're really through your time. The same applies to Mr Van Haga. Excuse me. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Koekkoek van Volt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u341	Thank you. Two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the current form of care does not meet the minimum standards for care and especially for children who need a stable, quiet and safe environment for healthy development;]] [[Considering the significant risk of development damage in children due to stays in large-scale locations, frequent relocations and lagging attention to care and psychosocial assistance;]] [[calls on the Cabinet to express its support for the priority position of children and their families in the transfer of large-scale locations, such as Enschede, Leeuwarden and Schinnen, to stable, safe and small-scale asylum shelters,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Koekkoek, Mr Kuik, Mr Ceder, Mr Podt, Mr Azarkan, Mr Piri, Mr Kröger and Mr Van der Plas.]] [[She's getting No. kst-19637-2871]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u342	The next motion is a little longer. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the number of referrals of Ukrainian refugee children to the Children's Protection Board in the Netherlands is significantly lower than in other European countries;]] [[Considering that it is likely that a large group of unaccompanied children will not be identified and registered, with which they are at increased risk of becoming victims of exploitation or trafficking in human beings;]] [[Whereas adequate, centralised information and information on the identification of unaccompanied children, as well as the importance of referring this group of children to the Council for the Protection of Children, is lacking;]] [[calls on the Government to present a plan for centralised information and information on the importance and need for the registration of unaccompanied refugee children;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that the appropriate knowledge and skills are present in the municipal care facility in order to be able to identify and guide unaccompanied children,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Koekkoek, Mr Van der Plas, Mr Podt, Mr Kröger and Mr Ceder.]] [[She's getting No. kst-19637-2872]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u343	Mr. Chairman. Two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the flow into the asylum chain is stalling and leading to distressing, unsustainable situations in, for example, Ter Apel;]] [[Whereas, in order to remain socially and fairly able as the Netherlands, on the one hand, and to maintain control over migration and future flows of refugees, on the other hand, we need to emerge from the current impasse;]] [[Whereas a good distribution across all regions, flexible handling of peaks and declines, for example by maintaining reserve collection capacity and enabling the rapid and creative deployment of vacant real estate and increasing the number of login centres to contribute to this;]] [[calls on the Government to come up with scenarios to accelerate the implementation of the Action Agenda Flexibilisation Asylum Chain in order to achieve a robust asylum chain based on future asylum and refugee crises, and to submit them to the Chamber for Princess Day 2022,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering the importance of coordination, registration and screening in order to manage the reception of Ukrainian refugees, to monitor proper reception and thus to prevent trafficking in human beings/exploitation;]] [[Whereas work is under way to establish a Directorate-General at the JenV Ministry after the current crisis structure, and clarification on the direction of coordination and communication is now needed;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure coordination between departments in order to ensure efficient and efficient coordination of reception and national guidance on linking municipalities and aid organisations screening private initiatives,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kuik, Mr Jasper van Dijk and Mr Ceder.]] [[She's getting No. kst-19637-2873]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kuik, Mr Cedar and Mr Koekkoek.]] [[She's getting No. kst-19637-2874]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u344	I thank all the cabinet members for their reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u345	Thank you, Mrs. Kuik. Then we go to Mr Jansen, Forum for Democracy. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u346	Thank you, Madam President. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Netherlands already suffers from a housing shortage of 300,000 houses;]] [[Whereas status holders automatically have the right to self-determination and, even in most cases, are given priority over a home;]] [[calls on the Government not to grant residence permits to Ukrainians, but to direct them to reception in the region,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that Dutch students have been placed from their temporary residences for the purpose of housing Ukrainian refugees;]] [[calls on the Government to identify the number of people who have been removed from their homes, to forward these figures to the Chamber and to assist those affected with a new home as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Jansen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-19637-2875]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Jansen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-19637-2876]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u347	And a very brief one, Madam President. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to remove the housing obligation of asylum seekers for municipalities and also to end all municipal priority schemes for status holders,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Jansen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-19637-2877]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u348	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u349	I shall now give the floor to Mr Ceder, Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u350	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I assume it's two motions per ruler. No, that was a joke, but she can't hear it. Mr. Chairman. I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there is a housing shortage in the Netherlands;]] [[Whereas for Ukrainian refugees and status holders, residences are also urgently needed;]] [[Whereas temporary flexible housing may be a temporary solution for providing additional housing quickly, but municipalities face legal obstacles;]] [[calls on the government to take stock of the legal obstacles encountered by municipalities that hinder the rapid construction of such flexible housing and how they can be removed,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the reception of refugees is a national task;]] [[Whereas the Kingdom has requested mayors to take on this task through the Reich's Relocation Act;]] [[calls on the cabinet to consult with municipalities on the longer-term consequences of the reception of Ukrainians;]] [[calls on the Cabinet to establish a single point of contact for the full, simple and real financing of all expenditure incurred by municipalities,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Ceder, Mr Brekelmans and Mr Kuik.]] [[She's getting No. kst-19637-2878]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Ceder, Mr Podt, Mr Kröger, Mr Piri, Mr Bishop, Mr Azarkan, Mr Koekkoek, Mr Van der Plas, Mr Brekelmans, Mr Kuik and Mr Jasper van Dijk.]] [[She's getting No. kst-19637-2879]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u351	Mr. Chairman. Then I have one more question about private care. In the letter of 6 April, the State Secretary writes that municipalities and security regions receive a standard amount of €700 per week per realized municipal shelter. This standard amount does not apply to private care. My specific question is: how much euro is that? My assumption was that this is zero, but maybe that's different. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u352	Thank you, Mr. Ceder. Then we go to Mr Markuszower, PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u353	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Netherlands is destroying the mass invasion of asylum seekers from Africa and the Middle East;]] [[Whereas the Government intends to use coercion in the reception of asylum seekers;]] [[calls on the Government to never apply coercion to the reception of asylum seekers and to proceed to a total asylum and immigration stop from Africa and the Middle East;]] [[calls on the government to move all these fortune seekers beyond our borders,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Markuszower and Mr Wilders.]] [[She's getting No. kst-19637-2880]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u354	Thank you. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there are several documented cases of women in (emergency) shelters affected by sexual harassment and threats;]] [[Whereas Amsterdam successfully manages to safely and separately accommodate Ukrainian lhbti asylum seekers;]] [[calls on the Government, in cooperation with local communities and municipalities, to implement the possibility of separate and safe reception for women in (emergency) shelters that are intimidated and/or threatened, where it appears that their safety cannot be guaranteed on the other hand, and to inform the Chamber of Representatives of this interpretation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas Ukrainian students wish to continue their studies at a Dutch institution;]] [[Whereas a group of Ukrainian exchange students has been in financial difficulties as a result of the war;]] [[Notes that to date insufficient measures have been taken to accommodate Ukrainian students in their studies and study-related financial matters;]] [[calls on the Government to make study funding available to Ukrainian students and the influx of these students in h.o. and to realise MBO as soon as possible;]] [[calls on the Cabinet to reduce the tuition fees for Ukrainian students who stayed in the Netherlands at the start of the Russian invasion for upcoming academic year to the amount paid by students from the European Economic Area (EEA),]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Plas and Mr Koekkoek.]] [[She's getting No. kst-19637-2881]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Plas and Mr Piri.]] [[She's getting No. kst-19637-2882]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u355	I would like to put another question to Mrs van der Plas. The issue of intimidation just came up in an interruption, but then I didn't have the opportunity to ask the question. Doesn't Mrs van der Plas really think it would be a huge defeat if we had to separate Ihbti and women? Does she not agree that the norm should be in the Netherlands, especially towards newcomers, that we should mix groups, that men and women should sit together and that, if men behave badly, they should be tackled and set aside and we should not turn around by putting women apart?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u356	Sure, it's a huge defeat. I'm completely embarrassed that it has to be like this. But my first priority is that these women are safe. It's en-and and not or-or. We definitely have to deal with these guys, but that's just not gonna happen. It just doesn't happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u357	Thank you very much, Mrs Van der Plas. Then we go to Mr Bishop of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u358	Madam President, thank you very much. First of all, thanks to the directors for answering the questions. I would just like to make a point about the point made by Mr Kröger, namely the legal balance underlying the choice of recourse to the emergency right. I'd like that document, too. And if there is no ministerial document, then I want an official document, because it cannot be true that no careful consideration has taken place before this instrument was chosen. I am therefore happy to endorse Mrs Kröger's request. Then I have one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Cabinet has activated the People's Movement Act for the purpose of receiving Ukrainian refugees;]] [[Whereas there is broad social and political support for the reception of Ukrainian refugees in the Netherlands;]] [[whereas the Council of State indicates that this is a matter of state emergency law, that it should be used with restraint;]] [[Whereas voluntary reception is preferable to the use of mandatory emergency rights;]] [[calls on the Government to refrain from using mandatory emergency rights through the People's Movement Act,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bishop.]] [[She's getting No. kst-19637-2883]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u359	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u360	Thank you. I'm suspending the meeting for ten minutes. Then we move on to the second term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u361	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the reception of Ukrainian refugees, the second term of office. A few more questions have been asked and a number of motions are to be welcomed. I shall be the first to give the floor to the Minister of Justice and Security.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u362	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thanks also to you and to the Members of Parliament for being so generous that I was allowed to go back and forth this afternoon; let me put it this way. I have four motions and one question. Let me begin with the question by Mrs Kröger and Mr Bishop on the legal basis. If the House agrees, I would like to say that before the votes we will come up with a letter in which we will get what is and what is not. Then the MPs can take a good look at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u363	I would like to look at Mrs Kröger van GroenLinks and Mr Bishop van de SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u364	I would like a letter, but in particular I would like to see the official documents that led to the decision to apply this emergency law only to Ukrainians.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u365	I heard the questions right. Just because I want to take a good look at what's going on and what we have, I'm going to admit that letter. I have heard the question correctly and we are now going to see how far we can get with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u366	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u367	Thank you. I have motions here on the items Nos. 2860, 2864, 2879 and 2883. I shall begin with the second motion, and that is the motion in part No. 2860 by Mr Van Haga, who is not here. It invites the government to develop scenarios to prevent buildings from being advanced. I read the motion in such a way that Mr Van Haga is asking for an escalation ladder and we are doing everything we can to prevent us from getting into that scenario. We cannot rule that out, of course, but we do want to have done everything we can to show the Chamber why, when you finally get there. In fact, I hope to never see that moment either. If I may interpret her in this way, I would like to take over the motion, which is exactly what we are doing, namely to build in a good escalation ladder.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u368	The only thing is that Mr Van Haga is not here. I cannot therefore ask his permission to take over the motion. It will therefore be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u369	With the interpretation I just gave, the motion gets judgment Chamber. So I assume that here an escalation ladder is meant to do everything in its power to prevent that scenario, knowing that you can never rule it out. Mr. Chairman. I'm getting to the motion on part No. 2864, in which Mr Van Dijk asks to increase the police deployment around Ter Apel. I understand that, because I see that footage too, and I have contacts there. I understand very well why Mr Van Dijk is asking that. It just doesn't work that way that I, as Justice Minister, decide where which agents are working. There is a police station in Ter Apel that is open on weekdays and that agency also makes emergency calls. The demand for broad deployment is primarily for the corps manager. It is also a local choice. Because of the wording I have to discourage her, because I do not fill it in in that way myself. I think it would be a good idea for us to set this up in the security council and to draw attention to it in the corps manager's office. I'm saying that, knowing that everyone is already keen on this, of course. That's why I'm dissuading the motion. Under the motion in part No. 2879 is pretty much everyone. This motion will be judged by Chamber. I can get over that a little faster. Then the motion remains in part No. 2883, in which Mr Bishop says: abandon the use of mandatory emergency rights. I do not recommend this motion, also because I believe that the discussion on this matter should really take place in the course of the proceedings of the Continuing Act. We sent the documents to the Chamber on Tuesday, including the opinion of the Council of State and its reaction. Those pieces are simply dealt with here and I hope we have a good story there towards Mr Bishop. If he does not agree, he will undoubtedly have this motion ready again. But now I have to dissuade her.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u370	Thank you. Now we're going to the Secretary of State for Justice and Security.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u371	Mr. Chairman. Two questions and twelve motions. Is there a willingness to learn from the good effects? The answer to Mrs Podt's question is yes. Koekkoek says: there is a call from Poland for extra money. For the time being, the cabinet says: let us first focus on the maximum use of the funds that are now available. Europe also indicates that it can do so. If additional funds were to be created, we would like to see these proposals first. Until then, we say: we choose to make the best use of the current budgets. Then there's the motions. The first motion for me is the motion of Van Haga in part No. 2863. I am against it, Mr President. It is not possible, and I have already said this to Mr Van Haga, and we do not want it. In the motion in part No. 2866 refers in the recital to the agreement between the United Kingdom and Rwanda. As you have also heard in the debate, we have clearly indicated that we do not want something like Rwanda. We do not want people from Ter Apel taken to Rwanda. Seeing more migration partnerships with third countries is fine, and learning from other countries as well. The motion can therefore be judged by Chamber, but with the remark that this has nothing to do with the deal with Rwanda. The motion in part No. 2867...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u372	Before you continue, Mrs. Piri.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u373	With apologies, and I know it's not my motion, but I think that's kind of weird. If the cabinet is happy! In my opinion, we really should not take an example of sending asylum seekers to Rwanda who apply for asylum here, so I find it rather strange that such a motion should be given a ruling on Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u374	If that had been the case, the motion would also have received a negative opinion. But there is something in the request other than what it says in the recitals. I am very specific about the text in the request, and I would like to make it quite clear, to Mrs Piris of this world, that my opinion is not specifically about an agreement such as that between the UK and Rwanda.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u375	And that is now part of the Acts. Mr. Brekelmans.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u376	The motion has been carefully formulated in the sense that it says: 'whereas it seems possible to conclude migration partnerships'. That is in general and does not refer to that deal with Rwanda. Not that we have to take over that one-on-one, but that it shows that it is possible in a general sense. I can imagine that the United Kingdom has talked to a lot of countries about this kind of partnership. Then I think it is good to get in touch with them in a general sense in order to learn from their experiences. That's what's in the motion and the Secretary of State will explain to her the same way.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u377	Thank you. In the end, it is up to the Chamber to judge the total motion and to see whether or not it wants to vote in favour. But it is in any case a judgment of the Chamber in respect of the Brekelmans motion in part No. 2866.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u378	Unfortunately, that does not apply to the motion in part No. 2867 by Mr Brekelmans, in which he asks us to reverse the temporary relaxations. I have already indicated to you in the debate that these are temporary relaxations, and that we remain careful on the specific point, as has just been mentioned. A negative opinion, then, Mr. Chairman. The motion in part No. 2868 of the members Goldsword and Eerdmans. We're against what's written here. It can't be. Denmark has an opt-out and the United Kingdom is no longer part of Europe, at least of Europe, but not of the European Union; we should not exaggerate. The motion in part No. 2869. You will understand that, in view of the discussion, it will also receive a negative opinion. For the motion in part No. In view of the debate, 2870 is the same, so a negative opinion. Then the motion to part No. Mr Koekkoek, Mr Kuik and a number of others. For the sake of shortness of time, judge Chamber. The same applies, as far as I am concerned, to the motion on item No. 2872 by Mrs Koekkoek. The same applies to the Kuik motion in part No. 2873 and for the Kuik motion to item No. 2874. Then we're at the motion in part no. 2875 by Mr Jansen. You will understand that we are opposed to that. On the one hand, it is not true what it says, because we do not give residence permits to Ukrainians. See the discussion with Mrs Piri. And two, we are catching up in the region, because the Netherlands is the region. So it's against that motion as it is here. Then there is the Markuszower/Wilders motion in part No. 2880. No, no, no, no, In view of the discussion, the PVV is not very surprised. Finally, the motion by Mr Van der Plas/Koekkoek on part No. 2881. He also receives a negative opinion from me, i.e. against. The debate has just been summarized in the pre-advisation by Mr Brekelmans: we just need to make sure that the sites that are there are safe and do not arrange specific locations for victims.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u379	I would like to thank the Secretary of State for Justice and Security and give the floor to the Minister for Housing and Spatial Planning.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u380	Thank you, Mr President. Am I intruding? Yeah, but I hear it's okay. Mr. Chairman. The motion in part No. 2859 asks the government to use the state real estate. We have just had the debate on this. That's exactly what we're doing. I therefore see this motion as a support for policy and leave it to the Chamber to decide. The motion in part No. 2861 calls on the government, in cooperation with the VNG, to prevent companies' leases from being cancelled by municipalities because of the reception of Ukrainian refugees. Of course, Mr Van Haga knows that you cannot change contracts by motion or change contract law by motion. So I can only advise against this motion, because of course there can be a contract that there is a monthly notice period. Then it is indeed allowed to cancel a contract. So this motion cannot and I advise against it. The motion in part No. 2862 is a bit cunningly formulated because it gives rise to the suggestion that the right to hire is being violated. That's not true. Rental protection applies, of course. However, I leave the judgment to the Chamber, because of course it is not the case that rental contracts are simply cancelled. In order not to give rise to this suggestion, I leave it to the Chamber to decide. Then the motion to part No. 2876 by Mr Jansen. This motion calls on the government to identify how many people are involved in this process than in the reception of Ukrainian refugees who have been evicted from their homes. Well, none natural, except for the case we discussed about anti-cracking. Anyway, that doesn't have to do with getting people out of the house. So the answer is none. In doing so, I can only discourage this motion, because it gives rise to a suggestion that is simply far from the truth. Then the motion to part No. 2877. It invites the government to remove the housing obligation of asylum seekers for municipalities and also to end all municipal priority schemes for status holders. That would be very unwise. Status holders are not the cause of the housing shortage. Other factors play a role. If status holders were no longer to be housed, the reception at the COA would be hopelessly full and many new reception sites would be needed. Also, people should stay endlessly at that COA location, even after they have just become Dutcher. So it would be very unwise to do this. So I advise against this motion. Then the motion to part No. 2878. This motion calls on the government to take stock of the legal obstacles encountered by municipalities. This is very much in line with the debate we have had on stimulating and accelerating flex construction. I shall therefore leave the judgment to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u381	Thank you. Then we go to the Minister for Poverty Policy, Participation and Pensions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u382	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I had a question first from Mrs Piri. She asked: has additional capacity been attracted or made available to the Labour Inspectorate specifically for Ukrainians? There is now no additional capacity for the Ukrainians. It is true that all reports received by the Labour Inspectorate are recorded. It also provides it with a label that indicates that it is a notification about Ukrainians, so that she can monitor it properly. She now also pays special attention to the Ukrainians. So, as I said, here too, there is the question of more risk-oriented supervision. So one has a sharp target and labels it separately, so that they can monitor it. But no additional capacity has been attracted now. Then the motion to part No. 2865. It was still on my property. That motion is asking for everyone to raise the money to the level of living money. I have already said that a comparison between the systems is not possible. That's why I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u383	Thank you. Then we'll go to the Minister for Primary and Advanced Education. I think there's one more motion, the motion in part No. 2882.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u384	Yes, there is one more motion, namely the motion in part No. 2882 by Mrs Van der Plas on the call for funding for studies and tuition. It is good to say that the cabinet has already provided financial support to Ukrainian students in the Netherlands as emergency aid. For higher education, this amounts to 2.3 million and for MBO 0.2 million for the period from March to May. That's $1,000 per student per month for three months. But I also understand that period is coming to an end. I was just referring to that, too. So we are looking at decision-making on the level of provision. We hope to do so soon, but I cannot anticipate this specifically for education. My request would therefore be to hold the motion until that decision has been taken. If that is not desirable, I will discourage the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u385	I'm gonna take a look at Mrs. Van der Plas. Is she willing to hold the motion? Or does she still want to think about it? The latter is the case. If Mrs Van der Plas does not hold the motion, her motion will become item No. 2882.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u386	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u387	Thank you. This brings us to the end of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-8.u388	I would like to thank the five rulers for being here with us today. I thank the spokesmen. I think we've had a nice debate. I thank the people in the public gallery and those who have followed the debate in a different way. We are going to vote on the motions that have been tabled on Tuesday after May. I shall suspend the sitting until 7 p.m. Then we start the two-minute debate Main lines of defence policy.
