ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-tweedekamer-23.u1	We will continue with the two-minute debate on the formal Employment and Social Policy Council. I would like to welcome the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment and also the colleagues in the Chamber. We have four consecutive two-minute debates with the same ruler. Mr Van Kent has asked my permission, or indeed your permission, to make a contribution even though he did not participate in the written consultation. Is there any objection to that? You're a coulant. I have asked Mr Van Kent to be brief and concise throughout the evening. He will. Mrs Kathmann has the floor first.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-tweedekamer-23.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The rapporteur, Mr Agnes Jongerius, has reached a milestone for an EU minimum wage, an agreement with the European Commission and the European Council. This is being discussed at the Formal Social Affairs Council and we would like to make two further motions for resolutions. The first motion is as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Netherlands does not meet the required 80% collective agreement coverage;]] [[Whereas trade unions and collective agreements play an important role in improving the working conditions of workers;]] [[calls on the Government to include in the announced Action Plan an increase in the level of coverage of collective agreements:]] [[allow only companies with collective agreements in public procurement;]] [[protection of workers who wish to improve their working conditions collectively and of trade unionists engaged in collective bargaining;]] [[combating yellow trade unions,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kathmann and Mr Maatoug.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-31-673]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-tweedekamer-23.u3	Then there's the second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, if you work, you must earn a decent and adequate minimum wage;]] [[noting that Article 5 (4) of the Directive sets out clear international reference values with regard to the adequacy of minimum wage;]] [[calls on the Government to use the international indicative reference values in determining the adequacy of the minimum wage,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kathmann and Mr Maatoug.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-31-674]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-tweedekamer-23.u4	Mr President, thank you. As a committee, we had indeed chosen to prepare in writing for the Formal Council of the WSB and not to do so in committee. Thank you, too, for answering our questions. I would like to come back to one point. That is actually the point of the border workers. We have asked the Minister a number of times, and she also stated here that she is actually working on a kind of two-track policy: a short-term interim solution and a long-term structural solution for frontier workers, who are now being hampered, for example, from being able to work at home because when the corona measures expire, they are suddenly insured in their home country. The Minister states: I am working on it and I hope that there will be a qualified majority for the interim solution. At the time of writing, that was still unclear. I would like to ask whether there is now more clarity, also because the temporary measures are due to expire on 1 July and it is now 14 June. I get many messages from people who want clarity, including from Limburg, where many people work cross-border. Perhaps the Minister will be able to provide them in advance, and otherwise indicate when that will be clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-tweedekamer-23.u5	Thank you. I call Mrs Maatoug. She will speak on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-tweedekamer-23.u6	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you also from GroenLinks for answering the written questions. We are very pleased with the proposal. It is nice if you work well together: then a colleague submits the motions and there is still room to ask a supplementary question. The answer indicates what the gross wage would be at 60% in annual income. My question would be what then is the hourly wage that goes with it. Can that question be answered now? Finally, I always say, I believe that the minimum wage should be raised.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-tweedekamer-23.u7	Thank you. I call Mr De Jong. He will speak on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-tweedekamer-23.u8	Mr President, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-tweedekamer-23.u9	Can I take the rest of the speaking time for the rest of the evening or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-tweedekamer-23.u10	You have quite a lot of speaking time in the legislative proposal, so we add it to that. Mr Van Kent on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-tweedekamer-23.u11	Mr. Chairman. The prices are rising, the energy is priceless, the groceries are hugely expensive, not to mention the price at the pump. So it is important that the minimum wage goes up. We have heard that there is an agreement but we do not yet know the full text and we have not officially received it. It was also discussed today in the First Chamber and they had even less information than we have today. So that's a bit of a special situation. It is also uncertain when something will happen and how binding things are, but fortunately we do not need Brussels to raise the minimum wage. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that wages and minimum wages have been lagging behind the rise in profits for decades;]] [[calls on the government to raise the minimum wage in the Netherlands to €15 per hour while maintaining the link with all benefits,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr. Van Kent.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-31-676]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-tweedekamer-23.u12	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-tweedekamer-23.u13	Thank you. Four motions, two questions. A few minutes for the Minister, is that enough?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-tweedekamer-23.u14	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-tweedekamer-23.u15	Then I'll suspend for a few minutes and then we'll continue with the Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-tweedekamer-23.u16	I give the floor to the Minister to answer the two questions put to her and to give an opinion on the four motions for resolutions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-tweedekamer-23.u17	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, the motion in part No. 673 by Mrs Kathmann on the level of collective bargaining coverage. We are, of course, going to work with the social partners to draw up an action plan to increase this level of collective bargaining coverage. That action plan goes to you at some point, of course, and you ask us to involve three things. I'd like to take it with me. We're gonna take a look at that, too. We do not yet know exactly what the outcome will be, but we certainly involve these matters. We'll come back to you on that. So I'd like to give this motion a ruling Chamber. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Kathmann then had a second motion, the motion in part No. 674, on Article 5.4. The motion calls for the international indicative reference values to be used in determining the adequacy of the minimum wage. The two reference values, which I assume Mrs Kathmann refers to, refer only to gross wages. That's what minimum wagers pay taxes on it. In the Netherlands you also have a lot of supplements. So that gives us a different income. These indicators therefore do not give a good picture of the spending potential of people with a minimum wage and therefore do not tell the full story of the adequacy of the minimum wage. We do not yet have the extensive texts, but if we have them, I would like to consider what would be a suitable indicator in the Dutch context. I will come back to that too, because we are of course going a long way together on this. Then, of course, I would also like to look at indicators related to what people actually have to spend. For example, this could be a net wage. By the way, the Netherlands comes out quite differently. It can also be the disposable income. There are a number of ideas on reference values, including those on the Eml, but we need to study what that would mean for the Dutch situation and how that translates. That is why your motion is too restrictive at the moment. I must therefore discourage it, because we cannot yet say exactly what we are going to lay down in legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-tweedekamer-23.u18	The motion in part No. 674 has been dissuaded. Then the motion to part No. 675.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-tweedekamer-23.u19	First I have a question from Mrs. Palland, Mr. Chairman. She asked about the border workers. She's asked for that before. I have promised, among other things, to Mrs Palland, but also to a number of Commissioners of the King, employers' organizations, and I would take an active part in that. I did so, as I did last week at the OECD meeting in Paris. At that time, I spoke to several neighbouring colleagues about this. I also spoke about it in Paris, Nicolas Schmit. There was an official meeting this afternoon. I have just understood that an official agreement has been reached on an interim solution to the situation surrounding border workers. This is about frontier workers who, for example, live in the Netherlands and work in Belgium or the other way around, who can work at home for three, four or five days instead of one. The good news is that these border workers will at least be able to work at home for the next six months without experiencing a shift in social security. The current directive is being extended for six months. This applies both to new and old cases of frontier workers working at home. Right now, that's fresh from the press. The technical details will be further developed. As soon as we have it, of course, I'll let you know. But this is what was achieved this afternoon as an interim administrative solution. So that's good news. This means that we now have six months to look together for a structural solution. Then Mrs Maatoug asked for a translation of the gross wage of 60% in annual income: what does that mean for the hourly wage? I suspect Mrs Maatoug did the math herself. That's $14. Then I have Mr Léon de Jong's motion. You ask the government to actively oppose EU interference. You already know what my answer is, but I also think it is important to say here that EU directives of this kind contribute to upward social convergence. That makes what you do here also have an effect in other European countries, which also makes it better there. A European minimum wage, or the method of determining it, which also applies to other Member States, provides a level playing field and provides prosperity for the people there. So I have to discourage this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-tweedekamer-23.u20	Mr. De Jong has a question about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-tweedekamer-23.u21	I believe that this minister is a Dutch minister. Of course, we are looking around at what is happening in other countries and we can all have an opinion on that, but the policy should be to have a Dutch policy. My point is that we often go after European proposals, when we can make them ourselves. Take, for example, the statutory minimum wage. We do not need the European Union or the European Commission to increase this independently. We often read in the documents that there are proposals from Europe, the European Commission, the European Parliament or so on to make changes to them. Does the Minister agree with me that we should take the lead in this and that we should deal with Dutch proposals in the Dutch Parliament, for example a Dutch proposal to increase the minimum wage?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-tweedekamer-23.u22	There are topics on which you can make proposals in the Dutch Parliament. There are issues and proposals that come from Europe, from the European Commission or the European Parliament. And there are issues that both Europe, the European Commission and the national parliament have something to say about. So it's up to who takes the initiative. The Chamber may also take an initiative. The cabinet can take an initiative. But I don't recommend this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-tweedekamer-23.u23	Finally, briefly, Mr De Jong.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-tweedekamer-23.u24	Yeah, a quick question. Does the Minister agree with the PVV that the lead to make proposals should lie primarily with the Dutch Parliament or with the Dutch Cabinet, which, of course, is one of them when it comes to such proposals? So that we do not have to wait for things from Europe, but that we can do it ourselves?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-tweedekamer-23.u25	There are a lot of issues where we do not have to wait for Europe and where we can take the initiative as a cabinet or as a chamber. I think we'll have an initiative bill coming out of this Chamber in an hour.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-tweedekamer-23.u26	The motion in part No. 676.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-tweedekamer-23.u27	Mr Van Kent did not ask a question, but made a comment about the process. I would just like to say what the process we are going to do in the coming months is to implement the European minimum wage. As far as I know, the letters sent to you have also been sent to the First Chamber. You made a comment on that. The process for implementing the Directive is as follows: It's good to mention that here. In the coming weeks, the lawyers-linguists will translate the provisional compromise into all the official languages of the EU. In the second half of 2022, i.e. after the summer, a formal vote is expected in the European Parliament. A formal vote in the Council is also expected in the second half of 2022. If the agreement is adopted, 20 days after the formal vote in the Council, the agreement will be presented in the EU Official Journal. Then Member States will have two years to implement the Directive in national legislation. Then we're talking about the second half of 2024. You didn't ask so explicitly, but I thought it would be a good idea to outline that process. While I'm reading this, I realize that you and I probably need to talk about this a little earlier than 2024. Finally, Mr Van Kent's motion calling for the minimum wage to be raised to €15 per hour. I'm gonna have to dissuade him.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-tweedekamer-23.u28	Thank you. Mr Smalls has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-tweedekamer-23.u29	Yeah, excuse me, I had another question about the first motion. I was a little surprised, I have to say. The first motion calls for only companies with collective agreements to be allowed in public procurement. In my opinion, 27% of Dutch people work at a company where there is no collective agreement. Are these people, by definition, completely excluded from government contracts? Or is it just an incentive and you're taking it with you? Do I have to read it very freely?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-tweedekamer-23.u30	On how free or unfree you should read those words, we will come back when we come up with the action plan. I suspect that this indent ends in an incentive rather than a real ban, because that would be very unfree. But we would like sectors to conclude collective agreements. I think that's a shared goal. What I said to Mrs Kathmann in my explanation also applies to this. If we draw up the action plan with the social partners, we will look carefully at the considerations we take with us in what way, because there may be more. But these three will certainly be well studied and taken away, as far as possible. Then the question is: in what way is the incentive, or is it more compelling? That's all gonna come back.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-tweedekamer-23.u31	It's another colleague's motion, isn't it? It was answered, too, Mr. Smalls. Well, let's go, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-tweedekamer-23.u32	Yeah, excuse me, Mr. Chairman, but it's about something. It concerns 27% of the Dutch who are not in a collective agreement and who I do not want excluded from doing any work for the government at all. If I hear it right, it's an incentive and it's probably part of a plan that's coming. If that's the case, I get it better.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-tweedekamer-23.u33	Yes. I will take the concerns you express here into consideration. But I think it is an important consideration, like the other two considerations and probably a number of other things, to find out how we want to deal with them. If you do agree that you want to go to 80% coverage, how are you going to do that? And what are the ways in which you can encourage companies to do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-tweedekamer-23.u34	Thank you. I would like to thank the Minister for his reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-tweedekamer-23.u35	The votes on the four motions tabled are scheduled for next Tuesday.
