ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-3.u1	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the proposal for a law of Mr Bromet and Mr Tjeerd de Groot amending the Waterschapswet, the Kieswet and the General Law on administrative law in relation to the complete democratization of the water authorities (35608). I would like to welcome the initiators. I think they're looking forward to it. We're also going to deal with the whole bill today. We're gonna finish today. I would also like to welcome the Minister for Infrastructure and the Water State, the advisor to the Chamber, in section K. This also applies to the support: Bauke ter Borg, policy officer at the D66 Group, Levi Bakker, legal adviser at the D66 Group and, of course, Jaap van der Heijden, policy officer at the GroenLinks Group, who has already done a lot of own-initiative legislation. The first deadline on the part of the Chamber took place on 21 April and today is the answer in the first term and the second period as a whole.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-3.u2	I shall then be the first to give the floor to Mrs Bromet to answer some of the questions that were put last time. I call Mrs Bromet.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-3.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank the Members of Parliament for the interesting first term that we have followed with great pleasure from Box K. It was a very nice debate. It's about something that may seem very boring to a lot of people, but which is very important. I also found it very nice to see that the discussions are not actually going through the standard coalition opposition strategy, but that the groups are just really free to take a stand. I would also like to congratulate Mr Minhas on his maiden speech on behalf of everyone here in trade-K. It was a nice personal story; thank you very much. Mr. Chairman. This is a very important day for us, which actually started more than two years ago with a moment when Jaap van der Heijden was just mentioned by the chairman and sitting there on the right behind me said to me: will we not even make a bill to abolish the secured seats? He himself sits on a waterboard. I thought abolishing those secure seats was a really good idea right away. It was also very nice to do this together with D66, because the two of us are actually represented in the Water Party of course, but also have a history when it comes to water topics. Together, we wrote an initiative paper on peat: "You can't save a lot of people by yourself." We have also written an initiative paper on climate adaptation. It was called "Dry feet." I also want to go off the staff behind me for a while. Bauke ter Borg, Levi Bakker, Manon Julicher and of course Jaap van der Heijden. There's Maaike van Beek on the left behind me. She's from the Ministry of IenW. I would also like to thank the Minister for the availability of an official from the Ministry to help us in making this initiative law, because it is a lot of work. All the credits for the employees behind me, because they did the actual work. Without them, we couldn't have done it. By the way, I'm forgetting one co-weaker, an intern at GroenLinks. I almost forgot, but I had apprehended him: I'm going to call you! He wrote the explanatory memorandum. That's a lot of fun. He now works at the Ministry of LNV. It's about Hugo Unms. He's just written a good text, which we're still using now. In this debate we are going to answer the questions that have been asked to us in the first period. Mr Tjeerd de Groot and I have divided into four blocks. Mr De Groot is about to start with the first block on the why of this law. After that, I will take on two blocks, on the consequences of this bill for those involved in the waterboard and on why this plan of the law has been chosen. Finally, Mr De Groot will close with a block of other questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-3.u4	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mr De Groot after this introduction.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-3.u5	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll start with the block: why this law? First of all, it is up to the proposers to further democratize the waterboards. In this, the authors follow the historical development that already granted the right to vote 100 years ago... Until before, this was always up to the landowners, the owners of agricultural land. But as of 100 years ago, this democratization started. Since then, the social importance of water management has increased. For example, the 1992 Waterschapswet states that all residents of the Netherlands need, have control of, and have to pay for, waterboard taxes. This led to the first waterboard elections in 1995. Following the Water Authority Modernisation Act in 2007, the list system was first implemented. The seats for the secured became more and more an anomaly in a board whose decisions affected more and more people. A hybrid model was formed, which is historically explainable, but which is increasingly difficult to defend from a democratic point of view. After all, those who become decisions must also have control over those decisions. It is the proposers who are trying to make the waterboards more democratic in this respect. In the argument of the opponents, in particular, of the proposers' proposal, a number of arguments came back, which I will systematically end up with. One: the waterboards have been doing well for 800 years. Two: the target has not been changed. Three: the mission is only functional. Four: Secured seats ensure proper handling of minorities. Five: the farmer's interest is snowing. Six: the pride-interest-payment-control. Seven: from abroad we are celebrated for our watership system. I see Mr Minhas looking proud. I'm going over the arguments. The first argument is that it has been going well for 800 years. The proposers want to focus on the future. Many of the objections were motivated by the past. For example, several parties, CDA, VVD and JA21, indicated that it has been going well for 800 years, warning the CDA that we should not throw the child away with the bath water. But that ignores the fact that the democratisation of the waterboards has actually started a hundred years ago. It is precisely in order to prepare the waterboards for the future that it is necessary to adapt them to today's challenges. You have to fix the roof when it's dry. Then there is the second argument: the task of the waterboards has not been changed. The task of the water boards, as set out in Article 1 of the Water Authority Act, has indeed not been changed, in a narrow sense. The Christian Union was right to note that. The Environment Act does have an impact on the functioning of the waterboards, but Mrs Bromet will discuss this further. When it comes to the why of the proposal, it is up to the proposers to ensure that, even in this Chamber, there is a broad recognition of the context in which waterboards do their work: it has gained urgency, social weight and importance. The SGP asked why this should then provide the basis for further democratisation. A two-pronged answer to that. Firstly, the increased importance calls for a democratic process to define these interests. Secondly, the increased importance also calls for greater democratic control. For we can only conclude that the decisions of the waterboards are becoming increasingly frequent and direct. I only have to remind you that we are now in the third extremely dry period in four years. But also think of the people who see their foundations affected by low groundwater levels or soil decline. It's been calculated that it's about a million houses. The damage can reach EUR 50 billion by 2050. Indeed, it is not the waterboards that determine how strict the requirements are with regard, for example, to manure, pesticides or climate. That is also to reassure Mr Madlener of the PVV. This law therefore does not change the mandate of the water boards. What we are strengthening is the way in which decisions are made, because they affect all of us. Then there is the third argument: waterboards as functional governance.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-3.u6	Before you proceed, there is a question from Mr Grinwis of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-3.u7	Thank you for the clear statement, but it is not an answer to my question. In fact, Mr De Groot welcomes my analysis that the main tasks have not changed. The urgency is increased, however, by climate change. That was exactly my argumenter, but the question that related to it was: how does it lead, namely that the main task does not change, to a plea for the abolition of the secure seats? That is not clear to me from this answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-3.u8	Part of the answer is in Mrs Bromet's speech, namely that the Environment Act does indeed have an impact on the functioning of the waterboards. The part of the answer I have given here is about the increased importance of the decisions of the waterboards, because they affect us all. I call a million homeowners. Soil decline and the consequences of climate change also transcend individual waterboards. So you can no longer say that this balance of interests takes place within one waterboard. That's not enough. Nor will you deny that we now have the third dry period in four years. It's up to all of us. That is why it is so important that the decisions that water boards take affect us all. The task has not been taken wider in a strict sense, but those decisions affect all of us. This simply requires a democratic balance.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-3.u9	I'm just hearing a repeat of moves. Then let me keep it to myself. I do not think it is a convincing line of argument: the tasks have not changed, but the consequences, for example spatially, are greater and thus... I do not think that is a clear line of argument. But okay, that's an agreement to disagree.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-3.u10	That is possible, but there is even more to the argument than just the mandate. Mr Grinwis has also listed a number of other arguments. Together they make the argument to maintain the secured seats extremely thin.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-3.u11	Mr Minhas, VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-3.u12	Thank you, first of all, for Mrs Bromet's fine words, also on behalf of Mr De Groot. I would just like to respond to the democratic legitimacy that you argue. You say that the watership tasks affect all of us. Do you agree with me that these tasks affect farmers, farms and nature conservation managers much more than someone who lives twelve-story or six-story in the city, and that is precisely why those interests were secured in the secure seats?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-3.u13	In the past, that may have been the case. Indeed, when it comes to the management of one polder, you can indeed maintain this. But in the developments that we all see and which concern us all, it concerns all of us. This also fits in with a broader consideration, which actually transcends strict nature interests or peasant interests. I'm here to talk about that. These interests can also be sufficiently highlighted in the non-protected part.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-3.u14	Do the proposers then consider that having those secured seats is the reason why, out of a total of sometimes up to 30 seats, there are only 7 to 9 secured seats.... that these interests cannot be sufficiently guaranteed in the current situation, for example in the urban area?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-3.u15	In fact, not only the Boelhouwer committee but also the OECD notes that precisely the interests which Mr Minhas claims to represent are overrepresented. This means that the current functioning of the waterboards has moved too far in this direction. I'm here to talk about that too.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-3.u16	Mr Stoffer, SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-3.u17	If I follow Mr De Groot's speech correctly, he actually says: the task we now have of drought cannot be dealt with alone by an individual waterboard, which concerns all of us. That is true, of course, but does he disagree with me that we have fought against too much water in all those years before? The Netherlands was even somewhat created by this, the fight against water. That went well, didn't it? The whole world is surprised to see how we have done this all these centuries, with even smaller waterboards than we are today. So why the argument that waterboards of this size could not cope with this problem of drought? I would like a clear answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-3.u18	This has to do with the fact that the importance of the waterboards has increased. That will appeal to you, also as a former representative in the waterboards on behalf of the SGP. You also acknowledge that this importance has increased. At the same time, we see that those waterboards, which have worked so well on the dry feet, for which there is all respect, are not sufficiently prepared, especially in democratic terms, for the future challenge. In addition, you should make a more general assessment, because the problem has really increased. We will have to bring back the swamp that was the Netherlands to some extent. The waterboards can do this according to the opinion of the proposers, but then we must ensure that the decisions that are taken and which affect us all are made in a democratic way.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-3.u19	Is Mr De Groot's conclusion that in all these years before the decisions taken and made by the country to where we are today have not been taken democratically?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-3.u20	You do not hear the authors say that it has so far been undemocratic. We did not say that, but we want to strengthen that democracy further. In all honesty, the fact that it has gone well in the past cannot possibly be an argument to continue it? Maybe in the eyes of the SGP, but it's precisely that you adapt as an organization, to prepare yourself for future issues.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-3.u21	Mr Van der Molen, CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-3.u22	On the conclusion that the fact that it has gone well in the past is not a reason to keep going like this, I would like to start chewing for a while. Mr De Groot said that the importance had increased. The challenges are different. I think we can see with each other that there have been more challenges. But the point made by Mr De Groot is also: the importance is now wider in society. Now the newspaper headlined this week: the drought is now about the same as that of 1976. That was in the prehistory, where there were still secure seats in the waterboards. Is your statement that, if you were living in Amsterdam then, you could have done so in 1976 and the drought at that time was as big as it was today, there was no interest at that time or less important than now? Did I get that right? 'Cause that's the thesis. It is not just that the challenges are different. We all have such a great interest in you, that there was no such thing in the past, that we now have to do without the secure seats. I would like a more detailed explanation from Mr De Groot.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-3.u23	The difference is, of course, that it was then, in the eyes of everyone, but also of the scientists, one extremely dry summer. Now, the KNMI has also officially recognised that everything we are dealing with today is related to and related to climate change. The same goes for the extreme moods. That is indeed a new situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-3.u24	Yes, but then Mr De Groot's speech is: because we now have a very dry summer, we do not need the secure seats. That's really weird. At the time you submitted this proposal, we really had not had the second drought, similar to 1976. So that's not the point. The point made by Mr De Groot in defence of his proposal is that the importance has increased. The importance of all of us in the work of the waterboards is now, anno 2022, so much greater than in 1976 that we no longer have to do what worked then. I would ask Mr De Groot to explain where the importance has arisen that certain parties, which have always had an interest, should no longer be represented in the decision-making process.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-3.u25	D66 and GroenLinks have already stated in detail in the Dry Feet note and in the explanatory memorandum that the importance has increased not only because of climate change, but also when it comes to peat meadows. This is a problem that was urgent a few years ago. It is also about the salinisation of agricultural land through the falling soil and the constant washing with fresh water. This whole problem of fresh water, water availability and our farming methods has become more urgent in recent years. I am pleased that the CDA also wants to reflect on the fact that the historian's argument deserves further consideration. I also welcome the recognition that the challenges are certainly greater now than in the past, with the extreme drought we are experiencing today.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-3.u26	Thank you. You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-3.u27	The third argument: waterboards as functional governance. The essence of the argument is that water boards would not be political. Traditionally, water boards have been included in the functional administration, with two characteristics: a limited mandate and a closed housekeeping. As far as the initiators are concerned, the parties using this argument confuse the mandate and the form of administration of the water boards. The task of the water boards is indeed functional in nature. There is a task package as laid down by law, but that task package affects everyone, and that is only increasing, as previously argued. This means that a political process is needed to define what is of general interest. A general, representative democracy, including the "one man, one vote" principle, is appropriate, as is the case for other administrative bodies focusing on the general interest. That is exactly where this proposal is at. Of course, there are differences between municipalities, provinces and water boards. The Christian Union asked for that too. Waterboards, for example, have no right of initiative. It is also a monist system and a crowning title, as Mr Sneller said. The choices made in the waterboard are therefore political. Then they work like provinces and municipalities in the public domain and make decisions that affect our physical environment. Mr. Chairman. By pointing out the great interests involved in water management, the opponents of the abolition of the secure seat are insane enough to recognise that the tasks of the waterboards are indeed political in nature. Where interests play, you see politics. The differences between water boards and other administrative bodies on which there is full democratic control, such as municipalities and provinces, are therefore exaggerated as far as the initiators are concerned. Mr. Chairman. The closed housekeeping has also been affected since this Chamber accepted the Geurts motion, which had been co-tabled by the VVD and the SGP. This motion called for the Water Act to be amended to allow the subsidy of measures to combat water pollution and the related research from the Delta Fund, a public fund managed by the Empire. This is now about EUR 180 million to EUR 190 million per year. This is granted to the waterboards from the general funds, similar to the Municipal Fund and the Province Fund. The comparison with other organs is exaggerated. The same applies to the mention of the Economic and Social Committee, because it would represent interests, wouldn't it? Oh, yeah. However, it completely ignores the fact that the ESC is an advisory body. The cabinet does not have to take those opinions and the ESC has no tax authority.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-3.u28	First, Mr Minhas of the VVD and then Mr Grinwis.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-3.u29	We have heard the argument about the Delta Fund before. I would like to go into that in more detail. The responsibility for controlling the Delta Fund lies here with the Chamber. We can control that from the Chamber. The fact that a subsidy is granted to the waterboards does not necessarily mean that democratic control from these waterboards must also be exercised on the issues to which these funds are spent. That is what we are doing here from the Chamber, because that money is provided from the Delta Fund.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-3.u30	With the same reasoning, you can also abolish municipal democracy. The proposers have argued with this argument that with this you are the element in the closed household, where functional governance was put forward... A limited task and closed household are important. There is no question of a closed housekeeping anymore. According to the applicants, that was the reason to say: then there is actually no question of functional governance anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-3.u31	I agree with what my colleague Minhas said. But it's half the story again. The other half of the story is that waterboards contribute more to the overall resources than they receive in grants. Think of their contribution to the High Water Protection Programme. The waterboards contribute about 200 million a year, in addition to a project-related contribution of 10%. It is divided as follows, I say to the eye: 50% of the high-water protection measures are paid by the Empire and 50% by the water boards, divided into 40% deposit in the Delta Fund and 10% project-related own contribution. That part of the story needs to be told, too. In total, the waterboards make a greater contribution to the overall resources than they get out of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-3.u32	So here too you see an intertwinedness of the water boards with other levels of government. That's exactly the point. The waterboards aren't on their own anymore. Mrs Bromet will also argue that this is further strengthened by the Environment Act. I went through the arguments on behalf of the proposers. One of the arguments is: it is a functional board. On your arguments, too, there is a need to change. Because that's not what it is anymore. It's not on its own. There is no longer a closed house. It even goes both ways.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-3.u33	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-3.u34	The following argument is the democratic handling of minorities. Several authors wondered what our view of democracy is. The proposers use the principle that those who take decisions must have control of them. I told you in my introduction. However, the debate also often referred to the treatment of minorities or minority interests. The Water Authority Modernisation Act in 2007 also feared that specific interests would snow under. This is now being brought in by a number of colleagues. The Boelhouwer Committee notes, however, that this has not been the case. The fear was actually for nothing. This committee is also critical of the fact that the guards together form a group. That seems to be contrary even to any democratic principle. I see several colleagues nodding. The Venice Commission of the Council of Europe was also cited when it came to dealing with minorities or minority interests. That reference really does read the initiators differently. The waterboards are not about the interests of minorities, but simply about the interests of companies. It is not for nothing that the OECD used to speak of an interest group democracy when it comes to waterboards. There are economic interests rather than minority groups. For let us not forget that these economic interests are there. The waterboards go within a certain bandwidth over their own load and their distribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-3.u35	Just now functional democracy was reduced to the closed house. I would say that is a very one-sided approach. But Mr De Groot is following another very one-sided approach: if the Council of State were to rely on European statements that you should give minority interests a place in the consideration, that would not be good if they were companies. That is an extreme narrowing of what is an interest. If that's an interest of a company, it doesn't matter. I would ask Mr De Groot to comment on that. The example I mentioned my input was: let's take the theoretical case of a waterboard with a city of 100 people and one farmer. The decision-making process affects that farmer in the first place. It will then face 100 voters, who will act on their own behalf. Will Mr De Groot comment on the appropriate importance of that one farmer? That farmer is directly affected in his household. He owns the land that concerns this. Then why should the farmer not sit at the table or be allowed to take part in the decision just because he also has a business as a natural person?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-3.u36	First of all, let me say something about functional democracy. That was mentioned in a sub-section for a moment. Two elements: limited job concept and a closed household. Then we'll deal with minorities. Reference is made to the Venice Commission. That is what a number of speakers are doing here, and so is the Council of State. So we went in there for a while. What does that mean? What is it about with the Venice Commission? That committee defines a relevant minority as a concentrated minority living in an area where there is scarce administrative representation. This may be relevant, for example, in constituencies in the United States where certain areas are less inhabited. Such areas therefore receive less voting rights because they are sparsely inhabited. It is therefore a question of minorities who would not otherwise have been represented. "To guaranteee equality." That is actually what the Venice Commission says. Those interests of that farmer are sufficiently expressed through the electoral system. I do not mean the interests per farmer, but the interests of farmers. So it doesn't fit in with the Venice Commission. And these interests can also simply be sufficiently highlighted through the non-protected system.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-3.u37	Mr De Groot does not go into the specific point I made. This is indeed about a smaller number group. In a rural area, however, the number of inhabitants of villages and the city in the vicinity combined are many times greater than the number of farmers, while those farmers manage the vast majority of the area. So that would be in line with the point made by Mr De Groot. You say, "Don't listen to that, because they have a company." That's the point you're making. But that goes farther. The waterboard also needs this group when it comes to carrying out the tasks of the waterboard. And these farmers are disproportionately and to a much greater extent influenced by the choices made by the waterscape, than people living three-highly behind in a city like Amsterdam; the example that Mr De Groot himself mentioned. I would like to invite Mr De Groot to comment on that. He's now referring to the numbers. I said that the number of farmers is much lower than the number of other inhabitants. However, I would like to hear Mr De Groot comment on the fact that farmers have much greater interests in the decisions of the waterboard and that they are affected to a much greater extent than the average inhabitants of the waterboard. Moreover, the farmers also play a role in carrying out the tasks of that waterboard.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-3.u38	I'll give you part of the answer. Mrs Bromet will go into detail on how the interests of individual farmers are affected. For this part, I would like to point out that the system of lists is perfectly suited to expressing this farmers' interest. You can also see this here in this Chamber: through SGP, BoerBurgerBeweging, CDA and VVD that farmer's interest is brought forward here every week. The emphasis may be on the short term again, but the other side of the room also brings out the farmers' interest, and it might put a little more emphasis on long-term interests. That consideration is therefore also carried out in this Chamber and in municipalities and provinces where relevant. This will also sufficiently safeguard the interests of your individual farmer. The list system is very powerful. Have you any confidence in that, I'd say?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-3.u39	Thank you. Then we go to Mr. Goldsword of JA21. I would ask Mr De Groot to speak through the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-3.u40	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-3.u41	I would like to go back to what has just been argued, namely that, as several people have pointed out here, we have had a beautiful working system with the secure seats and the water boards. Over the past decades, the waterboards have had a huge challenge when it comes to fighting the water. I think that's what we're famous for. I think you indicated the same thing. We're proud of that. Now there's a new challenge. This is something that has proven itself. Why would you actually put that in the dirt?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-3.u42	I would like to point out that this proposal is about democratization. For the past ten years, too, it would have been possible to do so without the secure seats as far as the proposers are concerned. I would rather say that despite the seats that have been secured, things have gone rather well.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-3.u43	That is what we differ on. I believe, with several parties, that this knowledge, this know-how, has been very important and that the world, partly because of these secure seats, sees our model as a success. So we disagree on that. But what indication do you, as initiators, actually have that, although they have managed to cope with all the challenges over the past few decades, they are not able to do so now in a somewhat drier period?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-3.u44	I come back to the specific comments made by the OECD on how they look at the waterboard system. For the rest, I really refer to the discussion we have had. The importance is going to affect us all, and then it is simply democratic, and given your election programme, you should also like it, that we say: then we do not rely on vested interests, we do not want to give them a permanent place. I paraphrase your election programme, but because those interests affect us all, we must also be able to take part in the decision. I'm almost quoting from your election program.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-3.u45	Thank you. You will continue your speech. We're doing interruptions in two. I call Mr De Groot.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-3.u46	So I came to the companies. It is not for nothing that the OECD speaks of an interest groups democracy when it comes to waterboards. There are economic interests rather than minority groups. Let us not forget that these economic interests exist. The water boards go within a certain bandwidth over their own loads and their distribution. That's where I left off. We agree with the Advisory Section that minorities should not be overlooked in a democracy. Democracy is the right of the majority, and minority interests must also have a place. But with that, a right to a secure seat is not enforceable. That is only the case if certain groups are disadvantaged, as I said, and if their sound could not be heard in any other way. That is how the authors read the recommendations of the Venice Commission. In this context, the Christian Union Group asked when minority interests may have a secure seat. You see, Mr President, the Christian Union continues to try. The answer is simple: a secure seat can only be defended if certain minority groups do not have an equal chance of participation compared to other groups. That's it. This is not relevant to the waterboard system at all, as the specific interest groups in the waterboards have ample scope for doing so. Also, I say from a historical perspective, the secured system was not born from the idea of protecting minorities. On the contrary, it was based on who owned a lot of land. The whole principle 'who pays, determines', which is still being referred to, shows that these economic interests and not the interests of minorities seem to be used as an argument. In addition, this presupposes that political parties would not be able to weigh up. But Boelhouwer notes that political parties have just strengthened the position of water boards. They are very capable of working for these specific interests, as I have outlined before. And, indeed, as the Animal Party argued, it would be very strange if individual companies or domes such as VNO, Shell or LTO had a seat in the House of Representatives. That is quite apart from the fact, as I say to Mr Madlener, that LTO is hardly representative of the peasantry anymore. Less than half of the farmers are still members. Well, then it's weird that they're not allowed to name the guards. And I'm not even talking about the Chamber of Commerce. That is actually an agency, a government organization that then appoints the company-protected seats. Imagine this: that is as if you have an asylum debate here in the Chamber, and so, on behalf of the Central Body, asylum seekers, the COA, may speak. That is a hybrid form, which the proposers do not support.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-3.u47	I'm going to go into that last point. Indeed, 55% of farmers are members of LTO which is slightly more than half of them, and that represents 65% of the turnover of Dutch agriculture and horticulture. That is not an argument against secure seats. That is an argument to look again closely at how those secure seats are appointed or elected. I think that Mr De Groot is throwing a lot of arguments on a pile and making a story against secure seats. In his reasoning, he first turned the waterboards into a kind of general democracy rather than a functional democracy. And then he makes the comparison: Shell isn't in the Lower House either. Last time I said in an interruption: if only Shell was paying as much tax as the farmers in the waterboard. But that aside. It may still come from Mrs Bromet, but I actually miss a fundamental reflection in the answer on the form of democracy in a waterboard, which is not inferior to the 'one man, one vote' principle. The water boards as a functional body form a kind of interest group democracy, as mentioned by the Water Advisory Committee. Another term we often encounter is 'guarantee democracy', in which we ensure that every interest is represented, precisely in order to carry out that functional task. Does Mr De Groot have a reflection on that? All his answers are based on the principle: it is actually a general democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-3.u48	Mrs Bromet will discuss this further in her third block. But the short answer is: there is just a list system, and any interest can find its place in it, just like here in the House of Representatives. I would like to refer again to this point: the only reason for a secure seat may be that the interest in question would not find its way to decision-making in any other way. In the firm belief of the proposers, supported by the OECD, I am still going there, and Boelhouwer, those interests can also find another way, even better, to the representatives in the waterboard. So there is really no reason to indicate the need to have a secure seat. Mr. Chairman. Then argument five: the farmer's interest is snowing under. Many of the opponents are also concerned about whether the farmers' interests will come to their senses. I think this Chamber is a good example of how interests for farmers find their way to politics in the short term, but also in the longer term. I've outlined that. In addition, farmers are also involved in regional processes in four ways. In the first draft, there is a joint area committee containing the LTO and local nature managers. Then there will be an official test with consultation of the LTO and the nature managers. The decision is then made available to the public with opportunities for participation by interest groups. Finally, there is a discussion at a committee meeting with both physical and written possibilities for participation. At the hearing it was, I believe, Mrs Tieneke Clevering who outlined very nicely how the interests of farmers are taken into account throughout the process. I have pointed out that, in addition to these careful processes, the list system must be sufficient to take farmers' interests with it. Mr. Chairman. I would also point out that the elected representatives often have a link with the agricultural sector. That's actually all the evidence. The Boelhouwer committee has indicated that 14% of those elected already have roots in the agricultural sector. On average, there's enough knowledge across all the waterboards. But specific water boards, for example at Wetterskip Fryslân, are one in four chosen ones who is already a farmer or has a relationship with the agricultural sector. I say to the PVV that this interest is really sufficiently secured. However, supporters of the secured seats seem to have little confidence in political parties. Then argument six: the pride, payment, control. As an important argument for the secure seat, the controversy, payment, control is often put forward. With regard to the importance, it can also be argued here that the future challenges outlined are often so comprehensive that they transcend individual waterboards. The emphasis on sub-interests within one waterboard is decreasing. As far as payment is concerned, opponents of the abolition of the secure seat will easily ignore the fact that companies simply pay for the statutory treatment of their waste water. They just have to pay. That's not the point of that controversy. The OECD is critical of the idea that there is a tension in the system between the polluter pays principle and the polluter. As far as the interest of the people, the resident, is concerned, it is equally relevant to name the following. They pay a water system charge. They paid a quarter of that in 1995. That doubled in 2018; then it became half. So you can see that people are going to pay more and more for water. Of the category built, i.e. companies and residents, they now pay 80% of the tax. So people have a real interest in being well represented in the waterboards. You will note that the level and distribution of the levy are not determined by water boards themselves. That is true, but the actual financing of the waterboards significantly detracts from the argument of importance, payment, control, which some of you have brought in. Mr. Chairman. It has already been mentioned: internationally they praise our system. Why should we improve anything if it's okay? That is what the supporters of the secure seat indicate. The OECD is also cited. We too, as initiator, believe that the waterboards have done an excellent job. We have dry feet. They're skilled, professional and hardworking. But to give the proper functioning of the water boards as an argument for maintaining the secure seat is strictly a misconception. I looked it up; it's a totum pro parte. You take the whole thing. You can see that's working well. Then you say that the secure seat also works well. That is the nice thing: if you read what the OECD writes about it correctly, you will see that the OECD is critical of the secure seat. On page 276 of the report it says that there is a culture where companies have control over the waterboard rather than the wider public. A relatively small group of organisations has been put in charge by the structure. The OECD calls it "an overrepresentation of certain interests" on page 278, such as that of companies. The OECD fears that certain votes will remain unheard of. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the question: why now, if the system has worked well in recent years, under challenging circumstances? Finally, I would like to quote on page 62 of the OECD report. It says: "The recognition that water boards have made a long-term contribution to Dutch water management does not mean that the status quo should continue. As in all sectors, the governance system must adapt to the changing demands of society." That is exactly what the proposers intend to do. Mr President, I will conclude. The applicants have argued that the argument that the water boards have been doing well for 800 years can be used precisely to abolish the secured seats. Adjust and survive. The authors also argued that although the formal mandate of the waterboards has not changed, the decisions affect us all to a large extent. This also affects the function of the waterboards for all of us. A closed house hasn't been around for a few years. Thus, the importance greatly exceeds the interest of those directly involved in the controversy, payment, control. The OECD had already found that their interests had been overrepresented. With the professionalization and expansion of the water boards, the knowledge component of the depositors has also become less relevant. In this context, the authors consider that the list system is well placed to include farmers' interests and other specific interests, such as nature's, in the decision-making process. In the political debate that follows, each party will bring in what it considers to be the public interest. Logically, the final decision that follows from this debate reflects the public interest. The waterboards as we know them now are a historically grown hybrid freak. With our proposal, we are preparing the waterboards for future challenges that will be great and will affect us all. In doing so, we welcome them definitively in our public, democratic system, in which any decision can only be about public interests and about nothing else.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-3.u49	This was a very clear statement by Mr De Groot, so I would like to congratulate him on that. We still differ on a few points of understanding and opinion. I have one more question that has not really been answered and which I believe belongs to Mr De Groot. That is why they have chosen to focus in the initiative only on abolishing the secure seats, i.e. on the composition of the board, whereas it is actually one building block in a larger whole. The waterboards are a fine structure, I said in my first term. It's a system of communicating vessels. The legal role of the water authority, the way in which interests are represented, institutional organisation and taxation are not available separately. Now we are going to focus on one aspect that is available separately. What is the reaction of the authors, in this case Mr De Groot?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-3.u50	We're still very supportive of that fine structure. We have also paid great attention to this, but that is in Mrs Bromet's contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-3.u51	I thank Mr De Groot. Then I give the floor to Mrs Bromet.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-3.u52	Mr. Chairman. I'm going to start with the block about what the consequences are for those involved in the waterboard. As my colleague Tjeerd de Groot has just said, many questions were raised by the Chamber about what exactly we intend to do with the law. Another issue on which many questions have been asked is precisely what the consequences are for the different stakeholders and their interests. A number of Members of Parliament, including Mr Stoffer, Mr Van der Molen, Mrs Van der Plas and Mr Minhas, have asked a lot of questions about the interests of farmers and nature organisations. Are they not disproportionately affected by the decisions of the waterboards? Isn't this bill disproportionately affecting their interests? Let me say first of all that we understand that question. We can well imagine that when government decisions can affect your personal life or your business operations, you wonder: what does that mean for my situation? I would therefore like to answer this question in detail. We see, of course, that there are interests of farmers and nature conservation organisations in the work of the waterboards. But we also see that these interests are valued in all sections of the general administration of the waterboards and that these interests are carefully weighed. I regularly speak with water scientists and I have never had the impression that the interests of the rural area are not being heard and are not being carefully weighed. Mr Stoffer raised this point. I hadn't seen you yet, Mr. Stoffer, but I see where you are now. Excuse me; that was me. Mr President, as Mr Stoffer said in his first term, he was a member of the general administration on behalf of the SGP as a directly elected representative of the people. I am convinced that in those years Mr Stoffer has always worked hard for the good balance of interests, for farmers and for nature conservation organisations. In the question of whether the interests of certain groups are disproportionately affected by this legislative proposal, the hypothesis is that a government that is completely democratically elected is suddenly not going to weigh interests properly. We do not share that analysis. We see water boards that often have very good officials preparing administrative decisions, taking the interests of all those involved, and we see them taking careful decisions on the basis of that information. In one waterboard, the final decisions will be slightly different from those in the other waterboard, but that is part of the political choices that are being made. This is also the case in the municipal councils, in the Provincial States and here in the Chamber. We do not share the concern that this bill would hit certain interests disproportionately hard. We are confident that voters will vote wisely and that elected directors will make careful decisions. More democracy can also mean that farmers or nature organisations are given more power or influence. Earlier in the debate it has been said that it is actually very strange that LTO, of which only 55% of farmers are members, provides a reserved place in the waterboards, while 45% of farmers are not represented by LTO at all. If candidates running for election are good farmers' interests, for example the importance of food supplies, voters will also be inclined to vote for these people. That could mean that candidates representing that interest would get more seats. That's democracy. And to stay in watercrafts: we as initiators have no fear of cold water.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-3.u53	Thank you for your glowing speech. I did get a déjà vu, a déjà vu from the debate on the Environment Act in which we both sat. I understand that Mrs Bromet will shortly make a link with the relationship between the introduction of the Environmental Act and the task concept of waterboards. The argument that it used to eventually vote against, among other things, the Environmental Act was that interested parties.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... These are certainties in spatial planning provided by the current law. That is why I am now making the link with the amendment to this initiative proposal. You say that we must safeguard the interests of these stakeholders, but if we introduce the Environment Act, those interests will be out of the picture and we have no confidence that politicians, aldermen and the city council will be able to defend them adequately. In your speech, you say that the democratically elected members of the water authority can represent these interests, and we are confident in that. How do you rhyme with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-3.u54	What I am saying is very consistent, and that also applies to my argument against the Environment Act. Now it's like this. If there's a zoning plan, it's been established by the city council. That council was elected by all the inhabitants of the municipality. All residents know that the zoning plan states what they're up to. The Surroundings Act's kind of messing that up. That is what my speech on the Environment Act was about. That law makes what the neighbors think of something much more important and the assurances that government gives are actually thrown over the fence of people who have to discuss with each other whether or not to be important of a particular interest. That's what I was talking about in the Environment Act. The zoning plans that are now in place are not made by residents. Those are made by city councils that are fully elected. And that is what we intend to do with the waterboards.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-3.u55	Without repeating that debate, that is correct. I'm sure the first part of your story is true. You have indeed indicated that those planning plans offer certain guarantees. But in its present composition, the water authorities also offer these assurances to the small group which will not be sufficiently represented if we abolish those secured seats. That is our position. What you said in that debate on the Environment Act is that participation is taking place and the securities are disappearing. But in the end it is always up to a city council or a college of B and W to consider whether the participation took place in a careful manner. That's what the Minister said there. In that debate, you said: we have no confidence in it. That is why you voted against the Environment Act, while the Minister stressed that in the end it is always up to a democratically elected government to consider whether there has been a proper balance of interests in order to change the zoning plan. You voted against it. Now you're suggesting that we do it another way. That doesn't rhyme.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-3.u56	Well, I think it rhymes. I am not going to repeat my entire position on the Environment Act in detail here. As initiators, we think it is important for the citizens of the Netherlands to be involved in the decisions that are taken here. We don't want reserved places locked out in advance in an election. We just want every citizen of the Netherlands to be able to go to the polls every four years and say: this is important to me. That is already the case with the municipal councils, but that is not yet the case with the water boards. Another question raised by several political groups concerns the impact of the legislative proposal on the level of the waterboard tax. It also asked how we look at the relationship between the different categories in the tax contribution. Preliminary draft law is not about a revision of the tax system. There's a separate trajectory for that. The water boards themselves have drawn up an opinion and sent it to the Minister in which they put forward proposals for a revised system. As initiators of this legislative proposal, we have no idea at this stage, but I assume that the Minister will answer the questions about it in his term. Mr Grinwis spoke in his speech about the fact that an average agricultural holding still pays ten times as much tax as a multi-person household. That's right. In 2021, a family paid on average €349 and an agricultural holding on average €4.404, although the variation between the agricultural holdings is very large. A small company pays much less and a large company pays much more. We do not think that comparing attacks at individual level is so relevant, because that would mean that large companies would always have more to say than a large group of citizens or a smaller company. We think it is better to look at the macro figures. Then we see that households pay 80% of the water system tax. And as I said, this bill is not about the waterboard taxes. The system is established here in the Lower House by law. In the water boards, the boards, within the legal frameworks, determine the exact height of the load. At the heart of the questions that have been put to us here is whether we believe that the level of the contribution of certain categories of taxable persons justifies the secure seats. We don't think so. Indeed, I say to Mr Grinwis, we have put forward arguments as to why the controversies of importance, payment and control no longer apply. We have done this mainly because we do not believe that the arguments for maintaining the seats are working. I may repeat myself, but to avoid any ambiguity, this bill is not about the tax system. So there is no one who is suddenly going to pay more or less taxes because of this bill. Mr Van der Molen asked us how we look at the waterboards as collaborations. He argued that this bill increases the separation between implementation and politics and that this would not be a solution to the problems. Let me begin with the agreement between Mr Van der Molen and us as initiators. We agree that the water authorities, as well as municipalities and provinces, should set a good example when it comes to cooperation between government, companies and residents. I think that everyone in this Chamber agrees that we need to maintain these good cooperations and perhaps improve them. I would therefore like to endorse the indirect compliment that Mr Van der Molen made to the waterboards and the other stakeholders. But then there is the difference between Mr Van der Molen's and ours. Unlike the CDA Group, we do not have the impression that abolishing the secure seats will change the good cooperation between the waterboards such as the government and the farmers and the land managers. Indeed, they often work well together in the execution and that is not going to change anything. The fundamental difference between the CDA and us is that we believe that in a democracy, the administrative frameworks are set by elected representatives of the people, while the CDA believes that a permanent place is needed here for a number of secure categories. We do not see at all why this legislative proposal separates implementation from politics. The divorce's already here. Where decisions are taken on the basis of majority decision-making, there is by definition political decision-making, even now, but how that decision-making is then implemented does not change that at all. Following on from Mr Van der Molen's question, Mrs Van der Plas asked a question about the contribution of farmers to the work of water boards. She said that farmers play an essential role in transferring their knowledge of the area to the waterboard. She said she was afraid that this bill would require expensive agencies to take over this work from now on. We do not share Mrs van der Plas' concerns. First of all, many farmers are already active in various parties which are represented by elections in the water authorities. My colleague, Mr De Groot, just mentioned the percentage of 14. Farmers do indeed provide a lot of knowledge, but at the moment they also supply that knowledge without the need for a secure seat, in many consultation rounds, for example, but also in the services they are paid for by the water boards. In addition, employees of water boards working in the field have very good contacts with farmers in the area. And this bill doesn't change anything about that. We believe that the assumption that farmers' knowledge would no longer be provided if the secure seat were abolished is incorrect. Mrs van der Plas also asked a question about the impact of this bill on water levels and water quality. She wondered if when there would be no more secure seats, water quality would suddenly rise. In general, I think it is right to note that anyone who is actively involved in the waterboard or in water management wants water quality to be as good as possible. Good water quality is in the interests of all of us, and I think Mrs van der Plas will agree on that. But specifically Mrs van der Plas' question. This bill is purely about further democratizing the waterboards. Whether the polls go up or down and what the impact on water quality will be will not be covered by this bill. That's up to the directors of the waterboards. We are convinced that the representatives of the people in the waterboards can make the best choices as to which decision contributes most to water quality in a specific area. The people's representatives will have to make a choice of substance. In one waterboard that choice will be made more in one direction and in the other waterboard more in the other direction. That's what's happening now. It is then ultimately up to the electorate to decide after four years whether the government has made the right choices over the last four years. Mr Madlener, like the initiators, shares the view that more democracy is good for our society and for governance, but he also has concerns because he wonders how care is taken to ensure that the interests of the farmer do not undersnow. First of all, I think Mr Madlener had a point to make when he indicated that not all farmers felt represented by the secure seats. Not every farmer has exactly the same interests. We too have spoken in the run-up to the legal treatment of farmers who are in favour of this bill and farmers who are opposed to it. Maybe that's at the heart of this bill. Not everyone in a particular profession has exactly the same interests. This applies to farmers, and that applies to citizens. That is why we believe it is so important that everyone can decide which party and which candidate can best represent his or her interests in direct elections.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-3.u57	There is a great deal of democracy protected by the initiators of this proposal, in the sense that democracy is so important. Looking at the times we're living in now, my question is how democratic it really is when RES's are rolled out all over the country and you get a solar park or a 200-metre-high windmill next door. What is democratic about that? You may have some talk, but it's still being built. So I do not think there is any question of democracy at all. What you're pretending here is a bit of a false pretence. As a follow-up, I would like to ask Mrs Bromet, through the President, whether it is not simply the case that farmers and businesses are seen as an obstacle to the green agenda that you aspire to.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-3.u58	The example of the RES is, first and foremost, a good example of how democracy works. There is no windmill in the Netherlands except that a city council, a provincial government or we as a state government have approved it. That is what we are voting on with all elected representatives. If there is a wind farm or windmill planned somewhere that most of the inhabitants do not agree with, they can vote against parties in elections. It happens all the time. During the last municipal elections, real agreements were made on changing plans made by a previous government, which was also elected. And what was the second question about?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-3.u59	The second question was whether, as initiators, you actually see farmers and businesses as an obstacle to your green agenda.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-3.u60	But then forget...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-3.u61	Mr. Gold Sword.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-3.u62	Then Mr Goudswaard forgets that the natural organizations also have secure seats and we want to abolish them. We want to abolish all reserved places, including those nature organisations. That would be against an alleged green agenda, so that is absolutely no argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-3.u63	You will continue your speech. Or do you want to ask another question? That's the case. Mr. Gold Sword.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-3.u64	I would like to comment on it, because in the Provincial States you often see a lot of residents coming to us. They say: you will then be included in the framework of the energy transition and the climate agenda, and there you will also be very much concerned about taking part in the plans for windmills, but at the end of the story they will just be in your backyard. A new example of this cabinet is the heat pumps that will be placed in 2026. So it's only compulsion that hits the drum. So I do not really see what is democratic about it, and I do not understand why you have no confidence in the current functional management and that you want to throw it overboard.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-3.u65	GroenLinks has a lot of confidence in the voter. We believe that, if there are elections, a voter can very well judge what interests he wants to give priority to. When it comes to the heat pumps mentioned by Mr Goudswaard, it has been a motion from my colleague Tom van der Lee together with CDA'er Mr Bontenbal, who has received a majority here in the Chamber. So that's just "most votes apply." That's really superdemocratic. It was then implemented by a cabinet. So this example of heat pumps is really a very wrong example of being non-democratic. What is not democratic is that you reserve places in a waterboard and say: those nature organisations, those farmers and those companies are allowed to sit there and about the rest of the seats the voter may say something. We do not think that is democratic at all. That's exactly why we made this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-3.u66	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-3.u67	We are convinced that this bill does not affect the interests of farmers. Farmers can apply, even after the adoption of this bill, through existing or new parties. Mrs Van der Plas has already indicated that her party is considering taking part in the waterboard elections. We welcome that, because if the polls do not deceive us, her party can also count on a lot of support. The advantage of this bill is that every farmer and every citizen decides who can best represent his or her sound on the board on his or her behalf. So it is not, as it is now, some agricultural organisations that decide who gets on the board. Mr Madlener said that he heard a lot of noises from farmers who feel that their interests are not being properly represented. We believe that these interests will be better protected in general elections. And as we said earlier, farmers' interests are already carefully weighed by the directly elected directors in the waterboards. I would also find it a misconception of their position to say that these elected directors would have no knowledge or would not weigh farmers' interests, because they do. This bill does not change at all the substantive policy of the waterboards or the level of taxes. This bill merely ensures that all seats in the parliament are elected by all the electorate. These representatives then determine the substantive policy, just as happens here in the Lower House, in the provinces and at municipal level. Finally, Mr President, the question raised by Mr Grinwis, among others, on the legal tasks of the waterboards, and on the relationship between this bill and the implementation of the Environment Act. As Mr Grinwis rightly points out, the legal task of the waterboard, included in Article 1 of the Water Authority Act, is to provide a certain area with water resources. The tasks assigned to the waterboards for that purpose are: the care of the water system, which includes the prevention of damage to water resources caused by, for example, muskrats or beaver rats, the care of the purification of wastewater and the care of one or more water-state issues to be ordered. These can be waterways, but in some waterboards they are the roads themselves. In addition, the water boards are managed by the Water Act if the Minister in his capacity as Minister of IenW is not the administrator. Therefore, they must take the necessary measures to ensure the safe and efficient management of these dams within the framework and rules of the Water Act. The waterboard also has the power to grant permits. And the province can designate water boards for the management and care of regional waters. Waterboards should draw up management plans, identify investors and take level decisions. As far as the Environment Act is concerned, the following. The debate rightly said that the essence of the legal task of the waterboard does not change. This has just been discussed with Mr De Groot in an interruption. At the same time, this is good to stress.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The Environment Act recognises water as an important ordering principle and the policy space for water boards to take action is increasing. Think, for example, of the freshwater supply and climate adaptation in residential areas. The Boelhouwer Committee noted that the spatial translation of the necessary future water management adjustments has therefore become one of the main tasks of the water boards. As a result, the border between the provinces and the municipalities fades. The decisions of water boards are becoming increasingly important to all of us. Mr De Groot has just explained this in detail. With this broader and more integrated view of the physical environment, there will be more administrative consideration space for local authorities and therefore also for water boards. We also see that water boards are much more often involved in these spatial considerations, because their work is important for that purpose. The role of citizen participation is also enhanced in the Environment Act. Waterboards need to establish their own participation rules. Mr. Chairman. The one about the Environment Act. That is also the end of the second block.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-3.u68	Let's talk about the Environment Act. Municipalities must draw up a municipal environment vision, provinces have a task, the Empire has a task. But the waterboards do not have that task at all. Water boards work very closely with provinces when it comes to water management. That's what they did before. In the Environment Act, agreements have been proposed to do water management in a good way, in cooperation. But that does not require further democratization of the water authorities, does it? I don't understand the connection. I would like to hear from the initiators, through Mrs Bromet in this case, what is the connection between the abolition of the secure seats and the advent of the Environment Act, in order to ensure that the implementation of the Environment Act takes place in a careful way.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-3.u69	First of all, the Environment Act has not been an argument for us to want to abolish the secured seats. We simply want the waterboards to be more democratic. There are still many adjacent areas, such as the Environment Act, that interact with them. But we think that might be useful. In fact, the Environment Act will also require the water authorities to play their part in a certain development in an area. The input that the waterboards then provide, the position they take, must have been democratic for us. It must reflect what the people in the waterboard actually find. This is entirely in line with our proposal to democratize the waterboards. Then there is the second block in my contribution: why was the design of this law chosen? A number of political groups have asked questions about the chosen form of the law. I'll answer those questions in this block. Let me begin with the most fundamental question on this point. That was a question from Mr Stoffer. He asked us why we did not choose to lift the waterboards and place them with the provinces or the municipalities. We have expressly not opted for this. As initiators, we believe that the waterboards have an important role to play in the spatial design of our country. The water boards and the provinces usually work well together. However, we believe that the waterboards should be made more democratic and that the overall administration should be made up of candidates elected by the electorate. In addition, the water boards have been designed along water flows and thus have different boundaries than the provinces. Mr Stoffer also asked why we did not follow the two earlier opinions, which were in favour of the retention of the secure seats, but followed the third opinion of the Boelhouwer committee, which wanted to abolish the secure seats. We have, of course, read with interest the opinions which Mr Stoffer refers to, all three of them. As far as we are concerned, the arguments put forward in the Boelhouwer Committee's latest report to abolish the secure seats are most in line with the principles which we consider important and which weigh most, namely that all representatives of the people are directly elected by the electorate. A number of Members of Parliament, including Mr Stoffer and Mr van der Molen, have asked questions about the relationship between this bill and the opinions of the Boelhouwer Committee and the two earlier opinions of the committees. For example, they specifically asked whether we agree with the Boelhouwer Committee's assessment of the need to provide a sound basis for the secure seats for the categories of unbuilt and nature reserves. The Boelhouwer Committee concludes that the elected representatives of political parties are perfectly capable of putting the administrative discussions on all specific interests into their consideration. In addition, the Committee's report states that two of the four categories of arguments are to be given. By this the committee refers to unbuilt and nature. For the category of companies, the Committee no longer sees any argument. The initiators share the analysis of the Boelhouwer Committee that the survival of the secured seats for companies is not at all logical. This does not mean that we see good reasons for the other two categories of secured seats. I have just said that the committee's conclusion is that the elected parties are perfectly capable of weighing their interests. As far as we are concerned, that is the essence of a representative democracy, consisting entirely of directly elected representatives of the people. Of course, farmers and nature managers have interests in water management, but so do residents. We therefore see no added value in separate secured seats for specific categories. We have confidence in the electorate. We believe that the electorate elects representatives of the people who have an eye for all interests, as well as city council members and members of Provincial States have. We do not agree with Mr Van der Molen that the child should be thrown away with the bath water. The knowledge, skills and involvement of farmers and nature managers, for example, can be preserved if they are directly elected or if they provide input through representatives of the people representing their interests. Finally, on this point, I would like to add that it would be a little naive to pretend that the holders of the secured seats that are now there are no political companies. They have views on all matters in the waterboard and they vote on everything. Sometimes, as Boelhouwer writes, they even form a joint group. There's nothing wrong with that as far as we're concerned. After all, they are also participants in democracy, where interests are weighed and decisions are taken. The only fundamental difference is that we say: we want to choose them all directly. That's why we made this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-3.u70	I think it comes up in another block, but Mrs Bromet has said so many times now that she has confidence in the electorate, that I can't resist it. Why is this bill not a choice for the directly elected dike?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-3.u71	We actually wanted to make a lean-and-mean legislative proposal, because you can see that there are already a lot of debates about such a simple change in our view from a category of secured seats to a fully democratically elected government. We thought that if you were going to bring about other useful changes, this debate, this discussion, would be even greater, with the risk that everything would remain the same. This has been a way for us to start with the most important reform.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-3.u72	That is tactically a very understandable choice, but I can clearly hear Mrs Bromet say that it would be a useful change.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-3.u73	I will come back to it in a moment in the rest of my speech. Mr Van der Molen asked whether we have considered alternative variants and how we look at other forms of participation. We haven't considered an alternative variant. This is because the essence of the proposal is to allow waterboards to be made up entirely of directly elected representatives of the people. We find the Boelhouwer Committee's recommendation for other forms of participation interesting, but it seems to us that it is up to the water authorities themselves to assess whether they consider this to be an addition to the elected parliament and whether they are going to use it. For us as initiators, it is essential that a public representative body, such as the general administration of a waterboard, should be elected by all electoral residents. Mr Van der Molen also asked us to comment on the point made in the Boelhouwer Committee's report that secure seats for certain categories could be important for the support for the execution of the work. I understood Mr Van der Molen's question in such a way that he asked whether this would not be an argument for us to allow the secure seats to exist for the categories of unbuilt and nature. We support the importance of knowledge and skills from different categories. However, we disagree with those in favour of the secure seats, because we believe that people's representatives should be elected directly and should not go through reserved places of government. We must also be careful to ignore the many careful work done by the elected waterboard drivers. As I said just now, they too often have a lot of expertise and knowledge. In addition, the implementation of the work of the water boards is not done by the general government members, but by officials and other stakeholders working with them, such as farmers and land managers. That can also continue to be the case if this law is passed. The only difference is that the political and administrative frameworks are determined by a fully elected general government. People's representatives must always work on their support, whether someone is here in the Chamber, in the city council or in a waterboard. Without support in society, no director or politician can make good decisions and no government can do its job properly. As far as we are concerned, it is also a wrong contradiction, which seems to suggest that there could be no support for all the representatives being directly elected. I would say, quite the contrary. If you go to the voter once every four years to determine whether there is any support for the way you control your waterboard, it is by leaving it all to the voter instead of reserving certain seats for people who have been there for a long time.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-3.u74	In this case, these people don't have to be there for very long. Even for secure seats some effort must be made to find people willing, sometimes also for some clear periods. But that is not the most important point that Mrs Bromet made. As far as the CDA is concerned, there's some sort of administrative idea behind it. That is how we read Mr Boelhouwer's report. At a time when specific sectors that are essential for carrying out the waterboard's task have a place in the decision-making process I'm just putting an administrative hat on........................................................................................................................................................................................................... Not so much to say "that's the democratic place she deserves," but you also tie them into a trade-off that is being made, so that they also bind them to the implementation of the choices that are being made. Does Mrs Bromet also see that the point made by the Boelhouwer committee might have been that it would have been useful for you to talk with this group, which is essential for its implementation, and perhaps decide on the course of a waterboard?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-3.u75	That's in the waterboard processes. There are a lot of participatory moments and pathways. I also think it is the task of a waterboard to collect what is important in society. I would really find it a disqualification of the waterboard drivers if they did not. This is just their job. We, as representatives of the people, should also go into society to see what the feeling is there, to be able to do our job properly here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-3.u76	Then perhaps I've been unclear. The point I want to make against Mrs Bromet is not so much that I do not think that general government members or executives should play their part in listening to society. I think that's a very modern concept of how you control or represent. The point I make is that there can also be another advantage of secure seats. If you have had a heated discussion about which way to go with a waterboard and the policy, then it may be an advantage for implementation that specific groups, which determine the full implementation in the field, have also had a role in the decisions. That's more the administrative side. If you're part of the decision-making process and you've spoken to each other, you'll cooperate faster than you haven't decided. Does Mrs Bromet see or see that this gap can only be filled by directors who organise a public consultation meeting?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-3.u77	I am trying to find an analogy with the decisions that we take here as fully elected House of Representatives and the decisions that need to be implemented. In a democracy, the majority of votes apply, and when decisions are taken in accordance with democratic principles, then they will be taken in the same way. You can't agree with that, but you have to. In the Netherlands, you just have to abide by the law. We are all doing our best to do this with sufficient support, but I think it is far-fetched to bind people to do something or not because they themselves have contributed to the decision-making process.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-3.u78	You will continue your speech. But Mr Grinwis would also like to comment on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-3.u79	It is in itself a clear statement, but can Mrs Bromet comment on... Each time in her reply, the idea of "one man, one vote" is pierced by "one man, one vote" which makes sense, also for a functional body such as the waterboard, then a interest group democracy or, in other words, a guarantee democracy. Can Mrs Bromet go into that again? This was very brief in the note on the report. There was a bit of a reference to the Fat Van Dale. With all due respect, that's a very nice book, but that's not a good basis yet. That guarantee democracy that we form together in the waterboards is worth a lot. We have to cherish it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-3.u80	The question has been asked before, so I would like to ask Mrs Bromet for a brief and powerful...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-3.u81	Yes. I can give you one example. The arguments that advocate the preservation of the secure seats have also been the arguments in previous centuries to keep the decision-making in the nobility, for example, and not to let the ordinary people decide. We think that the Netherlands is ready that we can now let the people take part in the decision. Mr. Chairman. We have also been asked a number of questions about the fact that, with this bill, we have only abolished the secure seats and have not taken over other adjustments proposed, for example, by Boelhouwer's Committee. Mr Sneller, Mr Grinwis and Mrs Maatoug, among others, asked about the number of seats. It is true that the bill does not lay down the number of seats legally. In the Waterschapwet, the starting point is that provinces are responsible for the elaboration of the size of the administration, and for this purpose, it is currently laid down that the majority of directors must be directly elected. It would indeed have been possible to set the number of seats in this bill. This would mean that the provinces would lose their jurisdiction. We have not seen this as a fundamental element of this legislative proposal, but if a majority of the Chamber thinks it is logical to regulate this by law, then we can imagine something about it. Then we would have no objection to that either. But that will require a new discussion about what exactly would be a logical number. Mr Sneller asked us, also just by interrupting, for a number of other possible changes to the system, such as further dualisation and crown appointment. Indeed, as Mr Sneller himself said, the crown designation was not mentioned in any of the opinions. We have not heard anything about this explicitly in the preparation of our law, but we do understand his question, given Mr Sneller's contribution here. If Mr Sneller thinks this is an important point, he can also consider making a proposal himself. We don't have to change everything here. Unlike the deconstitutionalisation of the method of appointment of the mayor and the king's commissioner, the dike digging can simply be regulated by the Waterschapswet. With regard to other suggestions put forward by Mr Sneller, the proposal concerns only the further democratization of the waterboards by abolishing the secure seats. As far as the initiators are concerned, this is really the most fundamental point. That is why I have said this a hundred times in my contribution. However, we can imagine that other changes that have been mentioned can also be implemented in the future. Honesty also commands us to say that the more extensive this bill had become, the more complicated it would have been to find a majority for this in the Chamber. Furthermore, although this is completely separate from this bill, Mrs Leijten's proposal for the remedially binding referendum provides for an amendment which also provides for the possibility of a referendum for the waterboards. Mr Grinwis asked us whether, in this form of the bill, we are not pulling out one building block from the ragfine structure of the waterboards, because we have literally written down the words 'it is a system of communicating vessels, in which the legal task of the waterboard and the manner of the representation of interests cannot be seen separately from institutional organisation and taxation'. We see, like the Christian Union, that there are more issues with regard to the spatial task and the organization of the decentralised administration in relation to the waterboards. But it is not the case that changes can only be made if they solve all the issues directly. If only it were that simple, I'd almost like to say, we would have solved everything with this bill. In addition, it would also be an undesirable situation if changes could only be made if there were proposals for revision in all areas. In the end, nothing happens at all. This legislative proposal focuses solely on the further democratisation of the water authorities. With this proposal, we will ensure that the entire board is directly elected. The other issues raised by Mr Grinwis are also relevant but often require a broader consideration. Take, for example, the tax system of water boards. I just said something about that. The Minister is working on all the opinions in this area. Of course, this is in general line with this legislative proposal, but it is also independent of it, because whatever revision of the tax system will take place, a general government in any composition can do so in one's own waterboard. We do not see the danger as Mr Grinwis sees it. The Council of State has no concern about this either. In the first term of the Chamber, it was also a question of the obligation that the secure seats should also be part of the day-to-day administration. Mr Grinwis intended to table an amendment to that effect. I do not know if that has already been submitted.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-3.u82	That's the case. That is the amendment to item No. 13.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-3.u83	Okay, that just filed. In that amendment, he is considering the obligation that the secured seats should be part of the executive board of the law. As initiators, we are opposed to secure seats and thus automatically against secure seats in the daily administration. Of course, we agree with Mr Grinwis that, if there are secure seats, they should not automatically be on the executive board. But we are really going to discourage his amendment, because we have a proposal that is much more fundamental. We want to abolish the seats that have been secured. In doing so, we have automatically fulfilled Mr Grinwis's wish. There was also an interruption debate during the first term between Mr Madlener and Mr Grinwis in which Mr Grinwis said that his amendment to remove the mandatory place of the secure seats in the executive board is the perfect solution to the concerns expressed by Mr Madlener about the fact that some parties and some water boards are actually kept out of the executive board. In the direction of Mr Madlener, I would like to stress that Mr Grinwis's proposal is a step in the right direction, but it is really not enough for us. With our proposal, we want to democratize the waterboards completely and let the electorate decide who is to be in general government, and thus also let the electorate decide who has a chance of getting a seat in the daily administration. Finally. Oh, no, not finally. Mrs Maatoug asked whether, if this bill is adopted, the situation could arise that some waterboards would be left with too little governance because they would fall below the 18 seat limit. Indeed, it is true that the Water Authority Act stipulates that a general administration must consist of at least 18 members and may have up to 30 members. The exact size, as mentioned earlier, is determined within the range by the Provincial States of the province concerned. There is no problem in itself, because if this proposal is adopted, the Provincial States will have to adapt their regulations governing the number of seats to the modified waterboards. However, in order to respond to Mrs Maatoug's concerns, we have tabled a fourth letter of amendment, which ensures that there are not too few water authorities if provinces have not amended regulations in time. Finally, Mr President. Mr Grinwis asked us whether we would think it a good idea to place all the secured seats in a separate advisory committee to give unsolicited written advice on all points of discussion in general administration. Oh, Mr Grinwis shakes no. Well, that's a misunderstanding, then. Let me say in general terms: we think it is always good that residents or organisations are actively involved and are involved in the decision-making process of governments. But the question is whether you should settle that in the law. We believe that interest groups have often managed to find their way to the waterboards.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-3.u84	Thank you. Then we are going to listen to Mr De Groot.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-3.u85	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have a block of other questions. Mr Sneller asked us about our view of increasing the turnout rate in the waterboard elections. The turnout rates are indeed relatively low. In 2015, it was only 43.5% of voters. At the same time, we have seen an upward trend since the merger of the watership elections with the Provincial State elections. In 2019 it was 51.3%. That was really high. Anyway, that percentage has to go up, of course. The proposers did, however, have some ideas about what has helped in the past to raise turnout, such as voting aid, a awareness campaign and at the same time holding these elections with other major elections. But these questions are ultimately on the board of the Minister of IenW. I invite the Minister to reflect on this, because there is, of course, much to suggest that this turnout is high. At the moment when there is really something to choose, that is what our proposal is about, and that is, of course, a reason to vote. As a citizen, you can really influence the water management of the region in which you live. Mr. Chairman. The SGP was curious how many farmers are on the list of Water Natural. We checked, but we haven't been able to find out about the privacy laws. We know that there are a number of farmers on the Water list, of course, but we cannot further support that. That also confirms the image that there is no such thing as one type of farmer. The whole spectrum of this Chamber is, of course, also within the farmers themselves. They are of course very at home and welcome to Water Of course. On pages 16 and 17 of the opinion of the Boelhouwer Committee it can be read that the category unbuilt, the agricultural category, is also well represented through the list system. I referred to that earlier. Then the Party for Animals. She wanted to know whether people sitting on a secure seat are also connected to a political party. This was tricky, too. The Ministry's been digging into it. They indicated that it is at least possible that this is the case, because it is not prohibited by law. But it hasn't been investigated. Through our network we do know some examples of people who combine different side functions, also as an advisor to companies. That is, of course, very unusual, but not prohibited. We don't think it's nice to mention their name. Mr. Chairman. I had already said for a while that the Boelhouwer committee also carried out a quick scan of those elected who also have a close relationship with the agricultural sector. There's a lot of them. In some water boards this is even a quarter, but on average it is 14%. Mr. Chairman. The groups of GroenLinks, D66, the Party for Animals and the CDA were concerned about the timetable of this proposal towards the forthcoming watership elections. We're aware of that. We attach great importance to a proper process and to clarity for all concerned. That is still possible within the timeframe that we have foreseen. I therefore invite the Chamber to proceed to the vote as soon as possible. Then the proposal, if adopted, can be sent to the First Chamber. Mr. Chairman. The Group of the Party of Animals asked how the relationship between control and the payment of the water system levy has changed in recent years, because this has gone on the basis of the World Health Organisation value. The World Health Organization's value has increased considerably in recent years. You can see that households have indeed started to pay relatively much more. House prices have risen, but the value of business premises has decreased. This development has contributed to an increasing share of the water system levy being levied by citizens and residents.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-3.u86	I thank Mr De Groot for his answer to the question I asked. I asked: how neat are we now dealing with the direct stakeholders in this legislative process? The committees are already in the process of recruiting candidates and having conversations. What is another decent planning according to Mr De Groot? It has to go to the First Chamber after this. It'll take him a while. When it runs into the autumn, we all have people who are warming up for a place in the waterboard. They're then cut off because we're lifting the spots.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-3.u87	The proposers assume that the bill for the summer can pass through the Upper House. Then it can be further worked out so that clarity can be provided in time for those concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-3.u88	I sometimes have expectations about the speed of the First Chamber, but they have not always come true. I take Mr De Groot's remark in such a way that if the First Chamber were to decide before the summer, there would be no problem. If it is later, the proposers will see a problem. Then we're really talking about a situation where we'd be dealing a little inappropriately with an administrative layer like the waterboard. Am I getting it together that well?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-3.u89	Yes. The applicants consider that this should be done in a very careful manner, hence the call for urgency. If it doesn't work for any reason, the law will come into force four years later. Mr President, I have come to the end of this block. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-3.u90	I would also like to thank Mr De Groot. We're gonna listen to the minister, advisor to the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-3.u91	Mr President, thank you for the floor. First of all, I would also like to congratulate Mr Minhas on his maiden speech, which he held on 21 April in the first term of this debate. Mr. Chairman. For my part, I would like to give a few general reflections on the debate, leading to the cabinet's position on the initiative legislative proposal. Then I will reply to the questions asked to me in the first term. Today we are talking about the administration of one of the oldest government battles in our country, the waterboards. In particular, we are talking about the organisation of the administration of the water boards. My predecessor, Minister Van Nieuwenhuizen, set up the Boelhouwer Commission around the secured seats in the water boards. It delivered an opinion in May 2020. That opinion was often cited in the debate. Afterwards, the Consultation Body Physical Environment explored the basis for the opinions. You have received both reports. It is indicated that the requested decision-making information is available in order to consider possible changes to the current system with secure seats. Because of today's debate, we have also recently discussed this issue in the Council of Ministers and we have reached a position. In doing so, we have brought together a number of five elements. Firstly, waterboards are an important co-government now and in the future. Climate change is forcing us to pay more and more attention to water management. It is not for nothing that the coalition agreement states that water and soil must be steered for spatial planning. From the written examination, the Cabinet noted that the existence of water boards is not under discussion. On behalf of the cabinet, I would like to wholeheartedly endorse that. Secondly, the water authority stands for an integral balance of interests. Decisions of water authorities concern water management. In the light of climate change, these will have an increasing impact on the organisation of the Netherlands, the use of land and the processes of companies. The need for an integrated balance of all interests, which has always been present, is becoming increasingly evident. The challenges posed by the climate and the task of, for example, the Water Framework Directive make it increasingly clear to more and more citizens that this is a responsibility for any water authority. Thirdly, we have acknowledged that managing a waterboard requires knowledge of the practice. Climate change makes the challenges more complex and urgent. A waterboard board will have to focus more on what works and does not work in everyday practice. The fact that a board is supported by knowledge and expertise in the waterboard helps, but also the ability of the drivers themselves to assess efficient and effective water management is important. Mr. Chairman. Then there's the fourth point. There must be clarity about the cabinet more than before the elections in March 2023. Several stakeholders have indicated that they need to know in good time how the elections will take shape in 2023. It is very important for organisations to be able to prepare themselves properly for the formation of good waterboards next March. This preparation consists of the registration of political groups, the making of an election programme, a thorough selection of candidates and thorough information and profiling. In this respect, we can agree with the words of the initiators, who say that if the bill were to be accepted by the Lower House, it could be accepted by the Upper House before the summer. Do not pin me on a date, but that would enable the process I have just outlined. Should that be after the summer, it will have to be right after the summer, otherwise we will really just arrive at a timetable that makes it increasingly impossible to have the law in the Official Journal by 1 December at the latest. And that is the deadline, for example because political parties will be registering for the waterboard elections on 19 December. Finally, Mr President, our final consideration. The cabinet believes that there is currently no question of a situation that is not democratic. It is a recurring point in the discussion that secure seats would not be democratic. I would like to stress that the current situation is also democratic. Several organs have stated that this is the case. For example, the Commission's opinion on water State legislation in 2009 indicated that the seats secured do not conflict with the right to vote and stand as a candidate as provided for in Article 4 of the Constitution. In addition, the Council of State noted in its opinion on the initiative proposal in the past year, 2021, that the current system with secure seats is also a form of democracy, in this case in functional governance. Mr. Chairman. The cabinet took note of the initiative proposal and the opinions issued by third parties. No matter how the board is composed, water boards remain an essential partner. It will remain a challenge for each board, regardless of its composition, to combine comprehensive considerations with practical knowledge and with consideration for all the interests involved. With all this in mind, the cabinet has decided to abstain from an opinion for or against the abolition of secure seats and thus from an opinion on the amendment tabled. It will follow the decision-making process of the two chambers. In any case, it is a good thing that the debate is taking place now. As I said earlier in my speech, timely decision-making by Parliament is necessary, so that the situation is clear at least on time before the elections in 2023. Mr. Chairman. A few more questions have been asked to me, including by Mr Stoffer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-3.u92	I see you're walking forward, Mr. Stoffer. Is it right for the Minister to finish his speech first? Then you'll have the chance.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-3.u93	Mr Stoffer pointed out in the first instance that he thought a democracy of interest was an appropriate form for the waterboards. He asked how I appreciate the two opinions of the Commission on Water State Law from 2009 and 2015 and the opinion of the Boelhouwer Commission from 2020. These are valuable opinions, which, as far as I am concerned, can certainly be involved in the decision-making process. That is why the cabinet has asked for this and they have been offered to the Chamber. That was the ultimate reason for the cabinet, also in view of these opinions, to leave the final choice of whether or not to abolish the secured seats to the Chamber. Mr Sneller and Mrs Maatoug asked both the initiators and me about the turnout in the waterboard elections. Mr De Groot has just mentioned this. We see, of course, that with the equalisation of the water and the elections of the Provincial States, the number of votes cast in the water and water elections has increased. Mr De Groot also referred to the 51.3% turnout rate in 2019. That is a fraction higher than the turnout rate in, for example, the municipal elections two months ago. These turnouts are lower than the turnout at national elections, but they are not immediately special or extremely bad. This is without prejudice to the fact that I, too, would like the turnout rates to be higher. The importance of good water management may play a role in this. That is what we can see from the debate over the last few weeks on drought alone. Of course, this importance is becoming increasingly apparent on the retina of more and more inhabitants of the Netherlands. But I'm also realistic. It is not realistic to assume that the turnout in watership elections will immediately be much higher than the turnout in, for example, municipal elections, even if this is a lot more and a wide range of subjects: youth care, sport, well-being, housing, you name it. We have to acknowledge that. Finally, Mrs Maatoug asked about the debate on the tax system for waterboards. The short but also procedural answer is that I expect to be able to consult a legislative proposal on the proposals made by the Union of Water Councils by the summer. This is already leading to significant steps in relation to the challenges that waterboards face today. I will also inform you about how I will proceed with any remaining issues that are not included in this legislative proposal. I will include the results of the consultation in due course. Mr President, I think I have answered the questions that have been put to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-3.u94	Thank you. I shall now give the floor to Mr Stoffer, SGP, and then to Mr Grinwis.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-3.u95	I find it rather remarkable, given the composition of the cabinet, that the cabinet refrains from adopting a position on this bill. The Christian Union is not for it. The CDA isn't for it, and neither is the VVD. So I think we're seeing here how solid D66 determines what the cabinet line is. But that's not what my question is about. I'm hearing some sis, so I think I'm hitting something somewhere. My question is this. We were just talking about good governance. When I look at the preparation for next year's waterboard elections... In my party, for example, it's common for you to be a member for a year before you get on a list. I'm guessing this, if you want to do it a little carefully, is playing with multiples. The lists are already being made in my party. So maybe farmers, entrepreneurs and people from nature clubs are considering it, thinking that those secured seats will not continue, but if they are not yet members and do not get involved in the candidacy at the moment, it's just not gonna be him anymore. So does the Minister agree with me that it is actually impossible to allow this to happen at the forthcoming elections?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-3.u96	Perhaps a reaction to the first remark. We have not allowed Mr Stoffer's arguments to be taken into account in the cabinet. What we have taken into account is that there is a very different set of opinions, both for and against. There are both many arguments for and many arguments against. For example, we did not receive one advice from the Union of Water Boards, such as: do so, or do not do so. In view of the fact that this is an initiative proposal, it seemed reasonable to us from that point of view to leave the room to the States-General. I have also listened with great interest to the input, both in the first term and in the debate with the authors. Then I think: maybe this is what democracy should be like. Let everyone make a choice about the initiative proposal, knowing that this debate is of course also being held in society, at least as long as I myself am a member of a political party. The advice doesn't come out of the blue either. Then about the election. Let us be clear: the sooner there is clarity, the better it is. At the same time, that is what I am saying from my role as Minister in the cabinet that we are dealing with two realities. One concerns the rules in the entire election organisation, the Kieswet et cetera. It simply proposes a number of deadlines when parties are required to register and when lists of candidates are to be drawn up or submitted. From that perspective, I indicate what is feasible and what is not, and when the law, if it is passed, should appear in the Official Journal at the latest. How candidates are then selected by parties or other groups and how to submit a list of candidates is not ultimately up to the cabinet or the government. That is up to those who decide to run. But that is without prejudice to the fact that parties, groups, can already prepare for the elections and select candidates, whatever the system eventually becomes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-3.u97	Mr Stoffer, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-3.u98	What the Minister says in his last answer is true: they are preparing now. So secure seats are also preparing for this moment. We had earlier the presentation of the accountability report, in which the President of the General Court indicated that you have a real reality and a paper reality. The paper reality is that it could all be. But the practice is that those people from the secured seats, if this bill makes it, simply don't have a chance to get anywhere else on a party list, because they are now working on their own lists. The same goes for the other parties. My party's list is really ready by the summer. Then maybe there'll be some rounding. I'm guessing that's probably what other people are going to be like. So if this bill makes it, in my opinion, none of the people in the secured seats will be in it. So please let's not close our eyes to paper reality. It's not a question, but a call, but let's look at the real reality.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-3.u99	I do not regard this as a question to the cabinet. I regard it more as a set of considerations which I also leave to the States General to include in the choice or not of the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-3.u100	That was a very sensible plea from Mr Stoffer. I have a comment and a question. The comment is about the outcome. What remained outside the consideration of both Mr De Groot and the Minister is that it is linked to the state elections again linked to the First Chamber elections. So we know that in some of the voters the intrinsic motivation to vote sec for one or the other might be influenced by a different motivation, namely the composition of the First Chamber. Perhaps the Minister would like to respond to that. Then my question. Mr Madlener has rightly mentioned the point that still has a discussion to be held in the event of the abolition or retention of secure seats. If they are retained, we need to look again at how secure seats are appointed/chosen. In all the opinions of recent years, it has been mainly idealistic whether they should be preserved and, if so, how or whether they should be abolished. This initiative proposal is again about 0/1, abolishing or retaining. In 2015, the Water Advisory Committee says it sees no reason to change the way in which seats are chosen. But we've been seven years. For example, if the initiative proposal is adopted as amended or if the current situation persists because the legislative proposal is not adopted at all, my question is whether the Minister would like to investigate, before there are elections, how the choice of secure seats works and whether there is reason to change or optimise it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-3.u101	In response to Mr Grinwis' comment, he is absolutely right. It was also chosen to link the watership elections to the electoral date of Provincial States. I can then speculate about what that does, but I do not believe that it has necessarily a lower turnout effect. Perhaps the fact that people get more ballots can increase turnout. With Mr Grinwis, the initiators and many others in the Chamber, I also constantly consider what we can do to increase turnout. I do think that talking a lot about everything that's going on with water in the country will ultimately be the most important motivator. Then there is Mr Grinwis' question. He says that it is always a question of abolishing or not abolishing. With his amendment, he actually indicates the intermediate option himself. Instead of doing another study, it is actually also the choice that lies ahead of the States-General, for example, by clarifying what is expected of the administration and the organisation of the administration by accepting or not accepting the amendment or the legislative proposal. So I would like to return to the neutral position that we are in as a cabinet in this respect, following the decision-making of the States-General on this point. I think that this will ultimately provide the quickest clarity, given that in ten months' time those elections will be and given what we can expect from the establishment of the board.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-3.u102	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the first term of the initiators and the consultant.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-3.u103	I suggest we suspend for 35 minutes for lunch. Then we start immediately with the second term.
