ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-9.u1	We continue with the Amendment of the Public Research Act in connection with current developments in the field of preventive health research, Office 35384. This is the continuation. You will remember the first term of the Chamber. We broke off the treatment back then. A letter from the Minister was then published.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-9.u2	The Minister now has the floor for his contribution to the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-9.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As has already been said, we are continuing today's plenary debate on the amendment of the People's Research Act. I would like to take over the debate on this legislative amendment from former Secretary of State Blokhuis, whom I would like to thank for his excellent work. There's a nice bill. The Chamber debated this once on 9 September last year. Questions asked were answered in writing on 22 December last year. A technical briefing on the bill took place on 15 March this year. I'd like to talk to your room about the bill. Perhaps earlier answers will lead to further questions, which I would of course also like to answer. Amendments have also been tabled. A written appreciation of this has already been given. Mr. Chairman. The current Public Research Act dates back to 1992 and is 30 years old. Much has now been changed and the law is no longer tailored to the current situation. More and more preventive health studies are being offered. I myself have been allowed to contribute in the past to the creation of a population survey of colon cancer. I am committed to prevention and this bill. After all, it is a good thing that people themselves can take more responsibility for their health. This can be done in the form of more attention to lifestyle or in the form of examining the need for help from a healthcare professional. The cabinet stimulates a healthy lifestyle for everyone. That can keep us healthy for longer and can help to prevent disease problems. For some people, the use of preventive health research is a logical part of it. First of all, the population surveys offered by the Empire, namely population surveys on cancer, but also include helprik screening and prenatal screening around pregnancy. In addition, I certainly see a role for preventive health research which is not offered by the government and which people themselves take the initiative. My expectation is that the role that preventive health research can play in having control over one's own health will continue to develop in the near future. That movement has been in motion for the past 30 years. I shall now turn to the questions and give an introduction to each subject. This also brings me back to the questions raised to the Secretary of State yesterday during the debate on medical prevention. The first question is: why should the law be amended? Good preventive health research also includes an adequate legal framework. As has been said, the current legal framework is outdated. The law was originally intended to regulate population surveys offered by the Empire, such as the population survey on breast cancer. At the time of the creation of the current law, the setting was more focused on care and came the offer of the government. There is now a wide range of preventive health research, through a multitude of providers that people can choose from. And that involves all kinds of health tests, from a simple fitness test to a specific scan. The variation is large, just like the number of providers, and the current law is never intended for that and is not equipped for that. With the amendment of the law, we can better protect people against preventive health investigations whose quality is inadequate, because the Health and Youth Inspectorate can better enforce them. The more targeted application of criteria in licensing offers more opportunities for suppliers to apply for a licence, and thus can lead to new offers. This will increase the choice for users of preventive health research. They also receive better information on the basis of professional standards, so that they can make an informed choice of the offer. When we talk about the categories, the core of this legislative proposal is that the safeguards imposed on preventive health research depend on the risks involved in such an investigation. As the risks increase, more stringent requirements apply. This goes from no additional requirements to a licence requirement. And the bill distinguishes three categories for that. The first is the category of research for which we do not impose any additional requirements. This is the case in studies where no risky BIG-registered operations are carried out. General laws and regulations on quality of care do apply to this; think of the Quality, Complaints and Disputes Care Act, and the Medical Treatment Agreement Act. An example of this category is preventive health research based on questionnaires. The second category is research for which a professional standard must be established. If such a standard is missing, a permit is required. One example of this is preventive health tests in which blood is taken. Finally, the third category is research for which a permit is required. In any case, these are research for which ionising radiation is used, and also research into serious untreatable diseases. In that case, the Minister of VWS grants the permit, and the Health Council advises on this. Without authorisation, such an investigation shall be prohibited. A good example to indicate the different categories is the so-called MotherStains Clinic for research into skin cancer. Current legislation covers category three and the law as proposed in category one. Then, Mr. Chairman, on enforcement. In order to achieve a good quality of supply, good enforcement is also needed. And the disadvantage of the current law is that the enforcement possibilities for the IGJ are very limited. We're gonna work this out with the law amendment. The IGJ will have more opportunities to enforce the law, which it can focus on depending on the offence and the type of provider. Because the IGJ's capacity also plays a role in the implementation of the law, it has been extended so that the IGJ can already prepare well and will soon be able to enforce the amended law properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-9.u4	Mr. Chairman. I would also like to come forward because I am not quite clear about the structure of the Minister's speech. He goes through it in high-speed trains, is my impression, but it is not quite clear to me where we are now in the speech. I just want to get back to the beginning. The charm of the law as it is today, the Public Research Act, is that it is quite clear to people that the preventive research being carried out in the context of the population research into cancer, breast cancer and so on, has a demonstrable benefit, and that the Health Council has looked at it carefully and has also said: this is cost-effective, and this is what we, as a society, are getting better when we do this; as a collective, we benefit from this. This is very often not the case, and that is also what the Health Council says about all kinds of other preventive research, for example the body scans or other tests that you can have done. And I would like to ask the Minister why he has chosen to put it all together. Because the risk he is taking now is that confidence in the entire population survey will decrease, because a whole series of non-cost, but money-consuming, studies can then be called in one breath with the important population survey that is being carried out.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-9.u5	I should like to comment on the further steps that I have taken in my speech. I'll tell you what categories and cups we're gonna be coming to. First of all, on what Mr Hijink calls. As I indicated, the population survey was launched 30 years ago. It was organized by the government on the advice of the Health Council. Sometimes it was based on extensive research. A long time ago, the research had a different standard and the research and the results actually came about during the population survey. But that was a long time ago. Meanwhile, in the Netherlands, but also abroad, there are many opportunities for people to use preventive research in one way or another. An analysis done a few years ago, for example by the Nivel, showed that in a given calendar year about 5% of the adult Dutch asked for a preventive test at some point. Those tests, those possibilities, they're not regulated now. So we are trying to create a different framework for a situation which has changed in 30 years and which is now not sufficiently open to establishing quality standards and criteria.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-9.u6	Now the Minister is talking about regulating, but the joke is, of course, that this law is going to make it possible for preventive investigations, such as the total body scan, which should not be done in our country at the moment, to be carried out in our country. It would now be subject to a licence and will no longer be subject to a licence. So the Minister is talking about'regulating' and'setting quality requirements', but this simply means that a scan, which we as a Chamber have said very often that you should not normalize, can suddenly be used in full width because the Minister removes the licence requirement. So where he talks about "standardizing" and "setting rules," he lets go of the rules. As long as the profession has a directive, everyone can simply offer it, but it is not allowed to do so now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-9.u7	I already indicated it in my input. In the case of 5% of Dutch people who use preventive population research in a given year on the basis of their own questions, this practice is already there. That could be anything. The same applies to the supply of body scans, including the Dutch practices. Part of it is exported abroad, but it is simply offered. That's been happening for a long time.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-9.u8	Yes, but that is of course no reason to extend it further and to remove rules and licensing obligations which make it much easier to provide such tests and scans. The Health Council has said that these tests are not cost-effective, that they have no demonstrable added value for public health and that at the same time they ensure that regular care personnel fall away. I mean, who's gonna work there? Those are the caregivers who still work in hospitals or somewhere else, aren't they? Who's gonna do those tests? Those are labs who still work in regular care, aren't they? What I do not understand by this law, therefore, is that this minister, who was just talking about combating ineffective care, about appropriate care, about the right care in the right place... Every debate we hear this kind of thing. But here we have a bill that is not going to regulate all kinds of non-effective or unproven effective preventive research, but is going to make it easier. On the contrary, it encourages many more companies to offer that kind of care in our country. So you shouldn't want that if you're against ineffective care.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-9.u9	Mr Hijink raises a number of questions in one question, first with regard to the opinions of the Health Council. The Health Council focuses on the use of preventive research in the context of population research: should we offer a very specific category of person a public investigation preventively? This is different from the fact that an individual asks for a specific test with the general practitioner or in another setting. In part, that's possible even at the pharmacy. This is how it is regularly offered. It can be at the pharmacy, at the drugstore. It can also be done with specific prevention clinics, which also exist in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-9.u10	The Minister is continuing.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-9.u11	Mr. Chairman. I'll just name the other categories. I would like to comment on side-effects and the relationship with regular care. Finally, I have a number of questions arising from the committee debate on medical prevention. Careful handling of side-effects requires attention within the entire care. The bill is linked to the handling of side-effects in regular care. It would be illogical for preventive health research to take a different line on side-effects than in regular care. That is why I would like to go back to the still up-to-date advice of the 2014 Health Council on side-effects in diagnostics in patient care. With this opinion, the Health Council has outlined an ethical and legal framework and made recommendations to doctors, their professional organisations, patient organisations and government, in order to ensure careful handling of side-effects. Parties have actually taken the advice of the Health Council. For example, I have seen that in large cohort studies in the Netherlands good protocols have been developed for dealing with side findings. I see a clear parallel here with preventive health research. Both are research into people who, in principle, are healthy and do not suffer from complaints. Mr. Chairman. Then I'd like to move on to the relationship with regular care.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-9.u12	It's going at a fast pace. I'd like to comment on the cousins. I have two questions about that. Of course, caregivers should now also be able to judge whether or not to share ancillary findings. There's a lack of conscience for that. But we also have commercial providers. On what basis can we now ensure that commercial suppliers can also make this assessment in a fair manner? What guarantees does the Minister see for this?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-9.u13	Thanks for the question. That too is something that the inspection can monitor, for example. The execution of research should focus on... I'll just refer to the opinion of the Health Council of 2014. As I have said, I think that is still very topical. There are a number of categories. For example, there is a category of secondary findings, findings that do not arise from anything the primary study aims at, but which are directly relevant to a person and are also an indication of a treatable condition. The general teneur is also the advice of the Health Council in this kind of case, unless a person at the front has said that he does not want to be informed about it. Then there is a category in which the importance of the co-finding is unclear. The advice of the Health Council is to be very cautious with the notification. And then there is a category where there are indications of the presence of a more or less severe but untreatable condition. The Health Council advises on this in an ethical and legal framework to be very reluctant to report it. Depending on the type of research, there must be such a framework underneath. An inspection can monitor this, regardless of where or by whom the preventive investigation is offered.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-9.u14	A follow-up question, Mr. Chairman. So you are actually saying that the inspection should have a review framework in order to be able to enforce improper use? That was really the point in my contribution last time: that there should be no improper use, for example, by circumventing the licensing obligation. How can we maintain?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-9.u15	Yes. That enforcement can be done by the inspection. I don't think so. For example, one of the indications "s' mentioned in the reply, but also mentioned in your previous contribution, may be that research is used to report as a side-effects on diseases subject to specific population research. That is precisely what you want to avoid, because that can affect participation in the population survey, which with its method is often more specific to the detection or exclusion of that particular condition.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-9.u16	I have another question about these side-effects, including the people who are following the debate. So it's about... you get a total body scan done. You want to know specifically what's going on with your lungs or your liver, so you say, make a nice scan of that. Then the scan is done and the doctor or the person who made the scan says: well, that looks fine. But on that same scan you can see something in your bowels, to name but a few, which is not specifically asked for, but what might be seen in that photo or that scan. My question is: to what extent is the Minister's solution not merely hypothetical and theoretical? You have a scan done; in what situation wouldn't a doctor or other healthcare professional tell you what is on the photo or the scan?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-9.u17	This has been the subject of extensive research in the past. I refer again to the report of the Health Council. There will undoubtedly be more recent investigations in the meantime. I didn't do a new survey of literature, but I took another look at that advice from the Health Council. For the example you mention, we can look at large investigations into, for example, doing a scan of the abdomen. Then, depending on the age category of the persons concerned, parallel findings are made up to a few dozen percent of people. This has been handled in a prudent way for a long time, both in regular patient care and in the cohort studies I am talking about. So there has been an existing framework for a long time that is already being applied in all kinds of places. This means that not every finding is reported. I have just mentioned a number of categories. Some of the findings are reported, some of the findings are not. That also depends on what an individual indicates himself.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-9.u18	The problem we are about to face is that we have commercial providers who are also promoting it. They're advertising for that: make an appetizer of your body. So what's the purpose of the investigation? A complete test of everything. So to what extent can you still speak of a coincidence if the purpose of the investigation is everything, from top to bottom? Then how can you speak of cousins when the whole body is scanned, or the whole torso? So every place that is found fits within the scope of the investigation. So how can you say it's a coincidence when it's actually said in the PR: do an app for your whole body?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-9.u19	I think that it is in the wording towards an individual who is considering such an investigation. I shall stick to that example of the scan first of all about the correct formulation and the correct reporting. I am sure Mr Hijink agrees with that. A complete scan of everything, a total apk of your entire body doesn't exist. There's no such test. I don't mean to paraphrase you, but there's no such test. A check in which you then say "now everything is good" does not exist and is also not clear that it will exist between now and the foreseeable future. You do targeted research and that also helps to indicate what we can do with a specific test and what we can't. I can stay with the examples of such a scan of a belly. You mentioned the example you wanted to know about your liver. You can do an examination of whether or not there is a liver fattyation when you scan the abdomen. That's possible, but with the same scan also knowing if there's inflammation in the intestine can't be. A total body scan you see everything about is impossible.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-9.u20	That may be true, but that is of course what these companies have been promoting for years. And that is exactly on the one hand advertising that they are doing and on the other hand, of course, fear that they are scaring people: you do well to go through the scan every once in a while, then we can at least rule out that you will fall dead tomorrow. That's not true, but of course that's how advertising works. I would like to stick to my fundamental point that it is very strange that, where we are trying on the one hand to avoid nonsense medical research and medical procedures, this bill opens the door to this type of investigation. Apart from the side effects, it is, of course, very strange that this minister, who is trying to reduce the cost of care on the one hand, is now coming to the Chamber with a proposal that will make it possible to have an MRI scanner on every street corner that you can be chased through for a lot of money. I just don't understand where that comes from, from a cabinet that says it wants to guard against too high a cost of care.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-9.u21	Mr President, I will not repeat myself with the same answer. Two things. One is precisely the point that Mr Hijink points out in relation to control and control of what exactly is the communication about a particular test that is offered. We don't have enough opportunities to do anything with that right now. As far as this law is concerned, the aim is to achieve better regulation and better supervision by the inspection. That's one. The second thing that test now aims to do after 30 years is simply to take a step to where it has just grown in 30 years, from the initial population survey to current practice, in the Netherlands but also abroad. With that we can ask: will there be an MRI scanner at the corner of every street? I don't expect that. But I do see that there is now also in the Netherlands the possibility for people to look for possibilities to have such a scan done, and we have little opportunity to do anything with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-9.u22	Mr. Hijink, very briefly, because this is your fourth time.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-9.u23	Yes. You know, Mr. President, this is quite a far-reaching bill. We talked about this six months ago, and that debate did not end prematurely for nothing. It is intensely complicated and the Secretary of State was actually unable to answer properly at that time. That was the whole Chamber's assessment at the time. It is legislation and I am committed to giving us the opportunity to discuss it in a good and careful way. The license requirement goes off for those kind of body scans. It will not be allowed to do so now, as long as the providers have a professional directive, which is included in the Register of the Healthcare Institute. That directive is already there, but the joke is that many doctors' associations, the KNMG, but also the Dutch Association for Radiology, the umbrella organisation Doctors Society + Health, the Dutch Association for Medical Microbiology, the Dutch Association for Cardiology, have all deducted their hands from the directive that has now been submitted to the Zorginstituut. They say we don't want anything to do with this. And who has taken over this directive at the Healthcare Institute? The umbrella association for providers of exactly those commercial preventive investigations. They are now in the process of drafting their own directive and they are going to determine, on the basis of their own directive, that they are delivering very good quality, because they have written that directive themselves. Surely it is a bizarre situation that we should allow the sector itself, which has a commercial gain in this respect, to adopt the directive? The licensing obligation disappears and instead a directive has been written by the sector itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-9.u24	Firstly, I have mentioned that there are three different categories. The licence requirement does not disappear altogether. It remains for specific categories. I'd like to clear that up for you. It remains for some categories. And there are also specific demands and conditions for the others and an opportunity to monitor them, while at present this is not sufficiently possible. It is therefore not sufficiently possible to steer towards an existing practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-9.u25	It's really short. This is the fifth interruption, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-9.u26	But this is factually incorrect. Offering that total body scan is now prohibited unless you get a license, and they don't get that license. That is what I think is written in the answer. And why don't they get that license? Because the offer is not cost-effective and does not contribute to collective public health. That's why they don't get that license. Soon they won't have to have that permit, because they can comply with the directives they have set themselves. And that, in my view, is the crux of this debate: the door is open to those forms of research which are not prohibited for nothing.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-9.u27	That permit is one situation, but the practice is another. Dutch citizens undergo these kinds of scans. They also go across the border, abroad. That's the situation. You aim to regulate that and look for something where we can do more than what the current Public Research Act offers. It originated at a time when all of this couldn't and didn't exist and you couldn't go abroad either. One only did things that were really offered by the government on the basis of an opinion from the Health Council, and then focused on cancer. The current practice is different.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-9.u28	Mr Hijink is, of course, at the heart of the matter. I think that few people in this Chamber think that there should be no new law if a law is outdated. But here, of course, the question is whether you are going in the right direction with that law. I think it is special that the Minister says that we should regulate it and at the same time open the door to commercial providers. This, of course, creates a dilemma between the public interest and its own, commercial interest. And then at that point of the cousins. In the reply I read that there is a very practical reason to say that these side-effects should not be reported. At the same time, of course, there is an ethical question. Can you, as a health care professional, keep away from diseases that you find, and which, in some cases, you may not know for sure what exactly you find? And isn't this also affected by the commercial interest that commercial providers have? Of course, they only benefit from reporting, so that there can be a follow-up investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-9.u29	As far as those providers are concerned, the criteria already apply in clinical practice, i.e. in health care, but also in the cohort studies I refer to. That's why that advice from the Health Council was so important at the time. It's really often a trade-off. I know that in the cohort studies there are very careful protocols that keep you in the dark or need to be adjusted. Then the criteria of doing and not harming and the autonomy of a client apply. That means you report cases and you don't report cases. That applies, first of all, in clinical practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-9.u30	If there is also a commercial interest in it, many of those providers have that, they have a very clear commercial interest and have to keep their heads above water............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... I gave a very concrete example in my first term. Suppose you had a pretecho made and a fetus disease detected. I asked if this bill forbids reporting such cases, and when is it and when is it not?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-9.u31	Even now, the same framework of the Health Council applies. Even now, pretechos are dependent on the consequences. In blood tests, but you can also look at a visual examination, his side effects are abnormalities of the norm. Without wanting to make it technical, the standard has been made for many cases by carrying out a particular study frequently in a population without any complaints, without a specific disease. Then you look at the 95% bandwidth of something normal. If you set a normal haemoglobin level or a normal blood sugar or a normal thing if you set a standard, you always have 2.5% below a bandwidth of 95% and 2.5% above that. Well, that's a coincidence, then. You will undoubtedly know from your own environment that if a GP has a blood test done, there is a chance that with 20 provisions he makes, there is one that is on the high side or on the low side. That is very real in practice. In practice, you look at the relationship with the complaints that a client has or the question what a client comes for. Then you inform on the potential consequences. That's the frame.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-9.u32	Of course, medical science doesn't sit still. When the current law was introduced in '92, many types of cancer were still untreatable and incurable. Luckily, that's not the case anymore. In my input I mentioned Alzheimer's, and I hoped with all my heart that science would get a breakthrough in that. But if we adopt this law now, can the Minister explain how this law stands in the way or provides for the medical development in which a disease goes from incurable to treatable?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-9.u33	At the moment, Alzheimer's is untreatable. It may be that a client specifically asks for it. This can now occur in clinical settings when people have something in their family. Then you specifically ask for it, and then a test or a scan or anything else can give any indication of a possible risk. But in the general setting this is a potentially serious finding that does not require clinical intervention for the time being, but in which you do charge a person with information about a possible risk. Let me give you such an example from existing cohort studies. As you know, there are several cohort studies in the Netherlands in which groups of adult people have been subject to long-term studies for almost 40 years in a single case. In some of these studies, people get or have had brain scans at some point. Then, in the context of that normal, you can, for example, look at the extent of the fluid spaces in the brain, in medical terms, the ventricles. There are fluid spaces in the brain tissue. Those fluid chambers have a normal value, and if they're just a little too big, that could be an indication that brain tissue is being lost and there's too much fluid. It may be an indication of a future risk of dementia. In this type of cohort study, it is generally expressly agreed that you do not share that information, unless an individual says: I want to know everything. But then you are very reluctant about that, because at that time there is no indication at all, because you are not sure if that is going to be bigger or different. So you're actually a little empty-handed and doing some kind of observation. Sorry for the technical answer, but I think this illustrates it in response to your justified question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-9.u34	I think I'm gonna go over some of this college and get it right.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-9.u35	I'm sorry, but it might help.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-9.u36	Yes. In our health care system, the GP has an important function as gatekeeper. The Minister indicated with his 5% that there would be a bigger call from people who want to find things themselves. I found the example mentioned by the Minister with those parallel findings to illustrate it. Is the Minister not afraid that, where you are now setting up the general practitioner and where he gives the medical indication to have such a prevention study carried out, the pressure on that general practitioner, if there is a secondary finding, is much more likely to result in care being given in the second line because there is a secondary finding? While otherwise the general practitioner probably gives a very great reassurance if those values even deviate a bit. Does the Minister see that danger?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-9.u37	I can absolutely see that danger. A few comments on that. In the past, however, I am not talking about the population surveys on cancer....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Luckily, that's not so bad. But the risk is in it. I see it, with an amendment of the law, as an opportunity for the general practitioner, or any other healthcare professional, to provide even more targeted information on the pros and cons of a possible investigation. It has to be through those who test, who offer those possibilities. It's just a risk. That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-9.u38	I also tried to read the answers very well. I see that at some point there is an answer: if preventive investigations take a very large flight, in the first instance the Minister proclaims the great advantages of this, then we have a safety net clause to undo that. It's probably just me, but then there's some kind of short circuit coming to me. We find a lot of health gains in people, but that is apparently going to lead to a lot of concern in that second line. And what does the Minister say? Then we use a safety net clause so that it can no longer be used. Am I reading that wrong?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-9.u39	What the safety net provision determines are the conditions under which and with which information about this type of research can and may be offered, and is also carried out. Regarding the execution: the chance for each of us is real that at any time we have a conversation with our GP about whether or not to do a particular test. Isn't such a test wise for once? I have all these complaints, there's nothing wrong with me, but isn't it wise to have my cholesterol pricked for once? Or with men my age to have the prostate tested through the blood? I myself know from experience and appreciate it very much that my GP comes out with the pros and cons, with why you do or do not do it and what are possibly the uncertainties in the interpretation. It's obvious it's happening.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-9.u40	My last interruption, Mr. Chairman. In the way we have arranged it now, the Minister's example is something we like and like. You put the GP in a position. Our fear is that scans can be followed without medical indication, that the pressure of the findings lies with the general practitioner and that this leads to an enormous influx into second-line care. I have not been able to find in the legislative proposal and in the reply that the Minister states: you do not have to have that concern. That's what I want to be convinced of. I don't want to have a safety net clause on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-9.u41	I'm just looking. I'm also looking at Mr. Hijink, following the discussion we just had. I was positively triggered by Mr Hijink in terms of the apk, or the control of everything. We realize that is not possible. In case you're doing a specific investigation, whether that's a visual investigation or something else, we need to find a way to properly define the conditions you're looking for and what an investigation can or can't prove, and what it's specifically aimed at. That must be very clear. In the current situation, it is widely used and is not controlled.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-9.u42	Some of my colleagues' questions are about the pressure on care. My picture is that, when an increasingly serious condition is found at a later stage, the pressure on care is also greater later. It takes longer for people to recover. They're less fit, so the recovery takes longer anyway. If we can find diseases sooner and be able to treat them earlier, I believe that this could put a little more pressure on the front, but in the longer term it could be a relief for care. I don't see that much in the discussion. I was wondering whether the Minister would be able to respond from this point of view to the question of what pressure will arise on care in the longer term if we can identify it early.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-9.u43	We have quite rightly already talked about the potential upward pressure on care. There's a preemptive investigation under way. Someone's asking for something. This leads to a finding and leads to a follow-up question, but in the care. That is a point of attention, as has just been discussed. Quite rightly, that is the other way around. If you detect things earlier, they are often easier, with fewer interventions, with less care and also longer preventive address and treatment. Some of the existing population surveys and a range of other studies have already focused on this. If I may give you a random example: cardiovascular diseases are still a very common cause of long-term care demand, of disease and also of death. Where death was mainly due to acute heart attacks up to a number of years ago, most of the need for care is now in the case of long-term heart failure and long-term cardiac arrhythmias, or recurrent cardiac arrhythmias. A lot of people actually have few complaints about that, but the moment you detect some of those people early, they are very easily treatable. You'll get worse with that. So that is an example of what can be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-9.u44	Thank you for this answer and thank you for this example with regard to cardiac arrhythmias. If I have read the proposal correctly, we are proposing an extension within the framework we already have for population research and prevention. But to what extent is there room for the use of wearables, especially when it comes to cardiac arrhythmias, for the signaling that something is wrong? This is a kind of smart care that is still in its infancy but is perhaps going to play a very important role in the long term, precisely to relieve the burden on general practitioners. You then have something on your wrist that can give a signal or help detect diseases. Is there room in this bill to add that later? Or does the Minister already have ambitions for this?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-9.u45	This bill does not focus on the use of a wearable self. That's a technique, but the bill doesn't focus on the wearable itself. However, it focuses on the situation in which the use of a wearable can lead to an additional opinion and a specific intervention. Then the use of that wearable is also aimed at that possible investigation. That's what this bill focuses on. So can you add that? Yeah, you can.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-9.u46	Mr. Hijink, and then we'll move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-9.u47	To pierce the balloon about higher or lower care costs immediately, I have a comment. The Health Council was quite clear about it in 2015. He said: "In the case of health checks, there will be no health gains at population level. Screening with health checks will therefore not be cost-effective, let alone leading to cost savings. The introduction of the new technology, and even the availability of the technology, drives healthcare spending." Well, that's a warning that should appeal to the VVD, I'd like to say. My question is very specific. With the directive already in place for preventive research, which is in the Register of the Health Institute, is it possible for providers of, for example, totalbodyscans to start work directly in the Netherlands if this law is passed? That's actually my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-9.u48	Without wanting to blow up the balloon again, here's what I'm saying. The crucial words in Mr Hijink's quote are "at population level." Those are the two crucial words. The Health Council is absolutely right about that. So that focuses on population surveys and on "at population level," to an entire group, for example to all people 50 years of age and older, wide offering of something. This proposal focuses on the individual level. That's the crucial difference. Then on your other question. I co-wrote, but I miss half of it. Let me come back to that in second place, if that's all right with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-9.u49	I like the fact that the Minister keeps bringing up other diseases. So we go through the whole human body a little bit. It's actually a kind of full body scan in terms of medical science and the human body. You're gonna learn something on a day like this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-9.u50	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll think about what we haven't had, but we've already had a few things. Then the relationship with regular care. We have just made a number of points. I see here a separate cup for the relationship with the general practitioner. Actually, I've been over all that. This brings me to the questions that were put to the Secretary of State yesterday during the committee debate on medical prevention. First of all, it was about the increased use of the self-take test in the population survey on cervical cancer. The Health Council recommended this last October. The former Secretary of State responded to this opinion at the end of last year: we are going to use the self-take test more widely. RIVM has shown what the possibilities are for doing this and what its consequences are. At the moment, regular calls for tenders for the population survey on cervical cancer are running, which will show how the increased use of the self-collection test can take shape. At the end of this year, these invitations to tender have been completed and I will inform your Chamber. I wanted to confirm this in writing in accordance with the Secretary of State's promise yesterday, but perhaps this explanation will suffice. Mr. Chairman. In addition, questions were asked about my letter from yesterday about a supplement to the population survey on breast cancer with MRI or CEM, Contrast Enhanced Mammography, as it is called beautifully. Let me start by saying that I think it is important to also offer women with very dense breast tissue a good population survey. I feel urgent about this. The question has been asked why no additional abbreviated MRI is offered to this target group. In my letter I explain that there is no financial cover for this and that there is insufficient certainty as to whether there is sufficient capacity. In addition, the Health Council has previously advised not to offer an MRI, but first to design a pilot population study CEM. An MRI also has disadvantages, such as many fault-positive results, overdiagnosis and limited future resistance. All in all, I do not think it is effective to offer MRI screening at this time and I am committed to a pilot population study CEM, in accordance with the advice of the Health Council. ZonMw has previously published a grant call for this, but no researchers have registered for it. I'm looking into whether the grant call needs to be changed, so researchers can register. I promised your room I'd get back to you at the beginning of 2023. I'll see if I can do this sooner, next fall. Finally, questions have been asked about reducing the screening interval as soon as possible in the population survey breast cancer to two years. A letter to your room for the summer recess will follow. That's where the maximum is being done. RIVM and Population Research Netherlands recruit and train people as quickly as possible, as well as optimizing logistics wherever possible. The screening interval is now approximately 32 months, which is decreasing. It is expected that it will take some time before the full width of the weather can take place once every two years. But I can tell you that I have already had two meetings with the RIVM to see how this can be accelerated as much as possible. Mr President, so much for my text. As has already been said, I agreed with you that the amendments were already appreciated.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-9.u51	Good. Mrs. Van der Laan. Short and pointy, then we can go to the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-9.u52	Yes! I have another question about the Health Council. In the current legal text, the obligation to seek advice from the Health Council lapses. The explanatory statement states that it is customary for the Health Council to be consulted before a public investigation of the state is offered and carried out. Now our institutions are under pressure and I think the Health Council is a very important instrument. I would like to ask the Minister if he will promise that the Health Council will remain involved in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-9.u53	Yes. The answer to that is yes. As you know, the Health Council has so far been involved in population research twice, first on the front for a pilot population survey and then again later on, as a result of the pilot population survey and an execution test. Whether we can do this in another way is therefore also the subject of discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-9.u54	I have two more questions open from the first term. The first question concerns the gap between rich and poor. It is very likely that especially people who do have a piggy bank can do that scan, for which they also pay for themselves. As I said in my first term, this may not lead to a major health difference between rich and poor. After all, we already know that there is a health difference. We already know that people who have money to spend live healthier and live longer. But doesn't this bill make that gap even bigger?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-9.u55	I share Mrs Westerveld's view that we must look at this issue and continue to look at it. So far, the use of such a total body scan, with all the costs attached to it, and these costs are very high, actually very occasionally, in proportion. That will not increase the health difference, wide, But overall it makes sense to continue to investigate this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-9.u56	Short, finalizing.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-9.u57	But the idea is that that door is being opened and that more of these kinds of investigations are going to take place. Then it is very likely that these are people who can pay for it, and it is very likely that this gap, that the health gap between rich and poor will become much greater with the introduction of this proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-9.u58	To really increase health differences at population level, you have to have very large numbers of people who would have such research done. I do not see that happening for the time being, but as indicated, this is really something to keep a closer eye on.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-9.u59	Fine. Very briefly, Mrs Westerveld. Oh, you don't have to do that anymore. Then we'll go to Mr. Hijink.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-9.u60	The Minister is getting rid of it very easily now. The Health Council itself also warns of these growing health inequalities, precisely by introducing such measures. If people who have a lot of money can do this kind of scans, you can say: they pay for it themselves. Yes, but the follow-up costs are of course made in the regular care. Eventually more use of this kind of preventive care, such as those body scans, can lead to waiting lists or longer waiting times for people who cannot afford such a scan, says the Health Council. In that sense, it does indeed widen the gap.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-9.u61	This could be done at a time when they are being used very widely and there are also very broad follow-up opinions. Then we come to cousins et cetera. As I just said, let's steer the target bets. That's one. Two. We keep talking about body scans, but a very large part of the preventive investigation that is happening now is not about these very expensive scans. It involves a multitude of all kinds of tests via pharmacies and so on, which also differ in price. So they also have a different commitment and can sometimes be widely used for other groups and very useful.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-9.u62	Mrs. Westerveld again. I just heard you, didn't I?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-9.u63	This is another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-9.u64	This is another question. I want to go to the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-9.u65	It's possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-9.u66	Yeah? So much for the first term. Thanks to the Minister. We're going to the second term. The first speaker is Mrs Westerveld from the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-9.u67	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I think this is an extremely complicated bill, not only because it is technically very complicated, but also because there are quite a few fundamental questions about this proposal. We have already appointed it in the first term. In fact, there were quite critical contributions from various parliamentary groups. There are also quite a lot of amendments that change this bill. My objections are on a number of points. The first, which I have just mentioned, is whether this proposal does not widen the gap between rich and poor. We know that people who spend money live on average for a year or seven longer and live in good health for a year or fifteen longer. We know these are the people who can pay for this kind of research. We also know that this bill is likely to open the door to many more commercial providers. Then I think it is very logical that the gap should be widened. We shouldn't want that. On the contrary, we need to reduce health inequalities in the Netherlands. The second objection is the following. We know there's not enough care staff. There are already large deficits in healthcare everywhere. We also know that the people who are going to do this kind of research, who may be pulled away by commercial companies, are exactly the care workers we need in hospitals and in laboratories. It seems to me to be a very undesirable development that we put pressure on the regular care and the public task for all of us, and that commercial organisations will then get along with this. Another objection is how we're gonna organize this. That's what's in the license. That's what it is that I'm wondering whether we're regulating this properly or whether it's opening the door to a lot of new suppliers who are going to make a lot of money and who will undoubtedly have the best intentions, but who are also trying to make a profit from it. Then I have one more question, Mr President. It's about inspection capacity. The Minister has just said in his replies that the inspection will be better able to maintain and monitor this, but I really think I have read that there will be no more capacity. How can an inspection be better maintained if it is already under pressure and if there is not going to be more capacity? Mr. Chairman. We therefore have reservations about this proposal. We're about to listen to the Minister's answers. Then we in our group will have a discussion on whether we can support it or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-9.u68	Thank you. Then Mr. Heerema of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-9.u69	Mr President, thank you. Thank you for the answers. Part of it has become clearer and part of it I have to think more deeply about. The first term has been done by my colleague Thom van Campen. In the transfer of this dossier, he put this bill on top of the pile with some information: "The first term has been somewhat chaotic. We expect a first term to come from the cabinet, with some questions to be asked." That has become a reality today. A reasonable number of amendments to this bill have been tabled. I really need to have a moment to sum up everything that has been said by the cabinet in the first term and in the second term by the Chamber, together with the amendments. That is why I am asking for this bill not to be voted on next Tuesday, but in the following week, so that we have enough time to prepare it properly. It is, as Mr Hijink also says, a difficult legal process. We must have sufficient time to ask questions, but also to be able to organize our thoughts.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-9.u70	That's an order proposal. I would like to see whether there is any objection that we should do the vote another time, not this Tuesday but another time, namely the Tuesday after.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-9.u71	The next Tuesday is my proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-9.u72	All Members agree, so we'll be voting on it in about ten days.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-9.u73	The focus of the VVD is on how the quality of the studies is controlled and assessed, where the assurance is located and whether there is good care, guidance and treatment of people. We got some answers. We're gonna put it next to the law we read. I think that when we vote on the law, we will come back with whether we agree or not. We still have to make our decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-9.u74	Very good. Mr. Hijink of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-9.u75	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I think it has become clear from the questions that the SP is not very much in favour of this law. I also want to explain why that is. The Minister referred earlier to the question of regulating what is not yet controlled and regulated. But we see exactly the opposite, because at the moment we still have a licence requirement, for example in the case of cancer research, such as in the case of the total body scan using an MRI. There is a licence requirement. I'm just gonna get rid of the license. I'm not calling that regulating, I'm deregulating. This means that the sector itself, in its own directives, will determine what care should be like. Those guidelines are already available at the Healthcare Institute. It also opens the door to all those providers, those commercial providers. I really want to warn you about that. We shouldn't want those commercial providers in our country. The Minister can say: yes, but it is happening abroad now? We have nothing to do with that, of course. If people go to Germany or another country for a scan, doesn't that mean we have to offer it ourselves? 'Cause somebody's gonna have to pay for that eventually. And someone's gonna have to pay the follow-up after a scan is done. I also find it significant that professionals, important professions such as cardiologists, and also microbiologists and radiologists, have said: we want nothing to do with this directive anymore. The KNMG has also withdrawn. Why? Because that is where they say that the sector is barely sticking to it and is primarily looking for commercial profit. People just want to make money. That's the big risk we're going to run with this law. We run the risk of opening the door to commercial research and that society will ultimately pay the price for it. I think that Mrs Westerveld has also rightly pointed to the issue of health differences, the growing health differences. Those differences are going to increase with this bill. That's what the Health Council is warning you about. Why are these differences getting bigger? Because you make access to preventive research easier for the people who can afford it. And what happens when you've had an investigation done and something's found? Then you're gonna call for follow-up. Then you go to the doctor, then you go to the specialist and you end up in the hospital. And so the appeal to the care, to which we all contribute, will only become greater. That happens, while at the same time this cabinet and previous cabinets have been busy cutting back on care. Then who wins and who loses? In the end, therefore, the gap is only widening. The capacity of the IGJ is also a valid point. We have always said that if the inspection is to have additional tasks, it must also have additional capacity. So I ask the Minister: why isn't he coming? Of course, the question is also interesting as to how the inspection should be maintained and monitored if we only have directives drawn up by the industry itself. So these are the directives from which important professions have withdrawn from. All in all, my group is not at all happy with the withdrawal of this licence requirement. We think it is very important because it also has an important role to play in preventing 'insanity of care'. I was never like that for such terms as "insane care" or "the right care in the right place." Of those marketing slogans from the Ministry, we never had a very high regard. But I would just like to mention it here: no nonsense of care, no ineffective care. If that is really the government's position, then it should not choose to take in all kinds of commercial research, with very large risks at very high follow-up costs. So you're only concerned with ineffective and nonsensical care. So, Mr President, we will not vote for this law. We would have preferred public research to be improved, and there would have been a different arrangement to solve cases in a different way if there were risks, for example in the case of preventive investigations. We do not think this is a good way forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-9.u76	Very good. Thank you. Mrs Van der Laan of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-9.u77	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for replying. I do feel and share the inconvenience of this law, although I do agree that the current law should be reviewed. It's not like this isn't already happening in practice. We are trying to regulate the practice of preventive health investigations. In doing so, I try not to make too much of a distinction between commercial and non-commercial providers. In that sense, I am open to it. But I am trying to strike a balance between, on the one hand, the sector itself, self-regulation and professional standards, and, on the other hand, the client's right to privacy and information. That dilemma is part of this law. I have tabled, among other things, an amendment to that effect. The amendment in part No. 17 is about that total ban on secondary findings versus the right to information. Well, I've had six months to study on the answer. I asked you again. I will withdraw that amendment. It may be fine for a second, but I shall vote in favour of this amendment. 17 withdraw. I've expressed my doubts. In the end, I believe that this is the right way forward, as proposed by the bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-9.u78	The Van der Laan amendment (Doc. 17) has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-9.u79	Of course, I am maintaining the other amendment because I am really talking about providing information to the client. I want nothing more or less than that you... sorry. I want nothing more or less than that the Minister has a certain handle, a power in the law to respond to a changing situation, for example, when a disease changes or when he sees that commercial providers are taking a flight. That is why I maintain that amendment. Mr. Chairman. All in all, it's a complicated law. It's been a few months, but I think it's been done very carefully today.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-9.u80	A question from Mr Hijink.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-9.u81	I have a more fundamental point. Is this law, by dropping the licence requirement for important parts of research, regulating or deregulating D66?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-9.u82	I think you regulate to some extent. This law proposes regulation. It's a field that's moving, so in that sense, I can see you're actually regulating. If you're asking me if letting go of certain permits is deregulation, I'd say yes. In addition to that, I think it is very good, as you yourself mentioned in your contribution that the sector itself will adopt its own directives. I think that's very good, because I don't want to sit in the chair of the professional. Whether you're commercial or not, you're a registered professional. I therefore believe that the sector itself should be allowed to deal with the professional standard.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-9.u83	The question is, of course, when a sector draws up its own directives. In a nursing home you can say that everyone talks about what is good quality: the elderly, the client organisations, employers, employees, staff. Of course, it's a difference whether you have a commercial interest in the healthcare offer you do. This is a particularly commercial offer, for example when it comes to body scans. That's very commercial. That makes a lot of money, especially if they come to the Netherlands a lot more later. If you let such a sector largely decide for itself what that form of good care should look like, do you take very big risks, not only with access to care, but also with the affordability of care?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-9.u84	I do not entirely share the fact that we are taking very serious risks. What I do share with you is, at least, the inconvenience that certain organizations have dropped out. You mentioned them, too. An example of this is the Association for Radiology. My question, through the President, to the Minister, is once again what he can do to involve the abandoned organisations once again, because I share the inconvenience that they are not part of it and have distanced themselves from the directive. But I do not share with you the "butcher approves his own meat" principle. I don't want to share that with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-9.u85	Share with Mr. Hijink.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-9.u86	Oh, yeah... it's all so formal!
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-9.u87	Yes. It's Lower House, isn't it? The last speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mr Slootweg of the CDA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-9.u88	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is indeed a complicated law. Mr. Chairman. According to Victor Lamme, professor of cognitive neuroscience at the UvA, the three main motivations of people are fear, greed and herd behaviour. The consequences of greed have been seen in the legislation on online gambling. We do not want fear to become a driving force in this law. For the CDA, good, affordable care is a basic right for everyone with a system of mutual solidarity. For us, this means sensible care, with the patient at the forefront. No wrong financial incentives and production targets, because the latter only lead to unnecessary treatments. If we look at this law and an opinion from, for example, the Health and Society Council, we cannot reconcile a number of things. Because what does the Health & Society Council say? There is a growing division, which makes it easier for wealthy people to buy care services than less well-equipped people. Moreover, because of more attractive working conditions, it will result in professionals choosing these commercial agencies and then being less employable for regular care. There is also a risk that the legal protection and working conditions of workers will deteriorate, that exploitation will develop and that we will grow into an unhealthy market. The CDA assesses the legislative changes along the criteria to ensure that costs do not increase and that the benefits of the law will also be mutually supportive and accessible and reach the population. And that is why we consider the role of this general practitioner as gatekeeper to be so important, and we really feel that it undermines that function rather than strengthens it. We've asked a lot of critical questions. And the Minister has answered a number of them, but what we have still not heard is whether the Minister has analysed the number of commercial preventive investigations, such as health scans and body scans. And where does the Minister base it on the fact that the use of preventive investigations has no significant impact on the overall cost of care? We also wonder what the Minister's confidence in this commercial sector is in achieving the self-regulatory capacity to achieve a good quality directive and supervision. We asked that question in the first place, and we did not have an answer. And I must say that, since we have seen Mr Hijink, he has also pointed out that, for example, the radiologists do not even leave, which does not strengthen our feeling that doctors really want to be involved in this. It is precisely because good profits can be made in this sector that we think it is real that people are going to opt for commercial agencies that carry out this preventive health research. Does the Minister consider that the Health and Society Council is wrong, or does the Minister not think that a large market is going to emerge here? And finally, Mr President. Yesterday we also discussed preventive health research. In the letters of 4 March and 21 September, the then Secretary of State indicated that there are now too few screening laboratories. The result: instead of a population survey on breast cancer every 24 months, this takes place once every 32 months. Has the Minister made an analysis of the demand and supply of the number of screening laboratories as a result of this legislative amendment? And if so, what is the outcome of that, and does he want to share it? The answers to the questions we have asked have not removed our concerns after the first deadline. The CDA believes in prevention, but prevention that benefits everyone; prevention that reduces health differences rather than increases them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-9.u89	Thank you. This was the second term of the Chamber. I'm gonna suspend until 4:05, and then we're gonna listen to the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-9.u90	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-9.u91	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to answer a question from Mrs Westerveld: what are the ethical considerations surrounding the reporting of side-effects? The policy we lay down in the bill on side-findings is based on the principles of well-being, non-damaging and autonomy of a client. This is also true in regular care. These are principles that the doctor must consider when deciding whether or not to make side-findings. I've already indicated that this is the case in regular care. This also applies in the cohort studies. However, I would like to ask the Health Council also to clarify what this would mean in the specific situation of the provision of preventive health research. I think that might help us. I already indicated that this study dates back to 2014. That was in another context. Let's ask the Health Council to look at this specifically. Mrs Westerveld and Mr Hijink asked a question about the capacity of the inspection. The inspection, anticipating this, has expanded its capacity. Here's what I'm assuming. If this law were to be adopted, sufficient capacity would be available at the moment. In doing so, each year, as is customary, the capacity is and will remain sufficient in an annual cycle. Then there was a question from Mrs Westerveld. That question was also in line with a question by Mr Slootweg concerning scarce care staff. Mr Slootweg also specifically asked about the availability of screening laboratories. We do not currently have any signals that the offers from research lead to the withdrawal of staff from regular care. That would be most undesirable; I share it entirely with your Chamber. Should the provision of preventive health research lead to problems in regular care, a safety net provision is also included in the envisaged law. Then there is a supplementary question from Mrs Westerveld on the health gap. Let me first stress in the answer that an important part of that health gap is primarily due to large differences in situations such as movement, nutrition, smoking behaviour and so on. These are matters that we must address in a very different way. I refer here to the Secretary of State and to the prevention debate, which is also very much on the agenda. The Secretary of State is also very active to continue to work on this. As you know, these are factors that explain that, mostly at some later age, as well as diseases and eventually mortality occur earlier. We have to address this in a different way than with this type of research, in any way, whether it is blood tests or urinalysis or a questionnaire or a particular form of imaging examination. There is therefore a specific approach to health deficits. Should the efforts of this legislative proposal lead to a widening and widening of the gap, there are two ways in which this can be addressed. For the first one, I would like to refer once again to that safety net clause. The second one is more obvious: if a study under a population or a larger group really leads to a widening of health differences, then it is preferable to consider using very broad and precisely at population level. Then you're gonna make a move. Then you make it an organized population survey. But as I said, this is one of the points that I consider very important. So I really think we should monitor that. We need to look at the usage, who's using it and what that means.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-9.u92	I'm just trying to get this last one working on me. So we're not doing it on the basis of scientific standards or anything, but we're doing it at the moment when there's a lot of demand for a sort of population survey. That's not what the Minister means, is it? Isn't it about scientific standards that show health benefits? That can only be the reason for a population survey, can't it? The reason can't be that suddenly there's a lot of demand?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-9.u93	I fully agree with Mr Slootweg that a population survey does not arise on the basis of the question. I indicated something on the basis of Mrs Westerveld's justified question. Suppose research is widely deployed but more happens among one part of the population and less in another part. If this would lead to health differences between those two groups, it should be based on the effectiveness of the use of that preventive study. Well, that's the assumption. If that is the case, then that is a consideration to say: should we not offer it widely from the public authorities? So it is not the question; it is the effectiveness and the difference in commitment between different population groups. Only the demand for an investigation can therefore not justify the deployment and provision of a public survey.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-9.u94	Just a little more time to get the hang of it. At the moment when there is really scientific evidence that you can do something with a population, I think it comes from scientific research that is important for the entire population. Now there's actually another sidewalk. We look and we see that there are suddenly greater health differences, and that's why we're actually involving the entire population. Anyway, it's the Minister's answer and I... let me put it this way: I'm gonna take it easy, but it seems really different from the way we conduct population surveys at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-9.u95	I should like to comment on Mr Slootweg. As you know, population research is based on criteria that have been established for decades: the Wilson-en-Jungner criteria. I won't walk them all by, but they're based on questions like: is there actually a health problem, is there a test that can distinguish between people with and without disease, does finding the condition prematurely have an impact and is there a treatment possible for it? That's some of those steps. Mrs Westerveld was right to point out that if an investigation is used widely at some point, it will ultimately lead to a difference in health outcomes. We have just talked about adding healthy life years or increasing life expectancy at population level. If that were to happen by launching an investigation, is there not, according to the Wilson-en-Jungner criteria, I would refer you to that; then you will also come to the Health Council in particular, a situation where you have to say: but then should we offer it widely organised? So we are indeed looking at those criteria, which we have been using for decades, including internationally, but we are doing so on the basis of the assumption: could it be that health differences are created by using them? If that's true, then you should look at it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-9.u96	Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-9.u97	Mrs Van der Laan and Mr Slootweg asked: can the Minister ensure that other professions are involved in the directive? The Dutch Society for Preventive Health Research is the primary trigger of the process, but other professional groups are closely involved. In doing so, I would like to call on all relevant professional groups to cooperate constructively in this. In addition, the IGJ reads with a new directive and sends a response to the relevant professions. Mr Slootweg asked: has the Minister made an analysis of the number of commercial suppliers of preventive investigations? The Nivel................................................................................................................................................................................................ A report has recently been presented to your Chamber on this matter. But I do not have an analysis of the exact number of preventive health studies or the exact number of providers. Then Mr Slootweg asked about the impact, the consequences, of preventive health research on the total healthcare costs. Research institute Panteia conducted research into the effects of preventive health research on healthcare costs in 2014. Both care costs and savings have been taken into account, in line with the discussion we have just had. The conclusion was then that the preventive health research involved a net additional cost of EUR 25 million. If necessary, let me also say, the legislative proposal allows preventive health research that has undesirable consequences to be banned, then we are talking about staffing and also about costs.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-9.u98	The Minister began his speech with a whole development that has taken place. Is that 2014 study also based on that 5% of individual demand, or did that 5% also grow between 2014 and 2022? Then I can imagine that can make a difference, if it was 2% or 3%, for example, and now 5%.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-9.u99	The exact percentage I owe you must remain guilty for a while. I can come back to that at a later date; this can also be done in writing if there is a need for it. I don't know that percentage by heart. The 5% I already indicated is from a few years after that. I don't know now. I can see if I can get that information.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-9.u100	You can do that in writing, another time. Can the Minister finish?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-9.u101	Yes. There was one final question from Mr Slootweg: how does the Minister look at the stainless steel report on health differences and commercial parties? If your Chamber refers to the report "Health differences beyond" of the stainless steel, then I do not agree that this also addresses the role of commercial parties. Of course, interesting findings are shared in that report, such as that when combating health differences much focuses on the individual. In the law, as has just been mentioned, there are safety net provisions to prohibit certain preventive health investigations as a health investigation, and I refer to the discussion we have just had. The situation is that...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-9.u102	I'm really sorry, because I don't have the page right now, but it's from Anders's life and worries. I think that's the last piece of advice. Let me put it this way: I hope the Minister also understands that such a recent advice that this really demonstrates weighs very heavily on us at the time when such a thing comes. This bill, whether you call it regulation or deregulation, seems to have a trend that gives commercial agencies more room.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-9.u103	Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-9.u104	Then I have to come back to that in writing, because I do not have this right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-9.u105	I'm glad the Minister's gonna ask the Health Council to reconsider an ethical framework. My question is another, namely about the care staff at a time when we have considerable deficits, in fact care-free. Is the Minister not afraid that if more commercial parties join, which, of course, also need qualified staff, and that is going to put additional pressure on our hospitals, laboratories and other places where we also need these people very much?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-9.u106	These preventive investigations, if they are extended in relation to... let's assume for a moment, because it's already happening, as I said. But if that were to be extended to what we are doing now, it would require staff. That could compete. The question is what the impact is, also compared to the total volume of people working in healthcare. That is not an evasive answer, but if it were to ask a lot of staff, you could certainly send it with this bill. Then we should see that. Logically, when we look at the answer to the question just now, there's a lot of focus on imaging research, like a scan. There may also be other studies, other types of imaging studies; we have talked about an echo in pregnancy and so on. But depicting research is comparatively labour-intensive. Part of the research that is now being offered is in a completely different angle, laboratory research. Many of these provisions are highly automated and require very few staff.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-9.u107	I also asked a question about the capacity of the inspection.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-9.u108	I've already answered that. The capacity of the inspection is already anticipating this, taking into account expanded. I assume that there will be enough for now. This is also something that is evaluated annually, as has already been done. But for the moment, the inspection has expanded its capacity to anticipate this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-9.u109	I want to finish. Mr. Hijink.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-9.u110	Maybe the Minister's answer went so fast that I didn't hear it right. On the basis of the directive currently in force at the Health Institute, has he now said that, if this law is passed, it will indeed be possible for all providers, such as Prescan, Total Bodyscan, to get started in the Netherlands and start performing the MRI scans here?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-9.u111	Yes. That was a question I didn't answer. I'm sorry about that. The answer is "yes" under all conditions of the law. Let me just mention the situation at the moment, what is happening in the Netherlands at the moment. You have just said something about this, but I am just describing the situation. At the moment, these scans are offered in the Netherlands in many different places. They just can't be carried out. The offer itself cannot be regulated. If they are then carried out in a place across the border, we cannot regulate it either. But they're being offered. I think people will find them, too. You may have looked at it yourself. You can walk in many big cities in the Netherlands somewhere and then you get such an offer. There's nothing we can do about that offer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-9.u112	That wasn't the question either. The moment it happens in the Netherlands, you make it more accessible. Then it becomes easier and perhaps more attractive for a large group to do it. Then it will be more rewarding for these companies to spend a lot of time and money there and to advertise more. Then this type of research, which can be proven to make no meaningful contribution to public health, will be offered. The reason I am asking again is that, under the terms of this law, to which the Minister refers, the licence requirement expires. Instead, directives will apply which the sector itself determines, directives that are already registered in the Register of the Healthcare Institute, and where important professional organisations have taken their hands off them. They say: they do not provide sufficient guarantees of quality. I find it rather worrying that that is the conclusion of this debate. Where some talk about regulating this type of research, there is clearly talk of deregulation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-9.u113	This has been discussed, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-9.u114	Clear. So much for this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-9.u115	We're going to vote on this bill this summer. On 21 June 2022 we shall vote on the law and the amendments. No motions have been tabled. Thank you very much to the Minister for his presence today.
