ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-10.u1	We now come to the debate of the year, I might add, the debate on the Dutch Sports Council Act (35983).
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-10.u2	We have six speakers from the Chamber, some of whom have serious speaking time. The first speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mrs Inge van Dijk from the CDA group. I'd be happy to give her the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-10.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Today we are going to talk about whether or not to set up the Dutch Sports Council as a permanent advisory body in the field of sport and social issues in relation to sport, and also moving, as colleagues Westerveld and Van Nispen rightly point out. Anyone who has poor parents, parents whose life bites more often than laughs, can play less sports. Despite many policies, many of which are aimed at lowering financial thresholds, the picture remains the same. Children from low-income families exercise significantly less than children from wealthy families. Because with pots of money we are not there if we really want to reduce inequality of opportunity in sport. As far as equality of opportunity in sport is concerned, 75% of people with disabilities are not sports. We need to zoom in on those vulnerable children and these people with disabilities, the so-called high-hanging fruit. Besides the high-hanging fruit we are in the Netherlands champion. I don't know how you guys look at this, but since I've been working here in the Chamber, I've been scaled up from Dutch champion to world champion. We now accept a lot of sitting as normal. As Professor Erik Scherder has often argued and as the Sports Council itself describes in its work agenda, inactivity is the other pandemic we have been dealing with for years now. It is the fourth cause of death worldwide, as scientists wrote in 2012. Globally, 5.3 million people die every year due to too little movement. These are more people than the number of people who die from smoking every year. In a letter to Minister Ernst Kuipers of VWS, the Dutch Sports Council calls on the government to make sports and exercise a first need for life. According to the Dutch Sports Council, the urgency of motion poverty calls for a shift from health promotion to health protection. Research shows that motion poverty is the biggest health problem of the 21st century. That is why we must look ahead and take action. It is the role of the government to protect the Dutch population from this. Sports and exercise are an essential part of this protection. In short, we're all moving too little. The struggle that the sector, the sport domes, the science and the Dutch Sports Council must face in order to make sport an essential sector is long and persistent. Coincidentally I just got an app from a number of gym owners who are looking forward with fear and trembling to the signal that in the autumn there will probably be a lockdown again. So how do we deal with sports? We have often had this debate with each other here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-10.u4	Always keep apps, huh? You know that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-10.u5	It wasn't a text.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-10.u6	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-10.u7	This while fit people recover from disease and surgery faster, sport is a super medicine to prevent certain diseases and you also mentally do not get worse from occasional an hour of exercise or exercise. Mr. Chairman. Let us also be honest: sometimes we make laws and regulations that often unintentionally lead to people moving less. A well-known example is the introduction of the student card in the early 1990s. From that year onwards, the number of cycling kilometres driven by young adults fell dramatically. Of course that was unintentional, but at the same time also logical. However, I would not be surprised if such a consequence of the introduction of the student-ov did not play any role in political decision-making at the time. My question to the Minister is therefore: will the Sports Council also have the opportunity to advise on and warn against possible consequences on sports and exercise behaviour in laws and regulations that seem to have nothing to do with that at first glance? How could we arrange for the Sports Council to take on that role? Mr. Chairman. Is this advisory board going to solve all our challenges? No, it does not, because it has the sole task of advising the government and parliament on the policy of the Empire. However, we do believe that this consultative college can bring great added value with their advice and the bridges that they can build between experts and politics, society and politics, and athletes and politics. The explanatory statement deals with the possible accommodation of the advisory college at two other consultative colleges, and the advice is not to do so. We share that. In fact, if the opinion had been to merge them together, we would have tabled an amendment to unbundling. We think it is important, especially given where we are now in the Netherlands with regard to sport and movement, that this advisory council should be given a separate stage and not become a small part of anything, as is now the case with the VWS budget. The advisory domain of the Dutch Sports Council includes sport in the broadest sense of the word: sport in relation to social themes and movement. We're really cheering this up. The Dutch Sports Council is an independent advisory council that supports or challenges the government's policy on sport in various ways, and above all feeds on the social debate, and will assume an active role for the government, parliament and society as a whole. The aim is that this will lead to better sports policies in the short and long term. Of course we would also like to give some signals to the Dutch Sports Council, because we would like to see a lot of attention paid to equality of opportunity in the advice I mentioned earlier in my speech so that our policy results in everyone moving a bit more and not just the happy few. For the CDA, sport in an association structure is of unprecedented importance for a society of less me and more us. We are not going to force anyone to join an association, but advising each other to encourage each other to go and continue to exercise is also more us, and we cannot get enough advice on that. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-10.u8	Thank you. Mrs. Van der Laan, from D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-10.u9	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. When people think of sports, they often think of their trusted club nearby or of the top sports performance, or watching games full of excitement. I think fewer people dwell on the world behind it. It is clear that this is a huge world, including a full-fledged labour market. How the sport has now been organized in the Netherlands has not gone by itself, that our top athletes have beamed and performed has also not gone by themselves and making sport accessible to people with fewer opportunities is certainly not self-evident. Getting sport higher on the political agenda has actually been one of the driving forces for me to go into politics. Another important motivation is to get as many people moving as possible. Of course, there is still some work to be done. I think all the spokesmen here agree with me. Only 53% of the Dutch comply with the movement standard; I cannot stress it well enough. As the Netherlands, we aim to bring this to 75% by 2040. Mr. Chairman. It's not gonna happen on its own. The differences in sports participation are large. The Mulier Institute has published numerous publications on this subject. Women exercise less and people with a migration background exercise significantly less, just as practically skilled people do less sports than theoretically skilled people. I therefore believe that the legal guarantee of the Dutch Sports Council as an advisory body is finally recognised. I see this as recognition of the value of sport, by the highest political level, but also as recognition that much remains to be done. Although I also think that you should be reluctant to set up all kinds of advisory councils, we must prevent reports from disappearing in the drawer. I do agree with the fact that the Dutch Sports Council is now officially in the law. They have done a good job and the added value has been demonstrated; this is also reflected in the evaluation. In addition, the debate on the importance of sport and movement has been going on in society for a long time, and by legally setting up this advisory council, we are actually showing as a political fact that we have heard that noise; I have weighed it. So it's just a good thing this is happening. For me, sport is also a fully-fledged policy issue. But, Mr President, as you know, every law also requires care, for example when it comes to the scope of the law and thus the work of the Sports Council. What does he advise on and what does he not advise on? I am thinking in particular of the coherence with existing advisory councils, such as the Health Council and the Health and Society Council. I have, of course, read the explanatory memorandum correctly. It immediately stated that the work of the Dutch Sports Council could not be taken over by the existing councils. There is something I can agree with, but sport and exercise are also part of prevention. Can the Minister state exactly what the dividing line is about and what the Sports Council is not about? Let me give you one example: moving the subject. This is not explicitly stated in the terms of reference, whereas the Sports Council of course advises on this. That is a very good thing because we still have a lot to do to get people moving, but it is not explicitly stated in an article. We want to see that changed, but Mr. Van Nispen will explain it in a moment. Mr. Chairman. With every advisory council, we have to ask the question out loud: does this really change policy? In my opinion, nothing is more annoying than the phenomenon of a group of professionals or experts giving advice and then doing very little with it, so that their work has no impact. I think we're all doing it for something, and that's what the President of the General Court just happened to appoint this morning: pay extra attention to the distance between the paper reality and the actual impact. I know that advisory councils are being evaluated, but is it really being considered whether there are actual policy changes? So are we looking at whether our decisions have an impact? Is this tracked, or can we do that from now on? I ask this because it has been said since the 1990s that we need to be critical of the establishment of advisory councils. Of course, I agree. But now I've been looking, and I can only narrowly find information on stopping advisory councils. That could be me; maybe I'm not looking hard enough. But have advisory councils stopped in the last 30 years? And how many did you add? I explicitly ask VWS for this because it is used as a counter-argument in the explanatory memorandum. Finally, how does the Minister view the interaction between the Dutch Sports Council on the one hand and the Sports Act on the other? Last year, we tabled a motion to do the preliminary work and come to a sports law. I believe that this is necessary for agreements on match fixing, unwanted behaviour, accessibility of sport and so on. Does the Minister agree with me that this future sports law can help as a kind of framework for the Dutch Sports Council, so it can be expected from the Council that it advises on exactly the things that are included in that sports law? I like to hear it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-10.u10	Thank you. Then Mr Van Nispen of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-10.u11	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Indeed, this is the debate of the year. That's right. Mr. Chairman. The focus on the social importance of sport and movement has increased in society and in politics. Fortunately, because sports and exercise are not only fun to do or watch, but also very important to keep our society sporty and healthy in the future. There are not many sports debates, but there are all sports spokesmen with a lot of enthusiasm and good proposals. Much has been achieved in recent years, but far from enough. I refer, for example, to the Chamberwide-supported Marijnissen motion. In the middle of the corona pandemic, the awareness grew that sports and moving are not the problem, but the solution is in a health crisis. That is why, among other things, the SP tabled a motion that said: we want a healthier and more sporty society in the future. There is already a great deal of research and there are already a lot of proposals to work out more sports and moving in the different sectors of our society, such as education, the labour market and care. Moving and sport have a positive impact on people's health, fitness and resilience. That is why the mission was to the government: come up with a plan to stimulate different sectors of sports and movement to get the Netherlands moving more. To this end, a number of cross-departmental scenarios and transfers had to be drawn up. That motion was adopted unanimously, but what finally happened to it actually disappoints me two years later. The revolution that is needed and which we had hoped for is actually not going to happen. So we still have a lot of work to do here. This is certainly not the fault of the Dutch Sports Council, the advisory body that has been giving advice for years and has been giving unsolicited advice to stimulate sport and exercise, and that today indeed has a legal basis and a permanent status. I read in the report that the members of the VVD asked: what actually happens to those opinions; what exactly did these opinions change? I think that is a fair question. But if it is true that the useful advice of the Sports Council has not been taken, or has not been taken, I think that is the case, then it is up to who. Is that the fault of the Sports Council or of the recipient, the policy-makers and the minister who have actually not done enough? I raise that question here, but it seems to me to be the latter. Mr. Chairman. On the contrary, the Dutch Sports Council plays an important role in setting up socially relevant themes around sport and moving and comes up with thorough advice: good quality, content and depth. The SP welcomes the fact that the Sports Council is given a legal basis, especially since the big issue of sport and movement is of particular importance to our society. I would like to mention two opinions which have been particularly helpful to me. That is first of all the advice Fun in moving from 2018. Sport and exercise should of course be part of education. "Schools, government, municipalities and sports associations together can make it possible for more attention to be paid to sports and exercise at school," says the Dutch Sports Council, because "young learned is done old." This advice inspired me. I still think we could and should do more with this. I know that there is a lot of demand for schools, but it is precisely sports and exercise that promote learning performance. So let us help the schools to make more attention to sport and movement possible. The second opinion, which I have been able to keep up with in particular, is on the 2020 playing field, on a future-proof organisation and financing of sport. That was quite abstract, but incredibly important, because top-level sports, latitudes and movement can be an essential pillar of a vital and resilient society. To achieve this, we need both a strong sports industry and a strong government, according to the Dutch Sports Council. Mr. Chairman. A question to the Minister: what is the situation with the Sports Act, which actually led to this idea? It has indeed landed in a chamberal motion, but has not yet been put into practice. At least, we haven't seen any draft law yet. Please give me a more detailed explanation. What exactly is the purpose of the floor strike that the Minister is still making? When can we expect it? And is the minister already working on something of a concept of that law? Because there are already a lot of ideas from practice. That's what I'm asking you to keep up the momentum. Is this a priority? The SP believes it is very important that there is more clarity: who is responsible for what? We don't want a municipality to be able to say in times when it's a little more difficult to finance: "Well, then we'll be cutting back on our social task of sport and moving around? The elderly or the people with disabilities can do with a little less." So no! Let's legalize this with sufficient funding. I'd like a state of affairs from the Minister. The Dutch Sports Council has developed in recent years. First of all, they advised on sporting events, which was the task of "but now much wider." The SP thinks that's good and valuable. We support and appreciate this broad scope, from latitude sports and moving to top sport and event policy, because of the great social importance of sports and moving for society. The Minister said in the note following the report: "The Dutch Sports Council has the task of advising the government, and the Minister of VWS in particular, and the Parliament on sport in the broadest sense of the word." That includes moving. Next, it explicitly asks whether moving the subject is also covered by this advisory task. The answer to that is: "Yes. The scope of the Dutch Sports Council extends to where sport has the potential to contribute to social issues, so do moving." Well, let us put that into the law so explicitly by not referring in Article 2 to "sports and social issues in relation to sport," but to "sporting and moving and social issues in relation to sport and moving." To this end, I have tabled an amendment together with Mrs Westerveld and Mrs Van der Laan. In fact, we think that this does justice to today's practice, to today's reality, but certainly also to what we want, to what we think it should be. Then it is better to lay that down explicitly in the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-10.u12	That is the amendment to item No. 8.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-10.u13	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, that's right. Just a few more questions about this law. We will soon have a much more extensive debate on sport, which will cover much more. The government indicates that after four years it is considered whether maintaining the advisory college is desirable. Why exactly? Is that common? We are giving the Sports Council a legal basis because it comes with important and valuable advice. I'd like an explanation of that. The Council of State notes that a consequence of the legal basis for the Dutch Sports Council may be that its role as a bridge builder and connector in the background. I don't see that directly myself, but I'd still like the Minister to respond to that. How is the Minister going to prevent this along with the Dutch Sports Council? Finally, Mr President. Today, we saw an advertisement in the newspaper "Maybe no one escaped the headline: "50.4 million from Dutch Lottery indispensable for sport, a record amount to Dutch sport." That's beautiful, you might think. More money to sports. Who wouldn't want that? But if you read correctly, you can read that among other things the president of NOC*NSF thanked the Dutch participants for their contribution to the sport. I don't blame the president of NOC*NSF for that. In this Chamber, among other things, we are making every effort to control addiction and to ban gambling advertising, because it leads to more gambling and leads to more misery and problems. Should we not seek to finance sport in a different way, at least to reduce dependence on gambling revenues? And shouldn't we ask the Dutch Sports Council for advice on how Dutch sport can become less dependent on winnings from gambling and sponsorship by gaming companies? At least that's the proposal I'm putting here tonight. I believe that this could lead to a healthier financing structure in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-10.u14	A little uncomfortable, though, this. We have had regular debates in the Chamber recently on gambling and on money from gambling and also on sports. We have always made a very clear distinction between high-risk and low-risk games of chance. The Dutch Lottery is a low-risk game. We've all seen and agreed to that here. That's what we've been talking about. We have said: we are going to make a full effort to see if we can reduce the risky games of chance, such as the online market. By putting it all together today, it gives me the very uncomfortable feeling that you are still on a course to take the money from sport. I have a problem with that, because that money actually belongs to sport. Low-risk games of chance provide money for sport. La Française des Jeux and the British Lottery in England do the same; it is quite normal. I don't think we should go that way. I imagine you're saying we might need to do more from the government. Fine. But let's not touch the normal money from the low-risk lotteries.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-10.u15	I think it is very good that Mr Heerema says here that there is a distinction between risky and low-risk games of chance. I know Mr. Heerema always says that. That's what I say all the time. Because of the short speaking time, I would not have bothered to make that comment, but there is a difference. However, participation in the TOTO is not entirely risk-free either. Because of all gambling advertisements, young people who look at what a certain result has been on VI.nl are also given the idea to take a guess. That was not necessarily the purpose of the legalization of the market. So new groups of gamblers are being tapped. Mr Heerema also says that it is perfectly normal that the proceeds from gambling should be transferred to sport. Actually, I think that's quite something. It has been arranged for years, but that does not mean that we should not think about whether we consider it desirable. Do we think it is desirable that the result should be that the president of NOC*NSF says: thank you for taking part in gambling, because you have contributed to the sport? I raise the question as to whether there can be a smarter funding of sport. I believe that Mr Heerema has done the same in the past. One could think for example: the payments of lotteries or a higher gambling tax are due to the Dutch State and that finances the sport at a solid level. So Mr Heerema should not pretend that the SP is taking away sport from it. On the contrary, I want solid funding for sport. That is what my entire speech is all about. But I do think it would be healthier and wiser to make sport less dependent on the proceeds from games of chance, from whatever games of chance. That doesn't mean sport has to suffer. It must remain on a solid level. However, I do not think that we can even have a proper debate here about banning gambling advertising without anyone saying 'ho ho, watch the sport'. That is why I am in favour of an opinion from the Dutch Sports Council to map this very well. That's not even so radical.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-10.u16	Your radical things come in second term. The next speaker is Mrs Westerveld from the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance. She had initially requested a speaking time of Castroian proportions, but she reduced it to eight minutes after a slight pressure from the President.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-10.u17	That is not so bad, Mr President, but it is true that my speaking time is a little shorter than I had previously given up. Mr. Chairman. While we are debating here, there are thousands of children walking the evening four days. After two years we finally see the long scenes of children again, we see how many children have fun moving, we see that the parents often walk along and actually like it very much. I also hope that those four-day evenings will give more children exercise and exercise. Mr. Chairman. That, of course, should also be the objective of the Sports Council: to get as many people moving as possible, especially those who are still lagging behind the rest. Some groups have bigger problems when it comes to health, sports and exercise. Mr. Chairman. Of course, the Sports Council also gives very valuable advice. For example, recently, at the end of March, there was another valuable advice on paralympic sports. I'm very happy with that kind of advice. This is what this is about. We must also include those who are more difficult to exercise and move for. These are very important advice from the Sports Council. I also look forward to the response of the cabinet to this opinion. Mr. Chairman. I would also like to talk about the visibility of top sporting events. Not all people, not all tournaments get equal attention. For example, the paralympic disciplines often get a little less attention than the Olympics. The same applies to the Special Olympics, the games for people with intellectual disabilities. Of course, we have a responsibility in that too. I regularly see MPs and ministers at very big top sporting events. That is of course very nice and valuable, because sport connects and it is good to be there, but I see us less often in the paralympic disciplines and in the Special Olympics. If you look at the pleasure in sports, there are my highlights. I saw a team a few years ago who deliberately had another team scored at football, because they felt so sad that the opponent hadn't scored a goal. Then both teams were cheering. Of course, that's very beautiful. The adadium was also very long: you already win if you join. I liked that and that is of course also the essence of sport: we can all participate, we all have fun, whether you are sports or watching. I would like to say to all the sports spokesmen and to the Minister: join the Special Olympics on Friday 10 June. Of course, something can come up, but let us show as a Chamber that we also consider this very important, that we consider sport and exercise important for people with disabilities. It's a lot of fun, too. Maybe we could go there with each other and give these people the attention they deserve. Mr. Chairman. Then there's another question about the Special Olympics. Next year, the World Special Olympics will be in Berlin. Then 72 Dutch athletes compete with 7,000 athletes from 190 countries. That is of course also a very beautiful and inspiring example for these athletes, also because this group has had hard hits during corona and has started to move a lot less. I would like to ask the Minister how she supports the Dutch athletes and the volunteers. Are they accompanied and supported? Is there an expense allowance, for example, including for volunteers? I know from Dutch events that this has not always been the case in recent years, so I am curious about it. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll move on to the law. My questions include three themes. First of all, I have a question about the scope of the Advisory Council, then I have a few questions about its composition and then I have a question about the finances. Mr. Chairman. Article 2 of the Act states: "The Council has the task of advising the Government and both Chambers of the States-General on policies relating to sport and social issues in relation to sport." But, of course, it's about sports and moving. Sports is a way to do that. One of our objectives should be to move as many people as possible, whether through the sports association or through a walking club. Advising on moving should therefore be just as much a core task. Mr Van Nispen tabled an amendment to that effect. I have signed that amendment with great love, because it is also very important for people with disabilities, for the elderly and for smaller children to move. From the note on the report, I understand that the Minister agrees. That is why I am very interested in the Minister's response to this amendment. This means that we can legally lay down that the opinions are broader than just sport. Mr. Chairman. I also have a question about the opinions. What exactly is happening with that? I also know a number of other advisory colleges. Sometimes you see things being done with advice that suits the government, while other advice is put deep into a drawer. Of course, that's a shame. Indeed, I had the same opinion as Mr Van Nispen, namely the opinion that the Sports Council, together with the Health Council and the Education Council, made on the importance of moving, including during education. Moving during education is important because it helps children learn better. This is an example of a very good opinion which I believe was received by one of the ministers' predecessors. In addition, everyone said: there is good advice here; we have to do something with this. Then you can see that too little has happened to it. I would like to ask the Minister how she sees this. Would she perhaps talk about this with the other Minister of Education in her term of office? I think it is a shame that this kind of good advice is delivered by not one, but by three advisory councils, and that then little happens to it. Mr. Chairman. My second part deals with the composition of the Advisory Council. The framework law provides for advisory councils to have a certain diversity. For example, the aim should be to ensure equal distribution of men and women and to ensure a proportionate representation of people belonging to cultural and ethnic minorities. For the Sports Council, that's actually not enough. There are a number of groups in the Netherlands where sports and movement lags behind compared to the rest. Women exercise less often, just like groups with a migration background. I just mentioned people with disabilities. They also exercise and move less often. That is why it is very nice that they should be well represented in the Sports Council or that people with specific knowledge are on that Sports Council. We also see in the Netherlands, for example, that adolescents aged 12 to 17 exercise less than young children and adults and that older people move less. That is why this specific knowledge should be present. We have therefore also tabled an amendment calling for this to be taken into account. We really say that diversity in the broad sense of the word and knowledge about different groups is very important. So those aren't hard numbers on checklists. I also know that the current composition of the Sports Council is very nice. There's different people in there. Different disciplines and knowledge about all kinds of levels are present there, but it would be good to set such a target standard in the law as well. I tabled an amendment together with Mr Van der Laan to record this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-10.u18	The amendment in part No. 9.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-10.u19	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Finally, financial matters. The note following the report states that the members of the Council are paid from the highest step of scale 18. The "ordinary" members work four hours and the president works eight hours. I am often critical of money that we put into the public sector. For example, I have recently asked Parliament questions about the remuneration of directors and supervisors. Isn't this crazy when you look at the rewards on the workplace floor? I would also like to put a question to the Minister about this. If I have calculated correctly, this reward means that members of the Council get about €1,000 per month for half a day per week. The chairman works all day and gets double. I think that's a pretty high reward. I do not know how that is in proportion to other advisory committees and councils, such as the Health Council and the Health and Society Council, but I would ask the Minister to take a look at that. Can the Minister respond to my critical comment on the amount of this amount? Mr. Chairman. Then I'm done with my contribution. I'm really glad we're having this conversation about the installation. I love seeing colleagues here again. I look forward to our next broad debate on sport policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-10.u20	Thank you. The next speaker is Mr Rudmer Heerema of the VVD group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-10.u21	Mr. Chairman. The Sports Council has been in existence since 20 May 2016. So we're debating the Sports Council two days before its sixth birthday. It is very good that we are talking today about the legal anchoring of the Sports Council as a fully-fledged consultative body of the government, both Chamber and Cabinet. Other important sectors, such as health or education, also have their own advisory councils. The sports sector is at least as important. From this point of view, it is therefore logical that the sports sector should also be given its own consultative body. Mr. Chairman. However, this debate is also the time to be critical over the past six years, with the aim of getting a better and more effective legally anchored Sports Council. The Sports Council was primarily responsible for advising on events and events policy. The choice of which events should or should not receive a grant was initially with a NOC*NSF working group. In recent years, I have been critical of the opinions on the assessment of grant applications for major events. For example, I have asked questions about the negative assessment of the European Championship cycling in Alkmaar, where we have to look back at the fact that this has been a failure of the Sports Council. It was fantastic organized. It was taken over from another city in a short time, but as far as subsidy application was concerned it was stuck in the bureaucracy of the Sports Council. Or think about the Gymnaestrada, which I also asked questions about. This is an event where tens of thousands of people are moving themselves, but what fell outside the scope of the Sports Council. It was not considered how it could be made possible, but whether the application fits exactly within the lines of our framework. Mr. Chairman. Event retrieval is a precarious process in which a network, bidbook, award factor, personal relationships, support from business as well as a political antenna are important. There's no way to check that out in a list. It certainly doesn't help if grant applicants have to deliver documents to the VWS ministry and submit other documents to the Sports Council. With effect from 1 January 2021, the task of the Sports Council Review Committee to assess grant applications for internationally appealing sporting events has been terminated. I think this is a very good improvement. If I understand correctly, this task is now fully invested in the VWS Ministry. That is why I would like to ask the Minister whether the adage "how can we make beautiful events possible?" The Commission's proposal for a Council Directive What does it take to celebrate success together? Can we ensure that Dutch sports heroes are increasingly given the chance to win gold in the Netherlands at more and more beautiful and larger events, with the effect that more and more children are inspired to play sports? Mr. Chairman. In recent years, the Sports Council has given a large number of advice, a whole zipper, on many different topics, such as the organisation and financing of top sports, educational climate in sport, equivalent and including advice on the development of paralympic top sport, organisation and financing of sport, Regie op kunde, Nederland eventenland en Open kaart bij impact. I have been critical of some of those opinions. I was critical when it came to timing and when it came to content. I was that, for example, in the opinion on fun in moving, Mr Van Nispen also spoke about being offered together with the Health Council and the Education Council at a time when we were able to make a political breakthrough on the anchoring of two hours of movement education in primary education. This opinion led to a considerable delay. In fact, this anchoring was then achieved only by working around the CDA, D66 and the Christian Union, which, with this opinion in hand, indicated at the time that this opinion had to be looked at first. There was good cooperation with the opposition at the time, particularly Mr Van Nispen. I am still grateful for the result we achieved at another time. My question to the Minister is: which of these opinions have been drawn up at the request of the Minister? Does the Minister have an expectation of the quality and quantity of the opinions we and she receive? And can the Minister give examples of an opinion that has led to a significant shift of direction? I believe that this is a broader question, because several parties have actually talked about it. Mr. Chairman. When we talk about the opinions, we should also talk about the exact nature of the route. The Sports Council has not been legally anchored in recent years. Perhaps that explains the difference with other public advisory bodies. I have been an educational spokesperson for years and I see a clear difference between how the Education Council deals with advice and how the Sports Council does it. In my view, an advisory board conducts a thorough investigation, provides a thorough opinion after that examination, and then leaves it to the political authorities to decide which advice we consider and what decisions to take. I say it quite honestly: I have difficulty with it and I find it quite complicated when an official advisory body of the government, in addition to giving advice, is going to run an activist lobby to get its own advice. I've never been to the Health Council or the Education Council before. But, for example, with regard to the opinion on the Sports Act, which we in the Chamber are widely discussing and adopting motions for resolutions, there is a constant stream of activism that insists on the sports law. I don't think that's appropriate for this advisory body of the government. Some restraint and giving us the space to act as politicians for which we have been appointed would adorn the Sports Council.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-10.u22	A question from Mr Van Nispen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-10.u23	I'm a bit of an activist myself, so maybe that's why I feel addressed. But I didn't find that type of activism in all honesty at the Sports Council. Yes, there are passionate people who want the best with sport, which is why they are also on the Sports Council and come up with advice, which is by no means all taken over by the government. Unfortunately, almost. But what exactly does Mr Heerema blame the Dutch Sports Council? That they brought their advice to the attention of the public? How do I place it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-10.u24	I tried to report this. I believe that an advisory council should carry out an investigation, give a thorough opinion and then leave it to politics to decide how we weigh something and how we then proceed with it. In my personal experience research has been done, a thorough advice has been given, it has been returned to us and as a politician at least I get calls, e-mails, questions. Several times. I find that uncomfortable, because I think that an advisory body should keep away after giving the advice, in order to allow us to do our job.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-10.u25	Yes. Is that enough?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-10.u26	Okay, well, I have less trouble with that myself. Maybe I have another experience, too. I do not have as much difficulty with it as an advisory board thinks: we have good advice and it would be a shame if little happened to it. In my view, it was also in response to a question from us that they made a deepening impact on the opinion, which ultimately led to the idea of a sports law. This is, therefore, even more well-founded, exactly what Mr Heerema wants. But let me ask you another question. I tried a somewhat critical attitude to Mr Heerema about the fact that not many of the opinions were delivered. Do I understand that Mr Heerema blames the point that has been made with a number of proposals too little, not the Sports Council, but actually the government? I am referring, for example, to the fact that there should be an initiative from the Chamber before Fun or before the Sports Act. In short, is Mr Heerema satisfied with what the government has done in the field of sports and movement over the past few years? Or has the government too often ignored the advice from the Sports Council?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-10.u27	The Sports Council has been set up in my view to advise on events, grants on events and events policies. My first question, which I also referred to the Minister, is: which of the opinions that have now been given have actually been drawn up in accordance with, in consultation with or at the request of the Minister? I think that's pretty important. Of course, it is very good that an advisory body should give advice on a very wide range of issues in the field of sport, but it should fit in with the policies we are working on and for which we have money. Of course, when it comes to Fun in moving, a fantastic advice can be given at the wrong time, but a fantastic advice. But if you look at the realism with which we then try to achieve that, for example in schools, I cannot blame the government for not being able to provide more mobility in each class, for example every 30 minutes just 5 minutes standing up and moving, as Mr Scherder recommends. I can't blame the Cabinet for that. But I do say, and I shall come back to this later in my speech: should we as a government, whether it be as a Chamber or a Cabinet, I do not think that as a Chamber should look much more closely at the work programme of the Sports Council? We have discussed this once as a Chamber, but a whole series of studies and opinions have not been included in that work programme. I find that rather complicated, because that is not, as far as I am concerned, the framework with which we have gone.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-10.u28	I'm starting to get really worried about this. Now it seems like the advisory board... I would nevertheless like to see an independent advisory council on the work programme itself. Of course, we can give tips on that. After all, the Chamber can also ask for an opinion. I happen to have made a proposal to that effect. The government may request an opinion. But let us not pretend to be disrespectful; Mr Heerema did not say that the Sports Council is a sort of political errand boy. 'Cause I don't think it should be like that. It would be very strange if the Dutch Sports Council were to say, so to speak, that the framework of the government agreement does not allow us to move more in education. I hope that is not how Mr Heerema said just now: not within the financial frameworks set by politics. Please let the Sports Council be an advisory body that keeps us all sharp: do we do enough? I hope we can agree on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-10.u29	Yes, we agree on that. But Mr Nispen's question in the previous round was: who blames you for not doing much? If an opinion is given that we as a government, as a parliament, as a minister, for example because of financial constraints, then who do you blame? I don't think that's anyone's fault at all. I don't blame the Minister and I don't blame the Sports Council for coming up with the advice. I can only see that there is a whole zipper of advice that we cannot do or have done enough with, because there is no such space. That is why I find Mr Van Nispen's question rather complicated. In my view, there is no culprit, which is sought, who then has a conscience for failing to deliver opinions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-10.u30	I'm a little worried too, maybe about two things. First of all about the definition of 'deep activist', because phone calls, texts and e-mails are in any case not included in my definition of 'deep activist', but also about how Mr Heerema sees the Sports Council. Does he see them as an independent advisory body, and indeed we then make the political weighting "is this realistic, is there money for that, do we want to do this with each other?" And they give the advice where it should go? Or does Mr Heerema think that we should be much more concerned with the content of the programme 'involvement' sounds unkindly?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-10.u31	I think I agree with both of them. I believe that the Sports Council should give independent advice, but we should give attention to issues in the work programme. I believe that we have been at the Education Council together, who have submitted their work programme to us and have spared with us on: what subjects do you, as a Chamber, consider important in order to get to the horns as well? I can imagine something like that at the Sports Council. We spoke once about the work programme of the Sports Council. We have also made comments on this. After that, I also see a number of opinions that we have not discussed with the Sports Council. Of course, that's okay, but you can't blame anyone for not being able to do everything with it at the time. I did not mention the term 'deep activist'; I did mention 'activism'. I am simply not in favour of not asking what is going on with the advice they have given, but of trying to steer in a certain direction towards the advice they have given. You don't have to do that for me. I can think for myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-10.u32	I'm lucky I can think too. But I don't think it's very strange that when you write an opinion and you're sitting there with passionate people who want a lot more sports and movement in the Netherlands, you don't just write an opinion but want something to happen with it. That's why I don't think this is crazy. I would like to ask one last question. If we say to each other that perhaps too little has happened with a number of opinions, then of course we should also look at ourselves and perhaps invite the Sports Council or other experts more often or more often with their advice. I'm not saying there's always time. I also know that we do not always invite the Education Council to discuss it, but we could of course do so more often with important advice from the Sports Council, so that we can discuss it and see what we can do as a policy with these opinions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-10.u33	The Education Council is full of passionate people. The Health Council is full of passionate people. And yet I see a difference between the Sports Council and the other councils that, as far as I am concerned, are at the same level from the government and certainly come up with the legal anchoring that is ahead today. If we have the idea that we have done too little or that we have been able to do too little, especially with the advice given, I see a number of wonderful advice coming along.... this also has to do with, for example, the financial resources or the organisational forms that we cannot use to shape it more. This has to do with the question of whether we can make sufficient funds available for sport. The budget has increased from 125 million in 2016 to now 195 million, leaving out the VAT compensation. As far as I am concerned, of course, it should also be higher. Then perhaps we can also give more form to some of the opinions that have been given.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-10.u34	Fine. Rounding off, very briefly. Short, short.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-10.u35	It is of course also a question of political will. That's not a hard thing, is it, yes or no? That's what we can talk about here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-10.u36	Yes, but then, of course, politics is looked at about the total what is possible or not, what you can or can't reserve money for, and how hard you can get something done. Mrs Westerveld is politician enough to understand how that game works. Mr. Chairman. I therefore believe that it is also important to mention here at least that the Council of State's opinion report speaks very reluctantly about the creation of large numbers of advisory councils and that it has been sober in recent decades. My question to the Minister is how she has taken into account the comments of the Council of State in this legislative proposal and why the consideration has been made to consider the issue of the Council of State's reluctance so little. Mr. Chairman. In the event of a legal anchoring, all council members are dismissed and the ten positions are vacant. So there will be ten vacancies for the Sports Council. However, I have heard that the urgent appeal has been made to the sitting council members to apply for these ten vacancies. I could also imagine that this new phase of the Sports Council could use a, perhaps partly, different staffing, at least when it comes to its own social background in sport, when it comes to keeping distance after offering advice and when it comes to the most effective sports council at this new stage. That is why I was pleased to hear Mrs Westerveld say: there are also areas of attention and there are also target groups that may deserve more attention than we can now find in the Sports Council. That is why the question to the Minister whether she can outline how the job opening route will go. I'm allowed to assume there's going to be a serious application procedure. I would be disappointed if the vacancies without serious thought about what this phase needs would be filled in one-on-one by the current members of the Sports Council. Mr. Chairman. You will hear that I am quite critical of this legal anchoring of the Sports Council, but that critical attitude is mainly because I think that the Sports Council has the potential to grow. As far as I am concerned, there are two other things that we have to do with this, namely to give greater attention to the work programme of the Sports Council and also to provide research missions from the Chamber. In fact, Mr Van Nispen did so with his contribution. I will therefore come forward with a motion in second place asking for an opinion from the Sports Council on older people in relation to movement and sport, the distance they experience to sport and how we can improve it. Because being able to take steps there, a fitter, healthier and more resilient Netherlands brings a bit closer again.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-10.u37	Very well, thank you. The last speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mrs Maeijer from the Group of the Party for Freedom.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-10.u38	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Sport is important, exercise is important and good advice can be valuable, but my group also believes it is important that we are reluctant to set up advisory councils. Because before you know it, there's a proliferation of advisory councils and an ever-growing pile of advice. And no matter how good they can be, they need to be read, they need to lead to discussion and they may need to be turned into policies. That is why I would like to take advantage of my time today to get clear answers from the Minister on usefulness and necessity. I would like to know what has been done in concrete terms with previous opinions. I also have questions about other possibilities and the overlap with other advisory councils and knowledge centres. Mr. Chairman. The Council of State writes: "Since the revision of the advisory system, the government has sought to be reluctant to set up new separate advisory committees." What's the government like for the past ten years? Could the Minister perhaps give an overview of what has come or gone? And can the Minister motivate what makes the Dutch Sports Council a separate permanent advisory body? The Council of State further states: "The fact that sport is a special field and that the members of the Sports Council are competent does not mean that the principle of restraint mentioned above can be ignored." What, then, does the Minister think can be ignored? In the answers to the written questions, the Minister writes that the impact of the opinions is taken into account. What exactly is the impact and what does the Minister measure that impact on? The advisory role of the Dutch Sports Council partly overlaps with the areas of advice of the Health Council and the Health Council. The Council of State says: "Immers, sport can potentially be used to support goals such as health, well-being, education and viability." To what extent has there been overlap in recent years? Is there cooperation and coordination? What is the relation to, for example, the Sport & Move Knowledge Centre? Can the Minister explain again why the Dutch Sports Council could not be included in one of these councils? Mr. Chairman. The government writes about the Sports Council as a kind of identification for sport as a full-fledged policy area. Is a Dutch Sports Council really needed to legitimise sport as a full-fledged policy area? Is this not in a political action that is being taken instead of setting up an Advisory Council? Mr. Chairman. The Minister writes that the opinions have been taken seriously, but what policy changes have the opinions made a concrete contribution to? Could the minister be more specific? In the evaluation report we read that stakeholders believe that the Dutch Sports Council has a less open approach and its independence is less self-evident than with other advisory councils. How does the Minister see this? Mr. Chairman. From 2022 onwards, more than one million are budgeted annually. Is this comparable to other advisory councils of the same composition? What do the council members actually deserve now? Can the Minister mention amounts? I would like to join with Mrs Westerveld in her questions on this subject. Finally, Mr President. The PVV recognises the importance of sport and good advice. However, we believe that it is important to be cautious to set up new advisory councils in order to avoid a kind of proliferation of advisory councils. We would therefore like to hear the Minister explicitly about the usefulness and need of setting up the Dutch Sports Council as a permanent advisory body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-10.u39	Thank you. Mrs Maeijer was the last speaker on the side of the Chamber. I'm gonna suspend until 8:10 and then we're gonna listen to the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-10.u40	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-10.u41	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is a special moment to be standing here and athletic that everyone comes back in to talk to the Chamber about sports for the first time and then also about a legislative proposal. That doesn't happen often when it comes to sports. With the bill I want to establish the Dutch Sports Council as a permanent advisory body in the field of sports policy and social issues in relation to sport. I am pleased that the Chamber supports the importance of this. Sports in general is invaluable to society through, among other things, the pleasure and satisfaction it gives people, but also through the positive effect on physical and mental health and by bringing people together as a social bond. An advisory college that advises politics and society on this issue is also invaluable. Since the establishment of the Sports Council as a temporary advisory body in 2016, the Sports Council has given several good and impactful advices that have contributed to the Dutch sports policy. I shall come back to the specific question later in the answer to the questions: what opinions are they and what have they led to? In any event, the evaluation of the Sports Council in 2019 showed broad agreement that the opinions are meaningful and impactful. Many interviewees indicated that their own advisory board matures the sports sector. Mr. Chairman. The scope of the advice of the Sports Council is not limited to the sport itself, but also extends to where sport has the potential to contribute to societal issues. Sport belongs to the advisory domain of the Dutch Sports Council in the broadest sense of the word. It is not just about sports-specific topics, such as latitudes, paralympic sports, top-level sports and a good and accessible sports infrastructure, but it is also about sport in relation to social themes, such as pedagogy, integrity and well-being. Of course, there is no doubt in this regard that sport is a leading and central issue in all opinions. This also applies to the knowledge and expertise in the board. The current council is already diverse in composition.I will come back to the questions about this later and already have quality, knowledge and social experience to give impactful and valuable advice on sport in the broadest sense of the word. It is clear that I want to keep that at least. Again, I'll go into the questions in a moment. Mr. Chairman. I have divided the questions into four blocks: the role and task of the Sports Council, the advice of the Sports Council, the composition of the Sports Council and finance and governance. Finally, I will respond to some general content and to the amendments. It may be that the answer to some of the questions will be delayed. I apologise for that, but that has everything to do with the technical problems we have just experienced. It was really top sport to get that done; I just said that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-10.u42	That was just to get you in the mood a little bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-10.u43	Yes, that's a bit the mood of top sport, but also of team sport! Mr. Chairman. A number of questions have rightly been asked about the role and performance of the Sports Council. Mr Heerema of the VVD asked how I would make sure that the Sports Council became somewhat more reluctant to run their activist lobby to get its own opinions taken over. That's what I'm gonna discuss with the council. I attach great importance to the Council's independent position. They are free to decide for themselves what and how they advise, and who they want to talk to about it. However, I think it is important that the Council is open and transparent about this. Of course, that has to fit within the legal frameworks we have agreed on. If there is a situation where there is doubt, I will discuss it with the Council. But I say to Mr Heerema that I am going to discuss this with the Council anyway. Mr Van Nispen of the SP asked if the Lower House could also give an advisory mandate to the council. Yes, you have that right. I think you said the same thing yourself. You have the right to ask questions directly to the advisory bodies. There's a procedure for that, too. However, I would prefer to be able to discuss this with you, as we have regular exchanges of views on sport policy. In this way we can see if we do not ask for double advice from the Sports Council and whether we can do it somewhat coherently and in harmony with each other. That's my question. Then the question of...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-10.u44	Mr Van Nispen on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-10.u45	I understand the Minister's response. I'd like to be willing to do that, too. Only, we have a sports debate only twice a year. That's a little small, 'cause then you'll have to wait pretty long until you can discuss that with the minister. But in this case, we have a debate. This is the time when at least two concrete proposals have been made, so I think this would also be the time when the Minister could say 'gosh, that's an interesting subject, but it's a bit busy at the Sports Council' or 'I already have a similar opinion'. However, I would suggest that we discuss these two proposals in substance this evening, but I fully appreciate and understand that under normal circumstances we should not put forward proposals in order. I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-10.u46	I will come back to that later. Then the question that shows that the Sports Council creates added value. That was a question from among others D66. The evaluation of the Sports Council in 2019 shows the view that the Sports Council is already creating added value and that this is widely shared, that the Board operates from an independent role as a link between policy and the sports sector and that the Board is characterized by its ability to build bridges between the different parties in the field. This is due, among other things, to the broad knowledge and expertise about sports and movement. They can create a broader view of sport policy in relation to societal issues. In this way they also contribute to strengthening the social significance of sport. The question that rightly comes with this is what status depends on the advice of the Sports Council and to what extent the government takes these opinions seriously. Those opinions are taken seriously into account in the choices and decisions of the VWS Department in the development of sport policy. The previous opinions on events, for example, have been taken into account in the new event policy. The opinion The preparation on the playing field is taken into account in the implementation of the Van der Laan motion, which calls for a deepening of the future sports policy. This opinion launched a wide-ranging debate on the sport system. In doing so, the Sports Council recommends that a major financial boost be given to the sector. I can take that advice. I would, however, like to say that such a financial stimulus naturally takes place within a broader financial consideration in the cabinet. That was actually the point Mr Heerema made. I sent your Chamber this week an update on the process I am going through with the sector to get to work on the floor. After the summer recess, I expect to be able to inform you about possible forms of governance for a new sport system, including an overview of the financial and legal consequences. Then I would be happy to discuss this with you. Next to Mrs Van Dijk's question, what I think of the suggestion that the Sports Council should be given an advisory role on the impact of all laws and regulations on sport and movement. In all honesty, it is quite a step to give the board this advisory role by default and formally. There is, of course, also a multitude of legislation coming along. I do believe, however, that the Council's opinions can be effective and have an impact earlier in the policy process preceding the legislation. So they're important. The Council has really made its contribution at an early stage to the opinion on the sports system, on which I am now taking the floor and on which I can exchange views with your Chamber. This does not prevent the Council from always asking for or giving unsolicited advice on certain laws and regulations. So I'm not in favour of making that mandatory in general. I will go along with Mrs Van Dijk in the sense that we must constantly consider whether or not an opinion from the Sports Council could influence the treatment of legislation and regulations.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-10.u47	In fact, I am particularly concerned that, at the moment we are preparing legislation in this house that may have a major impact on movement, we are also simply taking that into account. That's separate from the advisory board.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-10.u48	Yes. I can promise. Then there is Mr Heerema's question as to whether I have an expectation pattern of the quantity and quality of the advice I receive. Again, the Sports Council is independent and advises asked and unsolicited. In practice, I expect the Sports Council to deliver on average three opinions a year. I think that the advice may also have to be lower in terms of quality if production is higher. I wouldn't want that. The number of opinions depends on the size of the opinion. For example, the Sports Council has spent one and a half years advising on the organisation and financing of sport. That was good advice, too. Given the scale of that opinion, I understand that, for example, other opinions announced will be delayed longer. As far as quality is concerned, I expect the Sports Council to provide impactful and innovative advice, supported by scientific research, in a transparent way developed with those involved in the field. Mrs Van der Laan asked whether the opinions had an impact, or whether we could take care of them. You also said that we should now be critical of the number of advisory councils. You also asked whether advisory councils have stopped or joined. You specifically asked VWS because it was mentioned as a counter-argument in the explanatory memorandum. First the question about the impact of the opinions. As I have just said, the advice of the Sports Council is taken seriously into account in the choices and decisions of the Ministry of Sports in the development of sports policy. I have just mentioned the examples of the events and the setting up on the playing field. As far as the latter is concerned, there is already an opinion to give a major financial boost to the sector. That is a sound advice, which will certainly have its impact in its elaboration. Then there is the question of the number of advisory colleges. The Advisory System Review Act, the "Desert Law," introduced a reorganisation, reducing the number of about 200 advisory colleges to about 40 advisory colleges. You asked how many consultative colleges have joined or have not joined since the entry into force of the Framework Act. I don't have that overview. Nor do I, as Secretary of State for Long-Term Care and Sport, deal with this; it falls within the system of responsibility of the Minister for Foreign Affairs. If you appreciate it, I can consult with her to send you the summary in writing, but I don't have it right now. Then there is Mr Heerema's question as to which opinions have been drawn up at the request of the Minister. I have here a list: "The Netherlands on the map, an analysis of 25 major sporting events in the Netherlands," you know; "Open map at impact," the advice to increase the impact of sporting events; "Netherlands event country?', an opinion on a strategic agenda for events and a policy framework for sporting events; "Fiscality in sporting events"; "Regis on knowledge," an opinion on the knowledge chain of sporting events; "Organisation and financing of sport," an opinion on the sustainability of the sport system; the opinion "Equal and inclusive," which deals with the further development of paralympic top sport; and the opinion "Topsport and media," which is in preparation. Then there is a question from Mr Heerema. The Council of State was reluctant to include the Sports Council as an advisory body. Why is it so little has been done with that advice? The Council of State's reluctance was based on two arguments. Firstly, the establishment of the Sports Council as an advisory body can mean that the board loses its role as a bridge builder. You don't have to, but you can. I share that fear a little less. I have already indicated to Mr Heerema that I would like to discuss this with the Council. I am confident that the Sports Council can retain that role. The second argument of the Council of State was that the advisory role of the Sports Council may overlap with that of the Health Council and the Health & Society Council. I've been researching how to accommodate this task of the Sports Council on these boards. That study showed that it was not desirable for both Advisory Councils, in particular because there was too little overlap. In the final evaluation of the Council for Health & Society of 2019 by the Van der Schoot Committee, it was found that the legal task of the RVS is very broad and that more substantive focus is desirable. For this reason alone it is illogical and impossible to add a broad field of advice such as sports to the scope of the stainless steel. The Health Council also has a wide range of tasks and provides advice that is more technical, specialist and scientific in nature. I do not think that it is appropriate to extend the work package to include advice on sport in the broadest sense of the subject of sport and to move. This would not do justice to the current opinions of either Council, nor would it do justice to the importance of the opinions on sport. In doing so, the advice of the Sports Council can be both strategically applicable and have a high degree of practical applicability. Diversity and nature do not relate to the nature of the opinions of both the Health and Society Council and the Health Council. That is why I believe that the establishment of the Sports Council as a permanent advisory body is a differentiated and complementary advisory system in the broad field of VWS. Another question from Mr. Lordema. He asked if I could give examples of an opinion that led to a significant shift of direction. I would like to mention two specific examples of this. The advice requested in the event field has really been used to review the event policy. This has resulted in the Dutch top sports strategy, which your Chamber was informed about by the end of 2020. And the advice on the organisation and financing of sport is really the basis for the deepening of the sport system. I informed the Chamber this week about its progress. Then there was a question from Mr Heerema. I was just checking to see if I have any more questions; that's okay. He asked: how will the Minister ensure that the Sports Council becomes somewhat more reluctant with activist lobbying? I think I just answered that question, so it's double. That's okay. Let me ask Mrs van der Laan whether I agree that the Sports Act can help as a framework for the work of the Sports Council. As the law now states, the Dutch Sports Council has a broad scope. You've been able to read that. The process with regard to the sports law that we go through with each other in the deepening battle is in itself separate from that. I can imagine that, depending on whether or not there will be a sports law, the outcome of this deepening has not yet been settled; we have not yet taken a decision on this, and certainly will also be a form of review framework for the Sports Council. Then Mr Van Nispen asked what is really going on with the Sports Act, what exactly is the purpose of the floor strike and when we can expect it. I sent your Chamber a letter this week describing the trial. I would like to give you a substantive analysis and discuss it with you at a later date.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-10.u49	I did see that letter. I had only hoped that the Minister would be able to explain a little more clearly what is the purpose of the deepening battle, why the law is actually waiting for it and how the Minister keeps up the momentum for something that the Chamber considers so important.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-10.u50	The Minister also thinks this is important. That is precisely why I sent you this week the letter on progress. I also think it is important that we do the flooring right. We also do it with a broad group and it is very important to take the field in what is the best way forward, hence I have also sent you this week a letter of formal notice that was more or less about progress. You can rest assured that I want to keep the progress in this and that I will make sure that we do not waste unnecessary time because I also think it is important to complete that deepening with each other and to draw a conclusion. More deeply than that, I would not go into that in this debate, which is about setting up the Sports Council. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll come back and answer one question about it... Oh, no, I'm sorry, I already did. Then a number of questions were asked about the composition of the council. That was also a question from Mr Heerema. I think continuity in the Sports Council is desirable, which is why it was not obvious to renew the Sports Council as a whole. This is because the legal anchoring of the council is explicitly building on a development that has been initiated with the sitting council members of the temporary council. That continuity was important to me. That is why the sitting council members of the temporary council are actually invited to respond to the vacancies. That is indeed a vacancy procedure, but it is a so-called reasoned procedure. This means opening up the vacancies and explicitly stating that there are reasonable candidates, namely the sitting members, one of whom stops. I'm sure it'll be replaced. I will go along with the question whether, given the scope of the advice of the Sports Council, we should not think very carefully about the composition of the Council. I think that was Mrs Westerveld's question too. We have now started this procedure and I would like to continue with that. That procedure has also been opened. But I will give you an undertaking to think about how we can ensure in the future that the Council does indeed have the right composition, also looking at the scope: what are the issues that can be addressed and are we well represented in this way? In addition, the Advisory Council also has the opportunity to deploy other experts. This is also an opportunity to develop with each other the participation and the input that we would like to organise in a broad sense. Perhaps that is so different from one subject to another that it is good to make use of it as well. I will explicitly take this with me when I talk to them about the way in which the Sports Council is set up. I will not wait for the Sports Council to be set up, but I will do so earlier.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-10.u51	As I indicated in my first term, I find this somewhat disappointing. I would have thought that we could have some influence here on making this Sports Council future-proof. I understand the argument of continuity, but I think nine out of ten is a very excessive continuity. If you look at the Sports Council website, you will see 10 council members, but also 40 or 50 advisors, all of whom are also connected to the Sports Council. I would put it among those advisors of the knowledge and expertise that Mrs Westerveld is asking for, find the least optimal option. I could also imagine that we would create more room for that in the Sports Council. And the moment a vacancy is created and it is already indicated that there are reasonable candidates, well, who is responding? Then you already know you barely stand a chance. So, if we are to have a say in this matter, I think that is what the Minister is asking us to do: what the composition of such a Sports Council should be like, then I am curious about two things. One. Do all council members, now that it is legally anchored, start their first term again from the day it is set? If not, I would very much like to have a schedule of resignations. I would also like to know the moments in which we in the Chamber can share our thoughts on the best possible interpretation of the Sports Council.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-10.u52	I think I can give a brief answer to that. It seems more than logical not to mark it as the first term, because they have already had a term. I think it is very healthy for all advisory councils to stick to the deadlines and to change the composition in this way. I can see possibilities there. I would like to come back to that in the second term, if necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-10.u53	Very well, thank you for this answer. I think a term is three or four years. I think some of these council members will be there from 2016. So they will be at the end of their term. They would therefore be eligible for re-appointment or non-appointment. As a Member of Parliament, I would very much like to know when these periods will end, now that this is not going to be the first time, so that we can see if there can actually be a change in this Sports Council this year, next year or the year after that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-10.u54	I can promise. That seems pretty logical to me. Excuse me, I can promise that immediately, because that is actually a pretty logical conclusion from the previous answer. Okay, then I'll continue with the questions. I've already had a few. It is an advantage if the printer does it again, but apparently things come out double. Actually, I'm getting into the block of governance and finance right now. I have just said something about the dividing line between the advisory role of the Sports Council and the existing Advisory Councils, such as the Health Council and the Health and Society Council. I have already answered that question. I did a good job of looking into that. There are similarities in that respect, but not very many. In my opinion, the Sports Council has an added value. I have also expressed this in the documents. They also asked about the coherence and how the consultative colleges can touch each other. To this end, we ensure that they are in frequent contact with each other and are able to coordinate with each other where necessary. Of course, it also helps that, when it comes to the back office, they share parts of the secretariat.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-10.u55	I agree with the Minister's reasoning, especially with regard to the substance. I have, of course, also read in the explanatory statement that it was stated at least that the working methods of the two other Advisory Councils do not correspond to the working methods of the Dutch Sports Council. I find that at least suggestive, because of course you could also coordinate it. But this is the way it works. I agree with the substantive argument. I would just like to zoom in on prevention, because that is what I explicitly mentioned. Prevention is already a task of one of the other Advisory Councils. Sport and exercise are very important in prevention. I'd like a response to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-10.u56	If sport prevails, then it is logical to apply for advice from the Sports Council. If prevention prevails, it is logical that the Health and Society Council should be the more appropriate advisory body for this purpose. I understand Mrs van der Laan's question, because we are talking about sport and movement and moving is also a form of prevention. Then there is the balance, where the question has to be put and whether we might also have a combined or a combination. could make a coherent question of advice. Because the combination of sport and movement in the form of prevention has been there since the new cabinet, so it is still quite fresh, and the Secretary of State and I are still working on it, I suggest that I include Mrs Van der Laan's question. I will come back to her separately at a later date on how I intend to deal with it in the future. You would also have asked how many consultative lectures have stopped or joined in the last 30 years. I have just indicated that this is not my responsibility, but I can enter into consultation with the Minister for Foreign Affairs she is the guardian of the framework law consultative committees and provide you with that overview. I think I just turned that in. The question by Mrs Westerveld, and in my view also by Mrs Maeijer, about the remuneration of the chairman and members of the Sports Council in comparison with that of the Health Council and the RVS. Two types of fees can be awarded to the Chairman and to the members of an Advisory College under the Law on Fees. This may be a fee per meeting or a fixed fee per month. At the time of the establishment of the Sports Council in 2016, the fees of both the Chair and the other members were set at a fee per meeting. This is laid down in the Dutch Sports Council's Compensation Decision. From 2018 onwards, the President of the Sports Council will be granted a fixed fee per month, indeed of 0.2 fte. That comes down to one day a week. In practice, it appeared that the involvement of the council members was needed more often than for the council meeting alone. For example, members are closely involved in the preparation of the Board's opinions, committees and other products, such as research and communication, representation of the Board during meetings, events and discussions, and in the management of the Board. The average wager of the council members is two days a month. In view of this increased time commitment, it has been decided to grant a fixed fee per month to council members as from 1 January 2021. So it's based on 0.1 fte. All changes have been made to the Dutch Sports Council. The Health & Society Council currently consists of a chairman and up to eight other members. Both the chairman and the other members of the RVS receive a flat fee per month. The President's remuneration is based on a working time factor of 18 hours at 36 hours a week, i.e. 0.4 fte. The remuneration of the other members amounts to 0.2 FTE. The Health Council currently consists of a chairman, a vice-president and 107 other members. The President and the Vice-President shall receive a flat-rate fee per month. The other members shall be entitled to a fee per meeting. You also asked questions about the level of the scaling-up. I do not think I have that answer here yet, but I think I remember that this is a fixed scale, so that was not a separate decision. But I'm gonna check that out. I'll get back to you in the second term. I'm almost there, Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Nispen spoke about the role of the connector and the bridge builder in the background and asked how I would solve this. I just said I'm going to talk about that. I'll send you on that. I don't want to oversend them either. They're independent. But at least I want to see to it. Then there is Mr Van Nispen's question as to why after four years it is considered whether the Sports Council is desirable as an advisory body. This bill aims at permanent anchoring. The proposal indeed aims to establish the Sports Council as a permanent advisory body. This is without prejudice to the importance of evaluation. The framework law requires an advisory college to draw up an evaluation report at least every fourth year. In this evaluation report, the consultative college should consider the task implementation. Then there is Mr Van Nispen's question about sports dependent on income. I'm sure it's an interesting question. I also find the discussion interesting, but I do not really want to comment on the substance of this debate. I would like to return to the debate we have at the end of June. There is no doubt that we will come back to this when it comes to financing sport policy. Mr President, I would like to make a transition, because there were indeed a number of questions which were substantive in nature. I would just like to point out that I have a committee debate on the broad policy on sport at the end of June. That's where the subjects come back. There was also a question about the support of volunteers and the event policy. My proposal is to have it discussed in detail and to have an exchange of views, and to keep it really in the spirit of the Sports Council in this debate. Then there is the appreciation of the amendment on item No. 8 by Mrs Westerveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-10.u57	The Westerveld amendment is No. 9.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-10.u58	Yes, no. 9. I fully understand the intention of the amendment. I'm gonna appoint members of the minister's office. In doing so, I naturally consider the question of what knowledge and expertise are needed. The Sports Council must have members with the right expertise to carry out the advisory task properly. I'll give the amendment judgment Chamber. There is another amendment, in part No. 8, about sport and movement and the terminology in article 2. This amendment, too, I give the House's verdict.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-10.u59	Fine. Mrs. Van der Laan and then we go to the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-10.u60	In my view, there is another question I would like to ask as to why movement is not explicitly included in the definition of the article of law.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-10.u61	The answer to that is that it is moving insight. That is why I also give the amendment judgment, Chamber. I think it would be a good idea to broaden it that way. It was estimated that the way in which it was written in the bill "sport" in the broadest sense of the word "sport" was already sufficiently broad, but I sympathise with the desire to add "moving" explicitly. That is why the amendment is called 'Room of Justice'. That's the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-10.u62	Very good. So much for the Minister's term. Is there a need for a second term among the high-level members? At least I hear one Member say yes. Mrs Maeijer has already said that she will refrain from taking part in the second term. I would like to give the floor to Mrs Inge van Dijk from the CDA group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-10.u63	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I believe that you can only change things if a broad group is willing to do so. Hence my demand for sport and exercise to be involved in decision-making much more often, even if it is not directly about sport and movement. Thank you for the Minister's commitment to this. I already referred to the app I received. As soon as the message "maybe a lockdown again" appears, you will see people involved in the sport immediately on the line: what is that going to mean and can we think about it at an early stage? As far as I am concerned, we let people continue to exercise as much as possible should anything happen in that vein at all. I have a motion. In my speech, I argued in favour of getting the fruit that hangs high. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas sufficient exercise and exercise is of great importance for health and well-being;]] [[believes that equal access to and movement to sport is an important factor for equality of opportunity;]] [[noting that children from low-income families exercise significantly less sports than children from wealthy families;]] [[noting that it is also apparent that people with disabilities exercise significantly less sports than those without disabilities;]] [[calls on the Government to inform the Dutch Sports Council of the wishes of the Chamber to take particular account of the promotion of equality of opportunity, with particular reference to the promotion of sports and movement by children from low-income families on the one hand and persons with disabilities on the other,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Inge van Dijk.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35983-10]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-10.u64	Does this mean that we are going to ask the Sports Council to take into account people with disabilities and those who do less to participate in sport? Am I hearing it that well?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-10.u65	I think it would be important for us to have the intention that the Sports Council should touch this chapter in the opinions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-10.u66	I think we all think this is extremely important, but I am a little hesitant if we are going to give the Sports Council all kinds of additional conditions. We said in the debate that the Sports Council is giving independent advice. I'm going to think very carefully about this motion later.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-10.u67	That is, of course, your right. I have just been thinking a lot about the question: where are the persistent, difficult problems that we would like to solve? I really see such an advisory board as an instrument for getting things moving. That is why we think it wise to put this down to the Advisory Council in one way or another: please, look at this explicitly and take it with you in your advice. If you give a broad opinion, I think there's nothing wrong with thinking about what it means for specific target groups.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-10.u68	Fine. Mrs Van der Laan has waived her speaking time. Then Mr Van Nispen of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-10.u69	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am not satisfied with the pace with which the sport-and-movement revolution is taking place in the Netherlands. That revolution is needed, and it is simply not happening enough. Together, we exchange every debate on how important sport and movement are for a healthy and sporty society in the future. I think the pace of change is really too slow. The Sports Council can play an important driving role in this. I am also thinking about the motion that has just been tabled by the CDA. I understand Mrs Westerveld's question. We know that people with lower incomes lag behind moving. We know that people with disabilities are left behind. In my view, we need, above all, very concrete proposals to encourage the government to change that. We have done this in the past. I also have a proposal of my own, as I had already announced. I believe that we can ask the Dutch Sports Council for advice on that particular issue of dependence on the proceeds from gambling. If there is another proposal coming up, then I understand it when the Minister says: they cannot do everything at once. That's true, but that's what we like to hear. I would appreciate it if this opinion would not be on the P.O. Box with us next month. But now the proposal. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Dutch sport currently relies to a large extent on contributions from lotteries and sponsorship agreements with gambling companies for its financing;]] [[proposes to the Chamber to ask the Dutch Sports Council for advice on whether and if so how Dutch sport can become less dependent on winnings from gaming and sponsorship of gaming companies,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Van Nispen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35983-11]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-10.u70	Finally. It is very good that we are now discussing this law and that the Dutch Sports Council is given a legal and permanent status. The SP therefore wholeheartedly supports this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-10.u71	That's really good. Then Mrs Westerveld from the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-10.u72	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for replying. It is good that we have had this debate here tonight. Three dots have stayed down for a while. I understand that the Minister says: let us move the point you are making about the Special Olympics to the next sports debate. I'd be fine with that. At the same time, I would like to know from her whether she would like to pay some extra attention in the short term to the events already planned. So it is not a question of substance, but I think we have a good example to set each other. Let us radiate together that sport and moving are extremely important for people with disabilities. Of course, we can do that by being there, by ensuring that volunteers are supported, and so on. Mr. Chairman. Then I would very much like to hear what the Minister is going to do with the earlier advice on moving at school. That advice was issued several years ago by the Sports Council, the Education Council and the Health Council. Mr Van Nispen also said that he thought that was a good opinion. My question to the Minister was: why don't you talk to your colleague from Education again about how much more we can do with sports and moving around at school? So I would like to hear whether she wants to go into this period. Then there is another point that remains open about the level of fees for consultative lectures. I do understand what the Minister is saying, namely that there have been agreements on this in a generic sense. However, I would like to make the point that I think that advisory colleges are getting quite a lot. I understand that we should not get to this minister, but I will think a little bit more about whether we should do something with this in a broader sense. In general, I am quite critical of money going to the public sector. I also think that we should be very careful about the remuneration of people in advisory colleges. Anyway, I get that I have to take that to another debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-10.u73	That's very good. Thank you. The last speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mr Rudmer Heerema of the VVD group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-10.u74	Mr. Chairman. I have one motion. But before I get to that motion, I've got something else. I am satisfied with the answers given by the Minister to the questions I have asked. But one answer specifically draws my attention. The Minister indicated that the Council's term of office will not be renewed in the transition from non-legally anchored to legally anchored. I started my term with the fact that today it is six years minus two days since the Sports Council was installed or started. In fact, if the Minister states that the term of office does not start again, but continues, Article 5.1 of the Framework Law provides that there is a four-year term of office which may be extended by a maximum of two years. That means that the council members who sit in the Council from the very beginning have their last day the day after tomorrow. That's right, I'll ask through the chairman. Mr. Chairman. Then there's the motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas a large proportion of the 55-plussers do not move sufficiently and as they age, they are becoming less and less compliant with the movement guidelines;]] [[Whereas insufficient exercise increases the risk of a variety of conditions and physical constraints;]] [[Whereas healthy and fit elderly people less often need social support;]] [[noting that none of the opinions of the Dutch Sports Council focused on encouraging the participation of older people in sport;]] [[calls on the Dutch Sports Council to carry out a study on promoting the participation of older people in sport, involving the establishment of an elderly sports and mobility fund and how to reduce or remove the distance from older people to sport,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Rudmer Heerema.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35983-12]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-10.u75	I give the floor to the Minister. We'll be outside in a few minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-10.u76	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr Heerema asked whether it was true that the re-appointment of the current members exceeded the legal deadline. I don't think so. Members may be appointed for a maximum of 12 years. The maximum term of six years, four plus two, which Mr Heerema just mentioned, is the maximum term of a temporary advisory college. None of the council members will be subject to this first term. That's right. Members may be reappointed twice for a period of four years in accordance with the Framework Act. I undertake to send you an overview of the terms of the council members. I understand the question behind the question. Then there is Mrs Westerveld's question about the advice on moving at school. I'm talking to the Secretary of State about the implementation of a rich school day. I suggest that you give me and my colleague some time to come up with a concrete proposal. I will try to get back to this in the committee debate on 29 June. Let me ask you about the level of the fees, on scale 18, on the specific fee. You said it was important to you. It's important to me, too. It's in accordance with the collective agreement, Empire. Mr. Chairman. The motion in part No. 10 gets judgment room. The motion in part No. I don't think 11 is up to me. I do not think it is up to me to give an appreciation of the motion in part No. 12.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-10.u77	Okay, here's the deal. The last word is for the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-10.u78	Yes, as the very last one, indeed. Mrs Westerveld was right to call attention to the Special Olympics. Friday, June 10th, I have, as you know, the Council of Ministers. I'm afraid I can't do it during the day. I'll take a look at the program. In any case, I will ensure that there is high-level replacement. Indeed, I fully agree with you that we should also pay attention to this and that we should be able to strengthen equality of opportunity with our attention. So here's the promise. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-10.u79	Thank you. So much for this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-10.u80	On Tuesday we shall vote on the motions and the two amendments. Thank you to the Minister for her presence this evening. I shall close the meeting on 18 May 2022.
