ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-17-tweedekamer-3.u1	We're gonna go on cheerful. The next item is the two-minute debate on Examinations in secondary education. A warm word of welcome to the Minister for Primary and Advanced Education. Thank you for joining us. There are three participants on the side of the Chamber. The first speaker is Mr Paul van Meenen of the D66 Group. Like everyone else, he has two minutes' speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-17-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr President, thank you very much. We've had a good debate. There's been a lot of work. We have had a wonderful technical briefing or beautiful, an interesting technical briefing. This has led my group to find that the CvTE is in the process of achieving additional rematches for certificate participants in 2023. We're happy about that. I am, of course, waiting for that to be tense and I really hope that will work out. There is one point left for me, and that is the thumb regulation. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Chamber at the beginning of 2021 the motion-Van Meenen c.s. has accepted the intention of giving sub-certificate candidates in vso and vavo access for at least two years to the thumb scheme (35570-VIII, No. 187);]] [[noting that this motion has not been carried out so far;]] [[Whereas, this year too, pupils in regular secondary education are entitled to this scheme and students in vso only if they obtain their diploma in this year of examination;]] [[Considering that this is undesirable because our most vulnerable students are in the vso, who have also been hit hard by the corona crisis over the past year and there is a part of the students who will take part of their exams this year but will not be graduating until next year;]] [[calls on the Government to give State examination candidates, including VS students, the right to the thumb regime in 2023, with retroactive application of a result from 2020, 2021 or 2022, if they are able to obtain their diploma in this way,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Meenen, Paul, Peters, De Hoop and Westerveld.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31289-510]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-17-tweedekamer-3.u3	I see Mr Van Meenen looking up. No worrys, my support for the motion stands and remains. But I would like to give a word to the Minister on behalf of Mr Peters of the CDA, who is not here. In the debate, the Minister was told loudly and clearly that he is against the thumb regulation. He wanted to tell me that it still stands. He's against thumb control, but he's in favour of equal treatment, and that's why he's in favour of the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-17-tweedekamer-3.u4	That's right. I accept, in principle, any argument that leads to my motion being supported, but it is indeed quite right what Mrs Paul says. That's how I understood it from Mr. Peters.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-17-tweedekamer-3.u5	I don't get it, but for the insiders, it'll all be clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-17-tweedekamer-3.u6	We like to keep it that way. You need to teach it a little...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-17-tweedekamer-3.u7	Keep it exclusive. Very good. Mrs Paul of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-17-tweedekamer-3.u8	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. For my part, not motions, but an appeal to the Minister to do everything in his power to ensure that next year we do not stand here again to adjust the examination requirements, the criteria. It is important that we can continue to implement it at full force, also next year. With this in mind, a repeated appeal to the Minister to do everything in his power to ensure the best possible use of the resources from the National Education Programme and to remove any obstacles that hinder schools from deploying those resources. In the end, we want to use it for the students who need it, whether it is about eliminating learning disadvantages or tackling mental and social problems. That is a repeated appeal and I do not have any motions on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-17-tweedekamer-3.u9	Thank you. Then the last speaker on the side of the Chamber. That is Mr De Hoop of the Group of the Party of Labour.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-17-tweedekamer-3.u10	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A motion for further special education. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the deadline for specifying additional provisions during the purchase days of written and oral examinations has already expired;]] [[Considering that VSO is currently preparing a black book because of the number of complaints about this also in relation to examiners who are not or only last minute informed;]] [[calls on the Government to monitor closely the implementation of the additional provisions in consultation with LBVSO this year,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members De Hoop and Van Meenen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31289-511]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-17-tweedekamer-3.u11	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-17-tweedekamer-3.u12	Mr President, thank you very much. I would particularly like to thank the members of the Chamber. I say this because we have had a very good debate, but also because in that debate, which was my first debate with the Chamber, we had a very good discussion on the issues that are now coming back to us. So I look back on that very positively. I also liked the process of exchanging views: just being transparent about the complexities I've seen and having the conversation about how we can solve them. We have both had that; Mr Van Meenen just referred to that. So thank you for that. First of all, I should like to comment on the re-launches and then on the thumb regulation and the motions. In recent weeks, so also since the debate we had on 26 January, we have looked together with the CVTE at the possibilities for re-launching part-certificate candidates in 2022. The Chamber has also been briefed on this. We have now added a number of efforts, for example a recruitment campaign. We shot a video for that yesterday; that goes online today. So we're going to launch a campaign to call on people to become examiners for state exams. I hope that many will respond to that. However, we have had to conclude that, even if this campaign is very successful, it will still be very difficult and thus impossible for 2022 to realise the rematches for sub-certificate candidates. That's because of a build-up of factors. The examiners are one of them, but we must also be able to record the results of these candidates, for example. And such an adjustment is not immediately possible in the short term either. We did say we'd see how to make that possible by 2023. That is clearly the wish of the Chamber, but also of mine. So the CVTE is working hard on that. As I announced in my letter yesterday, I am going to inform the Chamber about this before the summer. Then there's the thumb control. In the debate, and now again, I have heard very clearly what the Chamber's wish is. In the committee debate, we have outlined that there is a dilemma about the application of that thumb regulation. Mrs Paul just referred to it on behalf of Mr Peters, who said: is it wise or not? At the same time, it's a bit like monks, equal hoods and we'll see what we can do for this particular target group if those rematches don't work out. That is very much in Mr Van Meenen's motion on item No. 510. I'm happy about that, so I'd like to embrace that motion. I'm giving her judgment room. I would point out that we still need to look at how we can implement this properly and responsibly. This requires consultation with the vso-field, to look at the definition of the target group, and consultation with the vavo is needed, because, as Mr Van Meenen also knows, there are scrubbers there. So we need to figure that out, including the CVTE and DUO. Especially now that this motion has been tightened up in comparison with Mr Van Meenen's earlier motion, we really need to ensure that pupils who are entitled to the thumbing-off, who also get their results put into the system and a result has to be determined. So we'll come back to this. I would advise the Chamber to hold a debate on the exams before the summer, even before 2023. Then we can take these in there too and I can update the Chamber on that. But I embrace that motion, so judge Chamber. There is one motion on behalf of Mr De Hoop and Mr Van Meenen, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. He asks to closely monitor the implementation of the additional facilities in consultation with LBVSO this year. Let me say that it is very important that state examination candidates who have asked for additional provisions for an examination can also make use of them. And of course this is also a priority of the CvTE. Candidates must inform prior to the examination what facilities they need, such as an interpreter, so that this can be taken into account in planning. Both the CvTE and OCW have repeatedly asked LBVSO for insight into those concrete complaints to which reference is made. According to them, there are many, sometimes hundreds. But the image they put out is not yet consistent with the image we have. That's annoying, because if there's any complaints, you want to see them and solve them. So until now we have not seen these specific complaints. That does not mean that they are not there, but that we have the desire to be able to really help. That's a request. So if LBVSO is willing to provide insight into those concrete complaints from the grassroots, then we can also receive them and discuss them with the CvTE. I'd love to. And I'm even asking the CvTE to be extra sharp on this. But with that, I can certainly give the motion judgment Chamber. This brings me to the end of my contribution to the debate, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-17-tweedekamer-3.u13	Appreciate it. So much for this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-17-tweedekamer-3.u14	On Tuesday we will vote on both motions. Thank you to the Minister for his presence. I shall suspend a single moment until the next debate.
