ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-7.u1	The next item is the two-minute debate on the Foreign Affairs Council as a follow-up to the committee debate, which was completed not so long ago. I would like to welcome Members of Parliament and also the people sitting in the gallery, the people at home and, of course, the Minister. I would like to give the floor to the first speaker, Mr Jasper van Dijk, on behalf of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-7.u2	Mr. Chairman. I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the Netherlands has ratified the Non-Proliferation Treaty;]] [[noting that the Netherlands is not a signatory to the Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons (TPNW), but the meetings may nevertheless be of diplomatic added value for the Netherlands and the Dutch information position on the nuclear weapons issue;]] [[noting that NATO Member States Norway and Germany are also present as observers;]] [[calls on the Government to be present as an observer at the meeting of the Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons in Vienna from 21 to 23 June next,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that war crimes committed in Yemen remain unpunished, especially now that a UN investigation has ended in October 2021;]] [[calls on the Government to make efforts to resume UN investigation into war crimes in Yemen, specifically by taking an initiative to this end at the forthcoming UN General Assembly,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Jasper van Dijk and Mr Sjoerdsma.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-02-2497]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Jasper van Dijk and Mr Ceder.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-02-2498]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-7.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This cabinet is doing an incredible amount to support Ukraine. At the same time, the situation in Ukraine is really at a turning point. It is crucial that we do more. That is also what I would like to ask the cabinet: much more weapons, the absolute edges of the possible search, the Dutch aid, so to speak, double over the next few weeks, sell stuff through third parties, supply weapons through allies, virtually empty our own supplies. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that Ukraine has the maximum support and maximum pressure from Russia to end military aggression;]] [[noting that Ukraine has indicated that it needs more and heavier arms supplies in the very short term;]] [[Whereas Ukraine is fighting for its sovereignty and territorial integrity, but also for security and freedom in Europe;]] [[Whereas there should be no taboo on which weapons or weapons systems supply the Netherlands, on the purchase of arms from third parties or on the supply of weapons via other allies;]] [[calls on the Government to step up arms supplies and other forms of military support to Ukraine in the very near future where possible and also to urge allies to provide more and to deliver promised supplies as a matter of urgency,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Sjoerdsma, Mr Brekelmans, Mr Agnes Mulder, Mr Ceder and Mr Piri.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-02-2499]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-7.u4	As you've heard, I'm a co-host. I fully agree that we need to support Ukraine with everything we have in the house right now. At the same time, the debate has just shown that we have now entered into commitments in other countries, in Europe. Well, that's the context. I did not hear Mr Sjoerdsma say that, but it is important to add that context, because, of course, we also have to fulfil our obligations there.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-7.u5	Two things, indeed. International commitments made by the Netherlands must, of course, be respected; there is no doubt about that. On the second point, I cannot quote the Foreign Minister literally, because unfortunately my memory is not that good. I think he indicated that the chance of a ground war with our neighbouring countries is not super big at the moment and that there is also room to look at our stocks in that way. I very much share that. So I hope that the CDA and D66 share those two preconditions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-7.u6	In any case, this has been approved by Mrs Mulder. You have said that very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-7.u7	Good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-7.u8	Then Mr. Brekelmans.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-7.u9	I am also one of the co-signatories of Mr Sjoerdsma's motion. I also wholeheartedly support his plea to keep doing the maximum, but of course one of the prerequisites is that we do not overscramble our armed forces, in the sense that we also need equipment and ammunition for our own readiness and our practicability. That is also clear in the motion, but I would like to add that to the nuance. Furthermore, I very much agree with the underlying message.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-7.u10	I fully agree that Vladimir Putin is the culprit in this war and that it is terrible what he is doing. At the same time, I believe that Western countries are right to say that a direct confrontation with Russia, a war between NATO and Russia, must be avoided. This motion says there should be no taboo on arms deliveries. No taboo; that's all the weapons you can imagine. I would like to get an explanation of that, because they would also be fighter jets, for example, but I do not think NATO wants that at all. How am I supposed to read that in this motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-7.u11	I think that the motion is quite clear about that, because it states that there should be no taboos when it comes to the supply of weapons, either in the area of weapons systems or in the area of weapons components. No taboos means no taboos. There is a line which Mr Van Dijk is right to draw and which draws the Foreign Minister, but I think it draws the whole Chamber. That is the line that there should be no direct confrontation between NATO and Russia and that the threat of the Third World War should be avoided. The way to do that is to give Ukraine maximum military support in their fight against Russia, but not directly involved by NATO. That is actually exactly what this motion indicates.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-7.u12	But this disclaimer is not in the motion, so in that sense I think you are sending the government on a difficult mission if it is to carry out this motion literally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-7.u13	I do not share Mr Van Dijk's concern, to be quite honest. My group, and indeed several groups in this House, have said from very early in the conflict, even before Russia invaded, that we must support Ukraine with weapons so that it can defend itself. That is what we said before the invasion, and that is what we said after the invasion. The time to really put a big shovel on that is really now. I do not want to fail in any way what the cabinet has done, because when I look at what other countries are delivering, I see that the Netherlands is doing a great deal. But the bitter reality of the situation on the ground is that it is not enough to let Ukraine win and so much more is needed. That requires creativity and really looking up the edges of the possible, of course within our international obligations, I say to the CDA. But we need to look at the edges now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-7.u14	Clear. Thank you, Mr. Sjoerdsma. Then I would like to give the floor to Mr Brekelmans, who speaks on behalf of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-7.u15	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I do not have any motions this time because I was pleased with the commitments made by the Minister in the debate. We see that the war in Ukraine is an intensive sprint, but at the same time it is becoming a marathon. On the one hand, we come from one crucial stage in which there is a fierce struggle in the other, but on the other hand, unfortunately, the end is not yet in sight either. On the one hand, therefore, I support Mr Sjoerdsma's motion: we must continue to see how we can do the best we can to support Ukraine by military means. At the same time, however, we must also look further ahead, because this war is probably not over in a few months and we must also be able to provide military resources in the medium and longer term. That is why I also asked the Minister to pay attention to this and to look with his colleagues in Europe at how we can increase our European arms production, so that we can give Ukraine not only in the coming weeks, but also in the coming months and perhaps even years, the best possible starting position vis-à-vis Russia. Secondly, I would like to express my appreciation to the Minister for migration. Not only Ukraine is on the agenda, but also Egypt, the Horn of Africa and agreements with the Gulf States. These are all regions in which there is instability and large flows of refugees. And it is also a real task for our minister, with his contacts, to secure agreements on migration, so that we can get a better grip on this and do something structural about the asylum crisis that the Netherlands is now dealing with. I therefore also welcome the Minister's commitments.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-7.u16	Thank you for your contribution, Mr. Brekelmans. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. We will proceed immediately, smoothly, as Mr Hoekstra likes. I call the Minister for the Appreciation of Motions and the answer to the questions that may have been raised.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-7.u17	Thank you, Mr President. May I begin by saying that it is a pleasure for me, and by the way, a novum, to see you there in that chair? It can only be that it is no coincidence that the entire public gallery is full. This is also different during a two-minute debate. I appreciate that, too. Mr. Chairman. I am going to do it briefly, because that is what a two-minute debate is meant for. I will also refer to the debate we have had with each other on a number of issues. In the direction of Mr Van Dijk, I am going to repeat what I said yesterday afternoon, yesterday evening and just now, namely that I greatly appreciate his perseverance, but that, weighing everything up, I am doing the short, short version of the debate, the motion in part No. 2497 would be dissuaded because we do not think this is the gremium to bring closer to that goal that Van Dijk and I share, namely a nuclear-free world. So, with reference to the further argument in the debate, I would like to discourage that motion. The second motion by Mr Van Dijk, on item No. 2498, I would like to give a ruling to the Chamber, but with the comments I made in the debate. I have outlined that this is an extremely complex playing field and that the Netherlands has not managed to continue along the path of further research into war crimes. Moreover, I have outlined that the situation in the Human Rights Council is extremely complex. But since I do agree with the need to make an effort, I'm going to give the motion judgment chamber. We will also take action on it, but I want to be realistic about what the Netherlands can do at those specific meetings. Then, Mr President, the motion in part No. 2499 by Mr Sjoerdsma. I would like to repeat a few things that Mr Sjoerdsma himself said and which have also been reported in the event of interruption. I very much agree with the broader port of the motion, which is, by the way, embedded in the broader discussion we have with each other on how to help Ukraine in full width. This is about the military aspect, about sanctions, about humanitarian aid and so on. Here is the specific question of what more you can do in this very difficult phase of the war. The comments I would like to make are firstly about that word 'taboo'. I can't wear taboo on my own. By the way, that doesn't mean you're gonna do everything. You then start to weigh time and again what is wise and what brings the two goals that we have set ourselves closer. One goal was to equip Ukraine to maintain its own sovereignty. And two was to ensure that the conflict does not escalate further and does not lead to much greater misery in the region and possibly even further away. The second comment, which was also made by a few of the spokesmen, is that the cabinet really takes a positive stance here, but will also have to relate to readiness. At the same time, I really share the port of the motion. With these comments, we all know that they will then be part of the history of law. This brings me to the emphasis on the remarks made by Mr Brekelmans and the reaffirmation of the commitments I have just made to him. Period.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-7.u18	I see that Mr Van Dijk has a question on that last motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-7.u19	That's right, Mr. Chairman. I would also like to ask the Minister. Does he agree with me that there are now agreements with NATO allies about not delivering weapons that bring NATO countries directly into confrontation with Russia, for example fighter jets? Does the motion strike with that thought? I don't think so.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-7.u20	I've been very precise about that every time. That is why I referred all the way to the second main objective at the beginning of the war: to ensure that you do not, of course unintentionally, end up in a situation which could be the harbinger of a third world war. By the way, there has never been a hard agreement that certain matters are hors category for all countries. Countries make their own decisions. NATO does not act as an overarching gremium. Countries make that decision themselves. As far as fighter jets are concerned, they themselves have come to the conclusion that, for their own reasons, they should refrain from doing so. However, we have made a different type of agreement with NATO. It doesn't see it every time out front communicating about what you're planning to do, because that makes the Russians wiser than they should be.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-7.u21	Thanks and thanks also for the appreciations: once dissuaded, twice judgment Chamber. I see the public is leaving now that the Minister has replied. So the Minister has been listened to. That is a rarity and it is connected with the qualities of this minister, I suspect. This brings us to the end of this two-minute debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-7.u22	The motions tabled will be put to the vote tomorrow. I shall suspend the sitting until 5:05 p.m.
