ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-14.u1	Now that the Minister has also arrived, I will reopen the meeting. Thank you for joining us, Mr. Secretary. The next item is the continuation of the examination of the proposal for a law of the Member Kops amending the Housing Act 2014 in relation to the exception of the granting of priority to licence holders in housing on the grounds that they are authorised to operate; that is Chamber of Commerce 35914. I would, of course, like to welcome Mr Kops in Box K. He is once again supported by his collaborator, Mr Elmar Vlottes. Of course, once again a warm word of welcome to the Minister for Housing and Spatial Planning. He will, of course, act as an advisor to the Chamber when dealing with this bill. Full of anticipation beats our hearts. The first term of office took place on 31 May last. Today we are discussing the answer in the first term and the second period as a whole.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-14.u2	I am happy to give the floor to Mr Kops.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-14.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In short, the Act excepting priority holders means that it puts an end to the priority with which licence holders in the Netherlands are massively housed by many municipalities. In other words, it is a law that puts an end to the discrimination against the Dutch house-seekers. Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank Members for their input and the many questions they have asked. Thanks also directly to the members of the groups of FVD, PVV, JA21, BBB and Van Haga, who immediately expressed their support for this bill in the first term. We can say that we are having this debate at a very striking time. The fact that licence holders still have massive priority over housing is not new. In fact, that has been practice for years. But recently, the Minister for Housing said that he wants more homes to be given priority to licence holders, and that combined with increased influx of asylum seekers. We can say that this has caused such a great deal of fuss in the country, in my view, is that this subject is rightly more topical than ever. Recently, a poll of opinion.nl on Radio 1 showed that 81% of people do not want any more homes to be allocated with priority to licence holders. The Minister also said that he cannot prevent the displacement of the Dutch house seekers in the housing of licence holders. To fall into the house with the door: we can certainly prevent that, with the law before us. I shall now reply to the questions put by Members about this law. I do, as is customary in this house, on the basis of a number of blocks. I will mention this for you: block one is an introduction, block two is about the Housing Act 2014, block three is about the assignment, block four is about municipal policy and block five, finally, is about the scope of the proposal. Mr. Chairman. First a brief introduction, because the housing shortage in the Netherlands is huge. We are running out of about 300,000 homes and it is expected that this deficit will increase even further in the coming years, according to several studies. The waiting times for a social rental house are really huge. In at least a quarter of all municipalities the waiting period is more than seven years. That is only an average, because there are also outliers to fifteen years and to seventeen years; that is what Mr De Graaf was talking about. Mr Goudswaard, of JA21, even referred to a waiting period of 22 years. That's hopeless, you'd say. The consequences of not being able to get a roof over your head are poignant. Members have already said a great deal about this in their first term. I am not going to repeat that, of course, but I would like to mention a few examples. For example, Mrs Van der Plas mentioned the poignant example of a woman forced to sleep in her car because she can't get a house. Mr De Graaf mentioned a single woman with children, who moved from camping to camping, also because she couldn't get a house, although she did have an urgent statement. Mr Jansen spoke of 40,000 homeless people and 150,000 to 200,000 young people who are forced to live with their parents because they simply cannot start their lives in their own homes. But, Mr President, as has been said, licence holders are still given priority in the majority of the municipalities. So they pass through all those Dutch house seekers, who are on the waiting list for years, hopelessly long, hopelessly long. Authorisation holders shall be given priority by virtue of their status as the holder of the authorisation. That's a status that a Dutch house seeker doesn't have and will never get. That is precisely the discrimination against the Dutch house seeker. This bill will put an end to this: no more priority for licence holders. How does that work in practice? Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the next block: the Housing Act. It is the law that is being amended with this proposal. What exactly is the purpose of this Housing Act? Then we come to Article 2. It says: combating unbalanced and unjust effects of scarcity of housing. In concrete terms, that means that this law gives the local government a handle on housing scarcity. This involves, among other things, the allocation of that scarce living space, including giving priority. That scarcity is enormous; that is quite clear. So you could say that the greater the scarcity, the more up-to-date and important this Housing Act is, but also the more profound the consequences of the powers in that Housing Act are, including the possibility of giving priority. I'll get back to you on that. Mr. Chairman. Until July 2017, licence holders were a mandatory emergency category in the Housing Act. Municipalities were therefore obliged to always give priority to licence holders, but from July 2017 that mandatory urgency has been removed from the law and it is up to the municipalities themselves to decide whether or not to give priority to licence holders. The reason for this change was the increased inflow of the number of asylum seekers and the large number of licence holders to be accommodated. The aim of that then legislative amendment was to reduce the number of licence holders that are given priority, and thus to prevent the displacement of the Dutch house seeker. But then, Mr. Chairman, the result of that change of law. The result is nil. It simply did not work, because according to the latest figures, at least 91% of the municipalities still give priority to licence holders. Mrs Podt of D66 I see that Mr Boulakjar is now present on behalf of D66 has asked in her first term whether I think that these municipalities, which give priority, are making the wrong choices. The short answer is of course: yes, of course. Indeed, in this way, the intention of the 2017 legislative amendment, which was agreed by the Parliament by a majority, is not implemented. Exactly that has been the reason for the bill that is now before us. The repression of the Dutch house-seeker is a fact, and if it is up to the Minister that, in the light of his statements of recent times, it will only be worse and worse in the near future. In this respect, you can see this bill as repair legislation. Then I come to Mr Geurts' question. In this context, he talked about stimulating housing.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-14.u4	There is a question from Mr Boulakjar.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-14.u5	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-14.u6	Yes, I am here today. Mrs Podt replaced me a few weeks ago for a happy fact. Mr Kops is very quick to go over the reasons why municipalities have made that choice. One of my colleague Podt's questions was also: did the initiator have contact with municipalities about why they did not use this urgency? Why do you think municipalities didn't comply with that law?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-14.u7	That question has indeed already been asked by Mrs Podt in the first term. I can assure Members that in my speech I am really going to answer all the questions asked. So this is still on the agenda, absolutely. I would have stuck to Mr Geurts' question, which was about stimulating housing. He argued that by stimulating housing it should be possible in the long term for municipalities to remove the automatic emergency status for licence holders. First of all, the automatic urgency regime was already removed from the law in 2017, but it did not work. I will come back to that later in the task-block. Secondly, I think we all agree in this house that housing needs to be driven forward and that more needs to be built up. That is not the point at all. The legislative proposal before us is not about the addition of housing, but about the allocation of existing housing, which is so scarce at the moment. And that, so the allocation of those homes, is precisely so crucial in times of displacement. Because as Aedes, the dome of housing corporations, also points out: the more people get priority, the longer the waiting lists for regular house seekers. In fact, Aedes also says that this not only replaces regular house seekers, but also other emergency seekers. In fact, Aedes says that there has been some kind of competition between the different groups of emergency seekers. This means in practice that even if a Dutch house seeker has obtained an emergency status, he cannot still get a home with priority, because that house is simply not there. So this is how big the scarcity is right now. At the same time, the legislative proposal before us is so important. Mr. Chairman. In fact, I have already largely answered Mr Geurts' next question, namely that this bill would go against the purpose of the Housing Act to provide vulnerable groups with protection in the housing market. Mrs Podt also referred to this. So I say, no, the opposite is the case. As I said, not only regular house seekers are being displaced, but also other emergency seekers, creating a kind of competition between the different groups that Mr Geurts has just cited. So this bill equals that. This is precisely one of the objectives of the Housing Act, namely the distribution of housing in the event of scarcity and thus the prevention of displacement. We can say that the discrimination against not only the Dutch house seeker in general, but in particular the Dutch emergency seeker, as is now the practice, is contrary to the objectives of the Housing Act. So this law corrects that. In this context, Mrs Podt says that there can be no discrimination, because discrimination occurs only if there are similar cases and licence holders................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Then I say that building a waiting period for a house also for Dutch house seekers is not of course self-evident, quite the contrary. Dutch house seekers can also not register before they are 18, which can be useful given the practice, if you are talking for example about waiting periods of 20 to 22 years. So there is a contradiction here that I do not see. Here the image is created that Dutch house seekers would have it easy or easier, and I fight that. Then I come to the third block: the task. Mr Geurts and Mr Bishop asked questions about the assignment in relation to the urgency procedure. Others also talked about this. Mr Geurts then says that the bill hinders municipalities in fulfilling the task of housing permit holders. His question is then whether reception in sports halls and the like is undesirable as an alternative. This question has already been put in writing by Mr Geurts and has therefore already been answered in writing. Without repeating too much, the short answer is: yes, that is clearly undesirable. I therefore believe that the high influx of asylum seekers, together with the displacement of the Dutch house seeker, underline the need for this legislative proposal. Because discrimination against Dutch house-seekers is even more undesirable. That is discrimination against Dutch people who see that licence holders take precedence on the basis of a status that they, as a Dutchman, do not have and will never be able to obtain. Mr Bishop asked why the mission for municipalities was maintained. Why isn't it adapted immediately? As has often been done in the first term of the Chamber, a direct link is established between the assignment and the giving of priority. Those two get thrown into one pile each time. The Minister for Housing is also doing this, as is shown by his office juice that we received the day before yesterday. In other words, achieving the target would automatically mean priority, because priority would be needed to achieve that target. Well, that's the reasoning behind it. But, of course, the fact that there is a mission does not justify giving priority to a group of house seekers on the basis that they are holders of the authorisation, because that would put other house seekers at a disadvantage. Moreover, nowhere in the Housing Act does it say that this task must be achieved with priority. Articles 28 and 29, which deal specifically with this task, contain no mention of priority. In fact, in 2017 it was precisely the automatism with which licence holders were given priority in order to achieve that task precisely, that was the reason to remove that statutory priority from the law and thus to counter the displacement of the Dutch house seeker. So that has not worked in practice, hence the law before us. Mr. Chairman. Mr Geurts asked another question about early integration by giving priority to licence holders. This question has already been put in writing and has therefore been answered, but it is good to stress this in plenary. For Dutch people it is of course just as important to have a home, to have a family and to have a roof over your head. Then let's not take anything away from that. There is a contradiction here that is simply not there. I repeat, as Mr Jansen said, that 150,000 to 200,000 young people are forced to live with their parents because they cannot get a home, and so simply cannot start their lives; they cannot start a family. I would like to say that the reasons given by several Members of your Chamber in favour of maintaining priority for licence holders are no different for the Dutch house seeker. But they, the Dutch, are currently being put at a disadvantage and discriminated against. And this bill will put an end to that. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the fourth block: municipal freedom.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-14.u8	I have been listening to Mr Kops' speech for a long time. He's just making appearances, I'm telling you, Mr. Chairman, that all house seekers are being oppressed and pushed aside by status holders. I will repeat it to Mr Kops, and I ask him whether he thinks so with me. Currently, 9 out of 100 homes are used for status holders. In the last cabinet letter it was stated that this should go to 13 out of 100 homes. 87% is therefore available to the remaining inhabitants of the Netherlands. How can Mr Kops insist that the status holders push away the rest of the Dutch population when finding a roof?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-14.u9	I think Mr Geurts is exaggerating, because that is not how I said it, of course. I do not think that we should trivialize the problem we are dealing with today with with such figures, which would show that it would be very few homes to permit holders. Let's face it, the waiting lists are huge right now. People are really waiting for years for a place to live. It is those individual people who see that the licence holders are ahead. Then, of course, Mr Geurts can say that there are relatively few properties going to permit holders, but you will only be the one Dutch house seeker who is waiting for a house and sees a permit holder go first. That's what it's about. Mr. Chairman. I don't think of it myself. It is also Aedes who says very clearly: the more people get priority, the more displacement of regular house seekers. When I hear the Minister for Housing say that he wants more homes to be given priority to status holders, I find that worrying. There will then be more repression. In fact, there has even been a kind of competition between different types of emergency seekers. In practice, this means that even Dutch people who have received an urgent declaration of urgency are entitled to priority, albeit for medical reasons, death, homelessness, mention all those reasons but still cannot get a home on. And the congregation said unto them, There is no house for thee: go thou to the house of the homeless. That's really being said literally. Those are the situations in which the Dutch house seekers are in. And these people see at the same time that a marketing authorisation holder is ahead. That's unfair. That's discrimination. That's what this bill is doing.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-14.u10	Mr Kops blames me for playing the game, but I come up with factual figures. 87% is simply available to everyone outside status holders and Mr Kops continues to make it clear that if the status holders need to be housed, they will replace the rest. On the basis of the actual figures, this is simply not the case. I ask Mr Kops once again whether he agrees with me that these figures are correct and that 87% of the houses are simply available for the rest outside the status holders.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-14.u11	We're talking about a huge housing shortage and a huge scarcity. Mr Geurts says that 87% of the houses are available for the regular Dutch house seeker. Then you can say, which houses are these exactly? There's a shortage and there's little flow. Mr Geurts can say that 87% is available to the Dutch, but those homes will not be released. The Minister for Housing has said that freed homes should be allocated to licence holders. In my opinion, a few hours ago, the news was published by the NOS, and I have just read that the cabinet's plan is to create 7,500 homes, specifically for licence holders, within six weeks. I think a Dutchman who's been on the waiting list for years would very much like to have such a place. Of course, he also wants to start his life and start a family. That is why it is so unfair that not only properties are given priority to licence holders, but that, apparently, special housing is also being built.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-14.u12	Mr Kops is right to point out all these poignant cases. We all know him. They go through marrow and bone sometimes. Parliamentarians have taken an oath here, in which they promise to stand up for everyone who is in the Netherlands. What does Mr Kops say to someone who spends four or five years here in a distressing situation in an azc, who has the right to stay here and is entitled to a home? What does Mr Kops say to such a person or family?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-14.u13	Here's what I'd say. What this bill does exactly is draw one line for all the house seekers. Unfortunately, there's a shortage. That means you have to be on the waiting list for a social rental. And if person A should be on the waiting list, so should person B. That's what I'm saying. Everyone's waiting for a place.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-14.u14	People have fled war and violence. They have been through misery, put that misery behind them and want to build a new future in the Netherlands. Then they spend years in an azc, looking forward to a future in the Netherlands. And Mr Kops actually says: go in the back of the queue, get yourself a home. Maybe they're dealing with cottage milkers who abuse them because of their language disadvantage or their socio-economic position. That's unfair, isn't it, Mr. Kops?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-14.u15	That does not seem unfair to me. It's fair when everyone's waiting for a place to live. If you're going to lead an entire group and put another group at a disadvantage, that's discrimination. We're seeing license holders getting prepped. That is discrimination against the Dutch house seeker. I keep repeating it: if you tell people that we all have to wait neatly for a house, person A so also person B, then that's fair. That's what this bill does: draw a line for everyone. Mr. Chairman. I was at the block of municipal freedom. Mr Geurts says that the bill interferes with municipal policy freedom. Mr Bishop also spoke about restricting this freedom of policy. The formulation of urgency criteria is indeed up to the municipality, but, of course, subject to the legal constraints. Municipalities are already obliged to give priority to at least two groups: people who are in a shelter and caregivers or recipients. Municipal freedom is not absolute, but conditional. That's the way it is with legislation. Municipalities therefore have freedom of policy, but of course within legal frameworks. The bill is in line with this legal conditionality. Moreover, given the tight housing market, in recent years there has been a very frequent call from the Chamber for more direction, more direction on the housing market and more direction on housing. We even have another Minister for Housing. You can see this bill perfectly as part of that national direction. Mr Bishop asks: why was there a choice to restrict the policy freedom of municipalities? The simple answer is: because the 2017 law amendment did not work. In addition, I would like to say that laws are made, discussed and adopted daily in this house, which then apply to everyone, including all levels of government. That is how the rule of law is set up. That's the hierarchy of standards. By way of comparison, municipalities are responsible for the construction of housing, but in recent years far too little has been done about this. The result is that the Empire will intervene: we have a Minister for Housing, there is more direction. That's not crazy, but it makes perfect sense. That's how you can see the bill we're talking about today. Mr Geurts said that municipalities should retain the freedom to designate categories of urgency as they see fit. As mentioned above, this statutory priority was already removed from the law in 2017, but still gives priority to the vast majority of municipalities. Then you wonder why they do that. They themselves state that they do so in order to achieve the goal. So the task forces them to do so. Not formally, because it's in the Housing Act, but it's in material. So we are talking about giving priority as a means of achieving the goals. I note, then, that the mandate actually restricts municipal policy freedom. In her speech, Mrs Podt asked Mr Boulakjar whether I had spoken to local directors and what reactions I had. Of course, I talk to a lot of people, including local administrators. The reactions of course vary: one finds this, the other thinks so. One is in favour of maintaining priority for licence holders and the other is against it. That's the way it is. However, whatever I hear from the local directors and also from the members of the first term, the fundamental position remains that priority should be put to an end for licence holders and thus an end to discrimination against the Dutch house-seeker. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Podt asked a question in writing. She felt that municipalities would not need this bill. I replied in writing that this is not about the needs of municipalities, but about the needs of house seekers. Mrs Podt mentioned this in her first term as a false contradiction, because the need of local government would automatically be the need of the seeker. But, of course, it is not that simple in practice. It is often enough that local representatives make different decisions than local government would like. That's how it works. In this house too, motions or other proposals are regularly adopted that interfere with government policy, correct it or whatever you want to call it. Especially given the fact that municipalities have built far too few houses in recent years and the Dutch house seekers are on the waiting list longer and longer, it is not so obvious that the needs of the population and government are always the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-14.u16	This is a little too easy. I meet someone once in a while. 90% of the municipalities. Mr Kops says: one finds this and the other finds it. In the municipalities are members of the municipal council, democratically elected representatives of the people who listen carefully to the people. I would like to ask Mr Kops if he knows how many motions have been tabled by the municipal councils to reverse the urgency, the priority of status holders.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-14.u17	Yeah, I know. In doing so, I note that the local parliament has a desire to effectively abolish priority for licence holders, but this is not the case in practice. Why not? That is because the municipalities, as they themselves state, have a mission. The priority given to the municipalities is a means of fulfilling the mission, while in fact they may want to get rid of that priority. That is precisely what we are talking about here tonight. This legislative proposal then draws one line: no more priority for licence holders on the grounds that they are authorised.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-14.u18	Mr. Kops is turning it around. In fact, there are rarely any motions to argue exactly that. Mr Kops is wrong. I would like to come back to the question of whether Mr Kops has discussed this with municipalities, with representatives of the people in the municipal councils and with aldermen. I don't want him to say easily: "I've talked to him and that one. And one finds this, and the other finds it." Something more specific than that!
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-14.u19	Firstly, I would like to say that, of course, I do not need to share my complete agenda with Mr Boulakjar. Anyway... Secondly, the last director I spoke about this is the alderman from Enschede. I talked to him about this the other day. The striking thing was that he told me that Enschede has just achieved the goal in recent years. That alderman told me that giving priority in that congregation was not even necessary. So that is why it is in favour of simply abolishing that priority. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the fifth block, the scope of the bill. Mr Jansen asked whether this law was sufficiently exhaustive and whether municipalities could not circumvent the law by giving licence holders categorical priority. At present, authorisation holders in the majority of municipalities are still given priority on the basis that they are licence holders. Exactly that puts an end to this law. So the law is certainly exhausting enough. If, after the law has entered into force, municipalities continue to give categorical priority to licence holders, the conclusion is simple. Then they act contrary to this law and it is up to province and/or minister to intervene. Mr De Graaf asked about flex houses and other fast housing projects that were or are not being carried out specifically for asylum seekers. Mr Geurts, Mr De Groot and Mr Bishop also discussed this. Mr De Graaf specifically asked whether this bill would also apply to this type of emergency accommodation. The short answer is yes. This bill is not about the construction of houses, as I said, but about the allocation of homes, including the allocation of flex houses. Mr Jansen asked, as I said earlier, whether the law is sufficiently exhaustive. Well, on that point I would like to say that I would not find it exhaustive enough to come up with a very good proposal in my view and then apply all kinds of exceptions and reservations. Moreover, also the Dutch, the Dutch house seekers who are now literally living on the street, cannot get a home. They can't go anywhere and would of course be thrilled with a flex house. They would also be thrilled with a flex house or something, given the huge scarcity. That is why, of course, these homes must also be allocated in a non-discriminatory manner. If temporary housing means flex housing, I would like to point out that it would mean that if they are housed in licence holders, they would eventually have to transfer to regular living space. And yes, that means that this bill is still necessary. Mr President, I have already come to a conclusion. I hope I have answered all Members' questions adequately. Finally, I would like to say that this is a legislative proposal which is very good for the Dutch house seekers, who have been on the waiting list for many years now, hopelessly long, hopelessly long, while licence holders are still ahead. That's unfair. That is discrimination against the Dutch house-seekers. Mr De Graaf said aptly "the best ideas fit on the side of a beer skin" and this effective proposal immediately puts an end to it. I am therefore counting on support from the Chamber. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-14.u20	Thank you. Then there is a single question on the part of the Chamber. I am happy to give the floor to Mr Geurts.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-14.u21	Mr Kops indicated that he would answer all the questions, but I checked. There's one more question I want to ask you. I indicated that the CDA believes that status holders should be part of Dutch society as soon as possible in order to promote integration and integration. My question was whether the initiator shared this view and I did not hear an answer to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-14.u22	Mr Geurts, of course, asks this question in relation to the accommodation of licence holders. It implies that licence holders should be given priority for integration. That is, as I say, at the expense of the regular house seekers. There will be repression. The fact remains that this priority should be abolished for licence holders. It's as simple as that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-14.u23	I note that this is a difficult question for Mr Kops, because he is not answering my clear question. The question is quite clear: does the initiator agree with me that status holders should be part of Dutch society as soon as possible in order to promote integration and integration? Does the initiator agree with me that his legislation is going to hinder that? The initiator will ensure that status holders get into the WW faster and that they do not integrate into our society.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-14.u24	No, I'm fighting that. In fact, this sets up licence holders and Dutch house seekers against each other, because the result of what Mr Geurts proposes is that Dutch house seekers are displaced. That's what this bill is about. It's about the allocation of homes. It is not about integration or whatever, but about the allocation of housing. That's unfair. All kinds of arguments about integration, which Mr Geurts is talking about, do not justify the priority that licence holders still have.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-14.u25	I note that Mr Kops is still in a negative phase. With his legislative proposal, he ensures that status holders do not settle in and integrate, but end up in the WW. I wonder if this is what the PVV has intended with the initiative proposal that it has put forward here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-14.u26	I think that's a little faint. This is a very good bill, which puts an end to the discrimination against Dutch house-seekers. It literally draws a line between house seekers. There's scarcity and there's waiting lists. Everyone has to wait neatly for an apartment. In fact, that's all this bill says. It puts an end to the discrimination against Dutch house-seekers. You are all bringing up arguments, such as integration, but I am standing here saying it again and again to end the discrimination against Dutch house-seekers.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-14.u27	In my contribution in the first term to the petitioner, Mr Kops, I asked how he looked at the idea of letting the status holders who are now stuck in azc's live in flex houses. He has just said something about this and a number of questions have been asked. The VVD also sees that other emergency groups could be housed in these flex homes, but by adopting this bill, it will not be possible to place status holders in flex homes before they are eligible for a social rental home after they have been on the waiting list. So I ask Mr Kops once again whether I have understood correctly. Are you actually saying that this priority should be removed, but I am also not offering a solution to the status holders who are now stuck in azc's?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-14.u28	This bill is actually very simple. The scarcity is so great that we are indeed talking about and working on flex houses. I think that any house seeker who now has no roof over his head would be very happy with that, including the Dutch house seeker. If those flex housings are allocated under the Housing Act 2014, this bill should be implemented in a non-discriminatory manner, i.e. without priority for licence holders on the basis that they are authorised to do so. That's the consequence. Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-14.u29	I have a supplementary question on this. The VVD is perhaps best for the idea of abolishing that priority. Alone, not without a solution. The answer given by Mr Kops at the moment is: this also applies to flex houses, so leave the status holders in the azc's just sitting there. But that is not a solution to the problem we have in the Netherlands, is it? We have to find a solution, don't we? That is precisely why it is necessary for them to be able to live in flex houses, but together with other emergency seekers, because that is what the VVD is for.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-14.u30	Mr De Groot also mentioned this in his first term. What comes to mind now... Mr De Groot wants to make these flex houses available to marketing authorisation holders, with priority. I understand that from his answers. As I have made clear, I do not think so at all. But Members of your Chamber are, of course, free to table amendments to a legislative proposal, even if I do not agree with its content. Mr De Groot can do that. Once again, even if I disagree with the substance of the matter, he can do so. And frankly, after the first-term examination, I was under the impression that Mr De Groot would do that, that he would come forward with an amendment. I have to say, I haven't seen it so far. Maybe it's still coming from the VVD side. Then we can talk about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-14.u31	We are not aware of an amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-14.u32	Okay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-14.u33	So much for Mr Kops' term. Then I would like to give the floor to the Minister for his advice. I would like to point out that you also sent us a letter last Monday, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-14.u34	Thank you. A number of questions were asked in the first period. I think it's okay to follow up on those questions. Finally, I will come up with the cabinet opinion on the present initiative proposal. First of all, the question of the VVD and the CDA what we can do to increase the production of flex houses. I would stress that it is incredibly important right now to build more flex houses. We had foreseen in the National Housing and Construction Agenda that we wanted to build 5,000 flex houses this year, 10,000 next year and 15,000 the following year. This has everything to do with the need to grow as quickly as possible to over 100,000 homes per year, 900,000 to 2030. The fastest way to increase housing production is through flex construction and through transformation. Those are just the fastest ways. This means that we have a target of 5,000, 10,000 and 15,000. What we are seeing now is that the scarcity, particularly in social housing, is incredibly high at the moment. That is why we are doing everything we can to speed up flex construction. For this, the cabinet has raised 100 million from the WBI from 2026 to this year, to build more flex houses. For this purpose, the cabinet has created a task force flexbouw or task force acceleration temporary housing with experienced forces in it, people who can support municipalities in scouting locations, in preparing the procedure, so helping really practically to go through the procedures so that it goes faster, and in making arrangements with flexbouwers. We are really doing everything we can to speed up flex construction. Once again, that is really the only way to speed up real housing in the very short term. I have another meeting tomorrow with flex builders and with the VNG to see what else we can do to speed up flex construction and also to find locations. I would like to underline that, of course, that helps status holders. Sure. And with this, it also helps to ensure that the azc's are better able to receive asylum seekers. Of course it is. In today's azc's there are currently about 40,000 people, almost 15,000 of whom have status holders. If we are able to accommodate the status holders, that means that we do not really need all those emergency locations that are being set up here and there in the country. In short, housing status holders is extremely important, but I would also stress that there are other groups that are waiting for housing as a matter of urgency. So the flex construction we're accelerating doesn't only benefit status holders. It benefits all those who are looking for a living space with great urgency. Mr Bishop asks: is it also possible to create independent living space?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-14.u35	On this point perhaps, Mr Peter de Groot.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-14.u36	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have another question for the Minister. As I said in my first term, 105 million had already been arranged for this year by means of an amendment tabled by Mr Koerhuis, adopted here by 113 votes in the Chamber. There'll be another $100 million. It looks very much like a top-down approach, which is being looked at and said: we have the money and we have a task force, but now we have some locations. Wouldn't it be better to turn it around and say: we've been looking at it for six months, because the amendment's been there for a while and the money's been there for a while, and those locations are a problem? Shouldn't we turn around or should I ask the Minister a question that is more about chicken and egg? Where's the speed? That's actually the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-14.u37	It is indeed very chicken-eggy. That's exactly what I'm talking about tomorrow. What I see is that there are locations that are considered appropriate by municipalities. However, there are more often locations that are considered appropriate by the housing corporations, for example, but not yet by "we need to meet for a little longer" municipalities. That makes the housing corporation say: I can place that order with that builder, but I'm not going to do that until I have a place to put those things; otherwise I'm paying for a property that I can't exploit and for which I don't get rent revenue, and we're not a charitable institution again. I get that. The builder says: I know there's a lot of demand from housing corporations, because they really want me to build flex, but I'm not going to turn that factory up until I'm sure those things will be taken away. There are also municipalities that say: we would very much like to build flex, but then there is no corporation to manage that thing. And yes, the municipality is not a corporation. In short: there are a lot of chicken egg elements in this whole chain. We need to get rid of that. That's exactly my conversation tomorrow. I actually want to discuss with those builders what guarantees they need, so that they dare to scale up their factory capacity to the maximum. That's one element. Secondly, I will ask municipalities what guarantee they need to say: here you have that part of the land. The question to the housing corporation is: what do you need to guarantee to dare to order as much as possible and to take maximum management? My impression is that it's a bit of everything. I think we should do the questionarticulation together. Municipalities and corporations must do so together in the direction of the factories, so that they can scale up to the maximum. In addition, I think that we should agree with municipalities: if they guarantee that there will always be a place somewhere to put down that flexible shell that we want to build, then there need not be so many financial guarantees, because these flex houses, which are sometimes called "container houses," now have the quality of a normal home. They can last at least 60, 70, 80 years. So if you can only exploit them for fifteen years and you have to write them off completely during that period, then the business case is obviously in red. So what you have to try to do is say: no, you can also use them after that, maybe you have to adjust them a little, fix them up and so on. If you can do that and you can provide that certainty, then there is not so much financial guarantees to be offered. In short, we have to run that engine. Because I think your observation is correct: it is not fast enough at the moment, there is too much hesitation, when everyone actually wants it. We have to get through that. That is precisely the reason why this task force has started this task, with 100 million, which is a considerable sum of money, especially on top of the funds previously made available. Well, you'd think it'd work anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-14.u38	This is a committee debate next week. I do not think that this subject is one-to-one in line with the subject of this evening.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-14.u39	You are the chairman and therefore the boss, so if you draw this conclusion, I will, of course, add myself to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-14.u40	That's the spirit.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-14.u41	It is a common theme that we like to talk about with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-14.u42	That's what I was afraid of.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-14.u43	"But if you call outside the broadcast, that's what you're talking about. Yeah, clear. By the way, I think it has everything to do with the problem; perhaps not so much with the legislative proposal but with the problem. But I'll get to that in a minute. The selfless living space, can't that be a solution? Yeah, that could be a solution. Of course, that's what's being done. On the contrary, we are trying to make full use of intermediate facilities, and that is de facto, often at least, a self-contained living space with several rooms and then, for example, one sanitary facility. In addition, we encourage the creation of independent housing through changes in the housing valuation system, which makes it more lucrative to want to build and exploit these things. So I guess that all helps. Mr. De Graaf asks when the cabinet draws the conclusion that this situation with regard to asylum and status holders is not sustainable. Well, I think we've already come to the conclusion. We have set up this MCCb structure for a reason, to ensure that we are now really speeding up the relocation of those almost 15,000 asylum holders. In the last few weeks and months, we have been in a situation where my highly esteemed colleague Eric van der Burg was actually calling mayors every day asking: could an emergency care be realized with you? Could an extra azc be realized with you? That is a very, very, very undesirable situation for that particular municipality, but also for Eric van der Burg, because there is more work to be done than that. So we need to solve this crisis. If you mean that we should also reduce the influx, then of course you know the coalition agreement. Measures have been taken in a balanced manner, not only with regard to reception but also with regard to influx. However, if we are going to have that debate, I think that your President is right to say that this is not the subject of this evening, because we should have invited Eric van der Burg. This is not a migration debate. If you're asking if we're looking at that side, the answer is yes. That's also Eric van der Burg's job.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-14.u44	In the first period it was also very briefly about this. This problem is of course multidimensional, but it has a very focused, beautiful and simple solution. As I said at the time, the simplest solutions are short. That is the way Mr Kops has put it. But of course this includes the following. That is actually what this cabinet, with the help of all the press, whether or not subsidised, usually carries out that kind of hypnosis message to the population, namely that there is only a problem of transit. Just looking at the influx is not enough, of course, because if you only look at the influx, according to the coalition chord, then you indeed look at the influx and then you do nothing. Then all you have to do is tell the people: we're looking at the flow, and we're doing something about it. Then there will be a cruise ship at Velsen-Noord. It's nice to live around there. I'll give it to you to do. I already have a great deal of compassion with the residents there. So looking at the influx is not enough, I say to the cabinet and to this minister. Of course, Mr Van der Burg should perhaps be here, walking out of the fire. But when is the influx going to stop instead of just being looked at?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-14.u45	I don't think the influx is gonna stop, but we're gonna have to get a better grip on migration. You know the passages of the coalition agreement. They're about more than watching. They are about getting a better grip on migration, on all the elements of migration: asylum migration, on irregular migration at the borders of Europe and on labour migration. We will have to organise more migration with each other, but that is not the subject of this debate. The interesting thing is that you are talking about this initiative law in terms of solving a problem, but that is, of course, exactly what this initiative proposal did not do. Most laws do, by the way. Laws are usually meant to solve a problem. But what this law is actually doing is a pretty big problem that we have with each other, namely overcrowded asylum shelters, sticking out of the azc's, making it even bigger. This law leaves the municipal tasks untouched. The city's just holding a job. That's an obligation under the Housing Act. Only, the municipality may no longer grant urgency to status holders. That's not possible. The 15,000 people currently in the asylum shelter would then have to wait a number of years for social housing. That would be the solution under this initiative law. By that time, of course, there will be many more status holders in the shelter. We already have too many people in the shelter. We certainly have too many status holders in the shelter. As a result, we have a shortage of shelters, and that is why we have to create shelters every time. So you say: we are actually okay with that, because there will be no more urgency for status holders. This actually creates the situation that the already overcrowded shelter is getting much fuller and we should open a new azc every week, or twice a week, to keep the shelter intact. I think that makes an already big problem a completely insoluble problem. That's pretty unique. It is quite unique that a legislative proposal makes an already big problem really insoluble. That's what the Council of State says. The Council of State is not necessarily very complimentary. The Council of State says: "The Section has serious objections to the proposed initiative and recommends that the proposal should not be considered." That's not a compliment from the Council of State. So I think we need to face up to this big issue. That indeed has a lot of dimensions. It has an inflow side and indeed a throughflow side. It's incredibly complicated to solve that. Yet we will have to do it, however difficult it may be, but not with a law that actually makes the solution impossible.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-14.u46	There's the next hypnosis. I've heard three now. The second hypnosis of the evening is saying "grip on migration," "grip on migration," "grip on migration" and then doing nothing. The third hypnosis is saying: the problem lies with the PVV's bill and not with my solution. There is, of course, no such solution from the government. The fourth and final hypnosis lies in the fact that migration in the Minister's story between the lines is presented as something that is just organic: "people come into the Netherlands." And then it's about "watching migration." It's all neurolinguistic programming techniques that the minister applies. That is what the whole cabinet is doing, soothing the population and also the controlling people here in the Chamber, in which this government has a majority. Those people are gonna talk to the government out of fear of their mayor jobs. 'Cause they're gonna be out of work after this, and they can't get that job that Rutte might put them in.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-14.u47	Are you going to ask a question?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-14.u48	Based on this kind of nlp techniques keep the population under hypnosis and completely reverse the case... This law relieves the Housing Act. That's a fact. The Minister turns that around. I don't want the Minister to do that. One time not complimenting the Council of State is perhaps a compliment, because the Council of State is part of the hypnosis. So I would say to the Minister: turn your argument around, support this law and do not let the people fall into your hypnosis.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-14.u49	That was an argument that was hard to tie a rope to. But let me get some elements out of it. The Council of State, I say very euphemistically, is not only not complimentary, but rather rather devastating. He says "don't go through with this bill" and so "don't go through with it." That is, I think, a fairly clear opinion from the Council of State. That's one. Why does the Council of State say that? Because this bill prohibits the possibility of urgency. This prohibits municipalities from acting in practice in the task description, which is still left intact in the same law. That makes the bill simply an impossible task for municipalities. If you give an impossible assignment to municipalities, on top of all the tasks they already have, assume that that task is simply no longer being carried out. If that task is no longer performed, then there is no outflow from azc's. That is separate from the inflow side, because that too needs to be worked on. It's about the outflow side. No outflow from azc's means that every week, twice I think, we should open a new azc. I do not really know any municipality or political party that is enthusiastic about this. In short, my point is: most of the laws we deal with here in this house, say all, have at least the aim of solving a problem. I can only see this law as a law that makes it impossible to solve an already big problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-14.u50	I hear the Minister all raising objections to this law, which is, by the way, very good. There would be 15,000 people trapped in azc's all going somewhere. I am actually looking more and more surprised at the asylum debate of recent weeks in particular. A few weeks ago, we started this debate. Now, in the meantime, we're in a national crisis and all that stuff. It's only gonna get worse. If I speak for myself at least: everything I do here, I do for the Dutch people. When I hear the minister speak, I don't get that feeling at all. The minister is busy with people in azc's from around the world, while it should be his job to stand up for the Dutch people. This morning there was a new report from Atlas Research, showing that there are not 300,000, but 400,000 homes too few. That's about hundreds of thousands of young people who can't start their lives. That's about 60,000 to 80,000 people who are forced to live on campsites or recreational parks. That's about 40,000 homeless people. These are very, very poignant problems, and the Minister is talking about us having to deal with the asylum seekers. No, we have to do something with the Dutch. How can he sleep tonight with the idea that he stood here arguing against the interests of the Dutch?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-14.u51	This type of statement is, of course, very toxic and polarizing. First of all, you say do something for "the Dutch." Status holders are Dutch. They came here and had to tell their flight story. That flight story has been assessed and has led to a legitimate decision to grant a permit to stay here in the Netherlands. That makes them Dutch. Wherever they came from, wherever they were born, whatever their lives were for this: from the moment they received a permit, they are Dutch. That's one. Putting these groups against each other is polarizing. Two. Yeah, we're having a terrific housing shortage. In recent years we have built far too few homes. That's why we have an incredibly large housing shortage. Scarce always leads to friction. That's why we need to solve this scarcity. Everything I do, all day long, is about building more homes: building more affordable homes with more pace and more direction. That is my job, every day, for anyone who is entitled to a home in the Netherlands: for anyone who is entitled to a home in the Netherlands. This is putting groups against each other and, in fact, the reproach of scarcity, because that is how you say that it is also out of place for people who can really do nothing about this scarcity, that is, people who have just been granted a status. Surely they were not responsible for the fact that too few houses have been built in the past period? So you can't blame them, can you? That's toxic, that's polarizing; we shouldn't do that. What we need to do is seize all the opportunities to build more homes and prevent as much displacement as we can. That's what we have to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-14.u52	First of all, not everyone with a status is a Dutchman. Legally, that only happens after naturalisation. So that in itself is wrong. But second: of course there are groups in the world and of course people are opposite each other. The Minister would then be working on the idea that everyone should be able to get a place to live. No, he is responsible for housing and providing housing to Dutch people. Those are very clear groups. That's why we have countries in the world. This is not about turning people against each other; it is about his duty to the people he should represent. That doesn't have anything to do with polarization, does it? That has to do with what we've been elected to do here, doesn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-14.u53	Under the law, status holders are simply entitled to a home. So they can also be seen as Dutch, who are also entitled to a home. My constitutional mandate is in Article 22 of the Constitution: to do everything in the Cabinet's power to provide adequate housing for all those entitled to it. So it says: for everyone who is entitled to it. So putting groups against each other, yeah, that's polarizing, that's toxic. Especially in a time of enormous scarcity, I think that is really reproachable as well. We shouldn't do that. What we have to do is seize all the opportunities to build as many homes as possible, because we need a lot of affordable homes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-14.u54	The minister just said that I would have a reproach on the people who are in the azc's, but that's not true at all. I have a complaint to make to this minister. This Minister is committed to solving the housing problem for the whole world. His colleague Van der Burg also said: there is no limit to immigration, except the capacity we have to offer people a place. That's about what he said. The consequence is that when tens of thousands of people come here, they all have to be housed. Of course it's about groups facing each other. Of course; the world is like this. The world is made up of groups. The Dutch are such a group. They're staying here in this country, they're from this country. We have a duty to them. The obligation of housing that we have on the basis of the Constitution applies to those people. There can be all kinds of legal explanations, such as: anyone who happens to walk into this country has a right to do so. Doesn't the minister himself feel how crooked that is? Doesn't the Minister feel that someone who came from here and was born here is more entitled to a home in the Netherlands than anyone else in the world?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-14.u55	I do not know if you intend to cut a video of this, but that is precisely why I would like to say: if you cut a video of it, please cut in this answer. After all, I have said that it is my job to fulfil the constitutional duty of the cabinet to provide adequate housing for all those entitled to it. So for everyone who is entitled to it: for people who are born here and for people who have become Dutch, who are born somewhere else, but who have been shown by a status, a permit, that they are allowed to be here and therefore also entitled to housing. I'm working every day for everyone. We have 900,000 homes to build until 2030 and want to move towards the 100,000 as soon as possible. We need to build more affordable homes for everyone with more speed and with more direction. That's my job.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-14.u56	No, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-14.u57	Mr President, a personal fact.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-14.u58	No, I've got you three times...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-14.u59	It's about making movies and stuff. Those are just lame remarks. It's not about that at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-14.u60	We've been here before; hence.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-14.u61	Excuse me. Excuse me?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-14.u62	I've been there before, and it's happened to me before. So that's why.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-14.u63	It's not about making movies at all. It's about the fact that we're all standing here to solve problems in this country. First of all, this is always for the Dutch.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-14.u64	No, we're not gonna start another interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-14.u65	But this is just... okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-14.u66	I've given you an opportunity to make a personal statement.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-14.u67	I think there's a weird twist in the Minister's speech. Mr Kops's proposal is that there should be no priority for holders of status in the housing market. That is quite a problem, because people are waiting a long time and they see people with status creeping out. If you're talking about groups being turned against each other, I can tell you that this is one at the kitchen table, because a lot of people don't understand it at all. If you are about to ask on the street, you will see nothing but misunderstanding about this. People don't understand that people who enter the country get those homes first and foremost. That mixes you with the discussion that these azc's are so full. Yeah, they're very crowded, but do you know what's causing that? Because there are some people in there who should have gone back to the safe country they came from. That's 20%; that's the safe landlords. As a cabinet, you don't do anything about that. You can blame yourself for that. You cannot blame Mr Kops or others here. For that, you must look at yourself in the mirror. Then there is the problem that the front door is wide open to the influx. The cabinet does virtually nothing about that too; just say: nothing. That front door stays open. So these azc's are filling up. The last point is that these people are not, in fact, a legitimate point of Mr Jansen's question of Dutch nationality; those people have a temporary residence permit. You know that, too. They are sitting there for at least five years waiting for a final residence permit. So you could leave those people in those azc's until there's room again in the country of origin or around it. Then you could take them there and give them a safe place to stay; that's the famous Danish model. These are all reasons and opportunities to tackle the problem of the full influx that is not about Kops' proposal. But you mix these two together and then you actually blame Mr Kops for that in your speech. I think that's weird.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-14.u68	Of course, the latter is not the case anyway, because we are discussing an initiative legislative proposal which I assume will not be adopted. So the latter can't be the case anyway. Maybe I should go back to the beginning. I never use the word "priority" myself. I deliberately don't, because the right term is actually "urgency." When we were both in the college in Rotterdam, we also gave urgency. We gave urgency to status holders, but also to other groups, for example to the group of people who emigrate from the ggz institutions, the group of people who emigrate from a sheltered housing facility or the group of people who emigrate from social care or the women's shelter. Why do you give that type of urgency? 'Cause if they don't, they're gonna hold a place where someone else should go. The ggz would no longer be able to function if we did not give urgency in case of outflow from ggz settings. The same applies to social care. We could build endless homeless shelters if we didn't give urgency to the outflow. So applying urgency to a number of groups, which didn't have the choice a few years ago and didn't get on that waiting list, and especially to those groups that otherwise occupy a place you just need, is logical, has been municipal policy for decades and is also wise municipal policy. Right now, the outflow's stalling. The influx is a little higher, but also not that crazy much higher. The migration balance is, of course, higher and far too high, which we like to agree with each other, but the influx into the asylum shelter is not very much higher than usual. Places in the asylum shelter are occupied by people who should have flowed already. Those are the status holders. That is by far the largest group within that group of 40,000 people who should not have been in the current asylum shelter. Those are the status holders. That's almost 15,000. Then you also have a group of safe people. That group is smaller, but too large. Eric van der Burg, I can tell you, is working incredibly hard to ensure that we are actually going to deactivate those safelanders. That's very tough and very complicated, but it has to be. Then we have a group of Dublin claims. This is also a complex group, but we must also get to work on it, because it also accounts for around 15% to 16% of the current asylum reception population. In short, it is true that at the moment there are several places occupied by people who should not have been there. But the largest group of them are status holders. In short, a solution for status holders does indeed help to prevent us from opening a new azc every week. No one wants that. There is no political party that would like that. In my opinion, by now, the majority of all parties really want us to get more control over the influx. At least the coalition wants to. And you want that, too; I know that. So our job to solve this very big issue is to get more grip on the influx and make sure that the outflux doesn't stop, but just keeps going. That's my objection to this bill. This legislative proposal does not solve this problem, but makes it insoluble for municipalities by saying two things in the same law. The first is: you have a mission. The second is: you can't give urgency. So how are municipalities even going to meet this target?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-14.u69	Indeed, I recognize the long answers from Rotterdam. It's more than enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-14.u70	Even then, you always found them convincing. I remember.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-14.u71	For now, it's more than enough. Here's what's important. That task is the big problem. I am going to table a motion on this, because this chapter is still lacking, namely that municipalities, Rotterdam and all the municipalities, are still being forced to include people. The point is that the front door remains open. I have heard Mr Van der Burg literally say here: we do not want it. There is no political will; I would like to say it. The VVD is often tough and Mr. Brekelmans says: we want an asylum stop. It just doesn't happen. So that front door stays open. There are indeed a lot of people coming into the shelter and they are not getting out. So, yeah, there's a total stop there. It's gonna get stuck, and it's gonna fill up. And then you say, "That's 15,000 and we're gonna have to house it." There wouldn't have been that problem if that front door had been closed. So I do not think it is right that you should say to Mr Kops, who is simply in favour of giving priority to Dutch people to getting a home, after waiting a long time, not to let them catch up with people from outside, saying: yes, but that is where we stand; just look at people from ggz institutions and so on. There are few people who get angry when you say: those people come from a mental health institution and they need to get a home. What pisses them off is indeed that people from another country who stay in an azc from there enter the housing market. That's the angry one. In short, it doesn't really touch anything you say, despite the length of your answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-14.u72	I agreed with the last sentence, but then there was another sentence that I didn't agree with. It is true what you are saying, and that is something that should call for extra caution in our profession. When you say that there must be urgency for people who want to leave prostitution and for people who want to leave a ggz institution or from a shelter or social care facility, people say for that type of urgency: yes, logically. Otherwise they will hold a place that belongs to another, and those people did not know that they would be admitted, so they could not have placed themselves on the waiting list seven years ago. For those people, that makes sense. That's why I'm always very careful with the word "priority." De facto priority would be to ensure that no one else is allowed in until all the people to whom this applies are housed. Well, it's not at all. In most years there is somewhere between 5% and 10% of the awards for status holders. We are now over 10%; that is right. That's high, average over the past few years. But there is no generic priority. It didn't apply and it doesn't. There was urgency, and in fact there is urgency in many municipalities because they have it in their own regulations. It is something that we should want to ask ourselves, I think, why we think it can be defended by all those other emergency groups and not by status holders. I'm not talking about asylum seekers, am I? I am talking about status holders, so people who are allowed to stay here after an asylum procedure. Those status holders also have my constitutional mandate to provide housing for anyone entitled to housing. Why is it true that it is the angry du jour? We have to ask ourselves that. And just when it is, it is up to us as politicians not to stir up that fire, so not to be even polarizing where polarization is already there. That's our job.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-14.u73	I'll quit after this, Mr. Chairman. Surely the Minister is not going to think that he is going to seriously compare women in a stay-of-my-living home or people with a mental disorder who are temporarily admitted and need to get a home with people from a faraway country who have a status here, a temporary residence permit, and get into the housing market? He can't seriously compare those groups, can he? My question is whether the Minister agrees that it is a political choice to have 15,000 status holders in our country. Is that a political choice or is that not a political choice? Minister, please explain to me why the problem in Denmark is very different.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-14.u74	Then we will turn it into a migration debate and the President will intervene. I very much agree with you that these groups are not comparable, but coincidentally they are at one point. And that's just what's touching that housing situation. The point is that they are currently in an institution, shelter and so on, where they cannot stay, because others are waiting for their place. That's where it's similar. Another point is that they could not have placed themselves on a waiting list a few years ago. They didn't have that opportunity. It is also comparable on that point. For the rest, they are all groups of a different nature. It is precisely for this reason that municipalities often have an emergency regime, in which a number of groups are appointed who need to be given urgency. Our beautiful community has that, too. Therefore, urgency is not a priority. For all these groups, that's not a priority. That would mean that no one would ever be on the waiting list again. Fortunately, that's not the case. Every year, 180,000 social homes are released. The majority of people who get a home are not part of an emergency group. But some are and often there is a very good reason to grant that urgency.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-14.u75	Very good. I'm gonna break up this Rotterdam conversation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-14.u76	But I liked it. I haven't spoken to Mr Eerdmans in a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-14.u77	Yeah, nice of you guys to have a little chat again.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-14.u78	I am going to answer a question from Democrats 66, President; with your permission, of course. That was the question when the legal anchoring of residential care visions will come about and how we will do it. I'm working on a bill right now strengthening the direction of housing. I announced a lot of the content of that bill to the National Housing and Construction Agenda. I believe that we should use the current instruments of the law much better. I also believe that the law has really white spots on a number of points which make it impossible to actually direct. I want to strengthen that direction. One of the possibilities for this is the obligation of municipalities to have a housing regulation, an emergency regulation. That must therefore be a housing regulation in which you can regulate urgency and in which emergency groups are designated. Local authorities must also have a vision of housing care in which they live and work together. I want to do that in the law strengthening direction of housing. I hope that will be consulted at the end of the year. I hope I can discuss it with you at the beginning of next year so that this law can enter into force as soon as possible. Mr Bishop asks why so many municipalities choose to continue to allocate licence holders as urgent. Doesn't that show that municipalities can't do otherwise? Yeah, that's the way I see it. The legal obligation to choose urgency was that until 2017 there was a law: if you have a housing regulation or if you have an emergency regulation, at least there must be one of the groups. Subsequently, a number of groups were mentioned, such as people pouring out of a stay-of-my-family home, caregivers and also status holders. That's what the law was like. In addition, there was the target. The obligation to appoint status holders as an emergency group has been removed, but the mandatory mandate has remained unchanged. This means that municipalities that work with a system of urgency have often kept status holders as part of it. The reason why municipalities have not seen any other possibility is, in my opinion, simply that there is scarcity to be divided. So this problem, too, is another reason to build a lot more. Mr President, I come to the conclusion: the appreciation of the legislative proposal. I think I secretly told you a little bit about the way the cabinet looks at the law when answering the interruptions. Kops' own-initiative proposal provides in the Housing Act 2014 that municipalities may no longer grant urgency to licence holders on the grounds that they are licence holders. However, since the Housing Act 2014 also lays down the legal remit, this would lead to an internal conflicting mandate for municipalities, an assignment that they cannot carry out, even if they would want to. Because you have the task of housing an x number of status holders, but you don't have the ability to provide urgency for that. All municipalities have waiting lists, so none of the municipalities will be able to meet the target. This leads to inter-administrative control of the provinces towards all municipalities, because they do not fulfil their mission and they do have to comply with it. And the county must say to the county: I don't know how. That's one. Two. It leads to an accumulation of the effluent from the azc's and thus to the addition of azc's. That is inevitable and no one wants it. In short, the law is not enforceable. The Council of State is very clear and recommends that this law should not be dealt with. That's what we're doing now. Nevertheless, I hope that I have been clear: it seems very unwise to adopt this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-14.u79	Very good. So much for the first term. We'll continue with the second term immediately. And then I would like to give the floor to Mr De Graaf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists for Freedom.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-14.u80	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The contours and the social situation in which this bill and also the handling of this excellent bill by Member Kops...................................................................................................................................................................................... This cabinet, of course, runs on the basis of several major international organisations, but also on the basis of VNO-NCW, who have been implementing their tristate city plan for a very long time, and then we know that there will soon be 30 million people in this country. That is the objective of this cabinet. That is the objective that is not being communicated. No, the population is kept in hypnosis by saying "the flow is not good." But we all know that we must stop the influx into this country, to prevent polarisation in this country, to prevent precisely the toxic mix of population groups that are facing each other, thanks precisely to the rhetoric of this cabinet of technocratic narcissistic texture and stature. It's this cabinet that polarizes. It's this cabinet that's poisonous. We have seen this to the Minister, because we know from this minister as an excellent representative of the cabinet with technocratic narcissistic traits that if he gets angry, the Chamber and some of the Members who interrupt are actually right. We have seen this in the debates in recent years. I liked to see that. I liked that. I know that there are many members of the population, residents of this country, who agree with the author of the bill. Mr. Chairman. I'm coming to a conclusion. Thank you to the Chamber for the nice debate that has taken place. Thank you for a little bit of emotion here and there, because it concerns many people about what is happening in relation to the population composition of this country. Thank you, too, to all those who have given a glimpse of their agenda, because the Council of State does not want this, fine. That's one. But we as a room go over it, along with the First Chamber. And that's where I've seen unwillingness. What's the unwillingness in? The criticisms from the parties representing the cabinet have not been translated into amendments, as Mr Kops himself said. Why didn't you come up with that? Then it would also have been a more complete law for you. No, but now the minister was free to shoot. It was all nicely tuned. So also the viewers to this debate have got a nice insight into how the game is played. There has been no addition, no amendment has been tabled, and that is actually very unfortunate. It's still an excellent bill. Indeed, the most beautiful legislative proposals fit on the side of a beer skin and Mr Kops deserves all the support. Finally, I am in favour of this. I don't have any motions, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-14.u81	Thank you. Mr Jansen from the Forum for Democracy Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-14.u82	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As I have just said, I am increasingly surprised at the asylum debate, especially in recent weeks, and also at the attitude of CDA and VVD on this issue. They always say they want to represent the Dutch people and their interests and to limit immigration, but it goes on and on. One of the many consequences of this is that Dutch people cannot find a house. You're looking at the systematic dismantling of our country, in all respects. It's just gonna go on. Soon everyone's going to go home. And then there might be something about it: maybe we shouldn't do this kind of thing or I don't know. Then we get back in the car and it goes on. It's just gonna go on. It doesn't seem to get through in any way. If we continue in this way, there will be no more Netherlands. We've already recorded millions of people. This only goes on like this. We're not gonna have 300,000 homes, we're gonna have 400,000 too short. That keeps going on and on until the point is that there's gonna be a lot more. Then we won't have homes for Dutch people anymore. That's just gonna happen. That's what you're responsible for. You're gonna have that in your name. I hope that you will soon be able to look in the mirror with a clear conscience, because this is the result of the policy. That's why I have a number of motions, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the granting of asylum should be directed towards return where circumstances permit;]] [[noting that status holders with a temporary residence permit are automatically entitled to an indefinite residence permit after five years;]] [[calls on the Government to come forward with a proposal to abolish the residence permit indefinitely,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Jansen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35914-9]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-14.u83	I also have one that deals with the housing shortage.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-14.u84	I think that's better. With regard to the motion you have just tabled, the Minister will of course simply say: I am not about that. That's a little lost effort. Anyway, now I'm going to anticipate the Minister. I shouldn't do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-14.u85	Maybe the Minister has an opinion on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-14.u86	"Don't underestimate me," says the Minister. I would never dare.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-14.u87	I certainly wouldn't do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-14.u88	You're continuing.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-14.u89	Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Netherlands suffers from an unprecedented housing shortage;]] [[noting that the Netherlands has issued more than 600,000 residence permits for asylum and family reunification in the last 15 years;]] [[calls on the Government to examine to what extent the revision of these residence permits can contribute to solving the housing shortage,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Jansen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35914-10]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-14.u90	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-14.u91	That was a nice one. Then we will listen to Mr Geurts from the CDA group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-14.u92	Mr. Chairman. I have one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that by now 14,000 status holders are unable to leave asylum seekers' centres due to the shortage of housing, resulting in a shortage of the Dutch asylum shelter;]] [[noting that the adoption of the present initiative proposal means that status holders should stay longer in the already overcrowded azc's or that additional azc's should be built;]] [[noting that the cabinet is now talking about an asylum crisis which it says is not taboo to find solutions to this, but that this initiative proposal merely prolongs the asylum crisis;]] [[Whereas the Kingdom should take greater responsibility for the housing of status holders by reducing the pressure on municipalities by means of regional agreements on temporary housing;]] [[noting that the Crisis and Recovery Act allows shorter procedures for an environmental permit for temporary flex housing;]] [[calls on the government to work proactively with municipalities to use the current legal instruments, such as Crisis and Recovery Act, and to explore new legal instruments to accelerate procedures for setting up temporary housing,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Geurts.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35914-11]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-14.u93	A few closing words. I strongly reject the words spoken by Mr Jansen on behalf of the Forum for Democracy, namely that the CDA contributes to the dismantling of the Netherlands. It's a ridiculous statement.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-14.u94	Mr Jansen would like to respond to that. The floor is up to him. Short, because we're not gonna do all this...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-14.u95	Yeah, we're gonna be brief, Mr. Chairman. What does Mr Geurts call it that the CDA has been responsible for allowing millions of people in the Netherlands, which has led to disruption of the housing market, overload of social security, shortages and educational deficits? All these things are the result of mass immigration. It cost the Dutch 400 billion. What does he call it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-14.u96	I do not share Mr Jansen's statement on behalf of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-14.u97	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-14.u98	I mentioned a number of facts. How would he name those facts? How can parties have made the choice for decades for people from all over the world rather than for Dutch people? What does he call it instead of dismantling the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-14.u99	I am not responding to Mr Jansen, because what he is putting here is not right. There is no answer to that, because the facts are simply not right, I say to Mr Jansen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-14.u100	Then Mr Eerdmans of JA21.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-14.u101	Mr President, thank you. I have three motions. At an earlier stage, we have already indicated our support for Mr Kops's proposal. Thank you to the author for his generous explanation to the Chamber and also to the advisor. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Netherlands has a deficit of more than 300,000 dwellings;]] [[Considering that under the Housing Act 2014, the Government requires municipalities to house status holders on the basis of semi-annual targets;]] [[Whereas this puts unacceptable pressure on the housing market;]] [[calls on the government to impose an obligation on municipalities to house status holders and to abolish the associated targets,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the government is in consultation with the security regions on the consequences of the asylum crisis and the reception of asylum seekers;]] [[calls on the government not to impose any pressure on municipalities to receive asylum seekers,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Netherlands is faced with a very high influx of asylum far beyond reception capacity;]] [[Considering that, as a result, the pressure on the housing market continues to increase by large numbers of status holders;]] [[whereas the Netherlands is not in a position to do so;]] [[declares that an asylum stop is necessary,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Eerdmans.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35914-12]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Eerdmans.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35914-13]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Eerdmans.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35914-14]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-14.u102	Merci.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-14.u103	That too is more of an asylum debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-14.u104	It's connected to asylum. I certainly don't deny that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-14.u105	Thank you for admitting that. Mr Peter de Groot of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-14.u106	Mr. Chairman. First of all, thank you to Mr Kops for answering the questions. I argued in the first term that as a VVD we do not want priority for status holders in regular social housing, but that we do need a solution. As a short-term solution, we propose that status holders, together with other groups, be housed in temporary homes. I brought two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there is currently insufficient temporary accommodation available for housing attention groups, such as status holders and emergency seekers;]] [[noting that status holders are staying longer in azc's;]] [[Whereas sufficient stock should be available for housing status holders in temporary dwellings;]] [[calls on the Government to examine in the foreseeable future the stock needed for housing status holders;]] [[calls on the Government to implement this temporary accommodation as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by member Peter de Groot.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35914-15]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-14.u107	Then there's the second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there is currently insufficient temporary accommodation available for housing attention groups, such as status holders;]] [[noting that status holders are staying longer in azc's;]] [[Whereas failure to give priority to status holders can only take place when there is sufficient temporary stock available, taking into account the task of municipalities;]] [[Invites the Government to bring into force the Housing Act 2014 in relation to the exclusion of priority granted to licence holders in housing on the basis that they are holders of authorisation only after sufficient stock of temporary accommodation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by member Peter de Groot.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35914-16]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-14.u108	Today or yesterday, VVD MEP and former member of the staff, Mr Malik Azmani, said that Dutch people also have the right to housing. Can I conclude, as a small profit from this debate, that the VVD agrees with the PVV that Dutch people are severely discriminated against in the housing market?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-14.u109	In my first term, I indicated that the waiting list, on which different people stand and where status holders can sit when this bill is adopted, should simply be ended. That's what I said. I'm not gonna say anything about discrimination. My point is that it's fair and status holders don't fly in front of those waiting lists.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-14.u110	Okay. However, there is a slight gap between the remarks made in the European Parliament and those made in the House of Representatives. Which one should I use now? Which one should I use now, because it's both VVDs? It's one party. Does the VVD think that Dutch people are discriminated against in the housing market, yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-14.u111	Mr President, I am sorry, but I can only repeat my answer. It is the VVD here in the Lower House to do the fact that we say: gosh, on the one hand we have to make sure that status holders, if we settle that well with each other and there is a solution for that, properly connect to the waiting list. I am not going to use words like "discrimination" here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-14.u112	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-14.u113	Rounding up, indeed. So the answer is no. We know where the VVD is: Dutch can burst.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-14.u114	Would you like to respond to that, Mr. De Groot? No? The last speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mr Boulakjar of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-14.u115	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Very briefly. I haven't prepared any motions. Although I very, very much disagree with this bill, I thought it important to take part in this debate on behalf of D66. I think the right of initiative of the Chamber is extremely important, no matter how bad a plan is in my view. The Council of State was very clear. I follow the advice of the Minister as an advisor to the Chamber on this matter and I will advise my group to vote against this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-14.u116	That's clear. I'm suspending for five minutes? Ten? I'm suspending until 9:10 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-14.u117	I am happy to give the floor to the initiator, Mr Kops.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-14.u118	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to thank Members for their second term contribution. I can be brief, because I note that no further questions have been asked to me. In conclusion, I would like to make the following point. I insist that there is a beautiful law before us, which in a quick and relatively simple way immediately puts an end to the discrimination against Dutch house-seekers. I understand that it is not very common for me to respond from here on to what the Minister has said, but I would like to mention one thing. The Minister said that this bill could turn groups against each other, but quite the opposite is of course the case. Quite the opposite. The discrimination against Dutch people is hereby terminated. This bill simply says: "Do you want a home? Then you have to wait for that, just like everyone else." Mr. Chairman. What the Chamber ultimately does with the bill is, of course, also a political choice. The choice you submit is: does the Chamber want to maintain the discrimination against Dutch house seekers or not? Mr. Chairman. Thirdly, thank you once again to the members of the groups of FVD, PVV, JA21, Group Van Haga and BBB, who have expressed their support. Finally, I understand that it is not customary for me to respond now to a motion addressed to the government, but I would like to take a moment...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-14.u119	It's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-14.u120	That's okay, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-14.u121	Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-14.u122	The last motion, tabled by Mr De Groot of the VVD, talks about the entry into force of the initiative law before us. Entry into force of the Act excepting priority holders naturally implies that this law will eventually be adopted. So I'm definitely counting on support from the VVD. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-14.u123	I would like to give the Minister the floor for the closing words. The floor is up to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-14.u124	Thank you, Mr President. I shall confine myself to the motions that have been tabled. I'll start with the motion in part No. 9 by Mr Jansen. It is about abolishing the residence permit for an indefinite period. You might suspect that this has to do with an asylum debate. However, in order to avoid any discussion, I would advise against this motion, of course. The Jansen motion in part No. I'm not telling you 10, too. At the Geurts motion in part No. I'll leave the verdict to the Chamber. This is an appeal to use all the instruments, but also to explore a new toolbox to see if we can speed up the procedures for temporary housing. I think that's very necessary, no matter how tough and complicated that may be. I hope to be able to return to you with the results of this call, because it is very necessary to build more as soon as possible. The Eerdmans motion in part No. 12 calls on the government to abolish the obligation to house status holders. That does not seem very helpful to me; I have just argued that. I'm dissuading the motion. The Eerdmans motion in part No. 13 asks the government not to resort to coercion in any way. Of course, you always try to act in good consultation with the municipalities. That is also the modus operandi at the moment, but of course you cannot completely rule it out. If you need new locations for azc's, it may prove necessary. That's what Van der Burg said. He said: I am considering a bill. So I must also advise against this motion. Then I come to the motion on part No. 14 on an asylum stop. You'd suspect it: that's actually another debate. But the motion has been tabled in this debate and I therefore advise against it in this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-14.u125	It's a speech-out.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-14.u126	Well, look, I didn't have to dissuade them at all. Now I've already ripped off a tip of the veil I would have done if I had to judge it. Mr. Chairman. The motion in part No. 15 by Mr De Groot, VVD, invites the government to examine in the foreseeable future the stock needed for housing status holders and invites the government to implement this temporary accommodation as soon as possible. A link is being established between "needed stock" and "temporary housing" in order to avoid displacement as much as possible. I very much support that idea, so I would like to get on with this and leave it to the Chamber to decide. The motion in part No. 16 actually anticipates the eventuality that the law would be passed. To avoid that. You can prevent that, because you vote. So I am going to discourage this motion because it is more desirable that this law should not be passed, as I have argued in the first term. Mr. Chairman. This will put an end to the response in this period.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-14.u127	This will put an end to this debate and also to this long day of the sitting. Thanks to the initiator and his guidance.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-14.u128	On Tuesday we will vote on the law and on the motions. So much for this debate. I shall close the sitting on 22 June.
