ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u1	Welcome to this debate on the situation in Ukraine. I would like to welcome the Prime Minister, the Foreign Minister and the Minister of Defence, as well as the MPs and the people in the public gallery. Before the debate begins, I would like to say a few words. I'll do that in front of the ambassador, Maksym Kononenko. The Prime Minister will then also make a brief statement on behalf of the cabinet. Mister Kononenko. Thank you for being here. I am honored that you are here with us today, now that your country and democracy are in such huge peril. After a period of diplomatic unrest and siege at the border, Russia invaded Ukraine on Thursday 24 February. It's a black day for Europe. It may also mark a turning point in European history. The attack on Ukraine is more than an attack on a country. It is an attack on peace, security and democracy. International indignation is growing. Since the day of the raid, heartbreaking images pass us by. It is the citizens in particular who suffer from the violence of arms. Houses, roads, bridges and a school are destroyed, as are daily life. The images we see go through marrow and bone. Most mothers and children have fled. They left home, fireplace, work, family and friends to look for a safe haven. They were forced to say goodbye to their men and older sons, who are left to fight. It is estimated that there are more than 200,000 refugees. They fled to Poland, Hungary or Romania. Many citizens have been killed by violence. The citizens of Ukraine are innocent victims in an armed conflict. The consequences for them are greatest and inconceivable. Of course, on behalf of the House of Representatives, I would like to express my deepest sympathy with everyone in Ukraine who has been hard hit by this war violence, and with all those who are uncertain about the life and fate of their loved ones who live there. I would therefore like to express my thanks on behalf of the House of Representatives to all those who provide humanitarian aid and are ready for the people of Ukraine. Thank you. I shall then give the floor to the Prime Minister, who will make a brief statement on behalf of the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u2	Madam President. Yesterday thousands and thousands of people gathered around the world with blue-yellow flags and texts against the war in Ukraine, also on Dam Square in Amsterdam and in many other Dutch cities. They were young and old, people of all political minds and from all over the world, including Ukrainian and Russian citizens, who said the same thing with one voice worldwide. We condemn the brutal Russian invasion of Ukraine. We condemn this unprecedented act of aggression against a democratic European country. We condemn President Putin and his cabal. Our heart is with the people of Ukraine. Our hearts are with the innocent women, men and children who have to hide from enemy fire day and night. It's with the people who are now leaving everything behind to find a safe place to stay. It's with the brave citizens who unarmed managed to stop a Russian tank. It is with the Ukrainian military who have been defending their country with lion's pride for days. And it is, of course, with President Volodymyr Zelensky, who in person is the example of Ukraine's determination after the raid. His words in the center of Kiev, dressed in a green shard vest and surrounded by members of his cabinet, are impressive. We are all here, he said, and we defend our independence. Thus he stands before his troops and among his people, as a hero of his country. I've been in regular contact with President Zelensky for the last few days. It is an unreal and also moving thought that any conversation can be the last. After last Thursday, the unthinkable has become possible and impossible. This new reality forces us to stand, of us as politics and as a country, and of the whole free world. People are extremely concerned about what this means, of course for the people of Ukraine but also for our own security and our own way of life. I understand those concerns. That is why I would like to say the following on behalf of the cabinet today at the beginning of this debate. This is not a time for shakyness and restraint, but for determined and united action, both at national and international level. In the run-up to this war, President Putin has done everything possible to bring about international divisions. He's reaching the opposite. Europe, NATO and all the free and democratic countries of the world are one in their rejection of this attack, one in their support for the Ukrainian people, and one in their response. That is what we need now that security and stability in our part of the world are seriously threatened. We are dealing with an aggressor who crosses new borders every day, violates international law and does not even shy away from the nuclear threat. The most important task of any government, of any government, is to keep the country safe. Everyone wonders in these days: where does this end, where does Putin stop? No one can answer these questions today, but the fact is that the Netherlands is embedded in international structures that protect us, make us stronger and enable us to do exactly that: keep this country safe. Together with other countries of the European Union and with our allies in NATO, we have been able to take great steps in a short time. Russia has been largely isolated by an unprecedented sanction package. That is why the leaders of Russia and also the Russian war machine are being hit financially hard. European airspace is closed to Russian aircraft. The Netherlands and other countries help Ukraine with military equipment, including anti-tank missiles and anti-aircraft missiles. And the eastern border of the NATO territory is rapidly being strengthened, because we need to be prepared for everything. Our Dutch F-16 and F-35 pilots have taken immediate action over Poland. And the men and women of our armed forces in Lithuania also contribute to the deterrent. The Netherlands, together with allies, is ready to do more if necessary. The image changes per day and sometimes even per hour. One thing is certain: security is our most precious asset and the basis for our free and democratic society. We have to protect that, and we have to defend it with each other. Our armed forces must be ready, now and in the future, to face these new threats. We must also bear in mind that this war will not be without economic consequences, not for the global economy, not for Dutch entrepreneurs doing business in Ukraine and Russia, and not for all of us, as energy prices may increase even further. There are economic consequences, but if that is the price of security and freedom, we must be prepared to pay that price with each other. Of course, the cabinet will do everything possible to mitigate the economic consequences. We're not abandoning each other in this country. We must prepare ourselves for the fact that some of the Ukrainians who are now fleeing head-on, will come to our country, away from the violence, away from the Russian threat. I firmly believe that the Netherlands and the Dutch will show solidarity with these people. We saw it on Dam Square yesterday: it belongs to the Netherlands. As a cabinet, we will also work together in Europe on this issue in order to provide the best possible assistance to anyone fleeing the war zone. Any Ukrainian who is seeking a temporary safe passage must be helped generously. Madam President. None of us can predict what this war will mean in the long term, for Ukraine, for geopolitical relations, for cooperation in the European Union and NATO, for us as the Netherlands, and also for Russia and the Russian people themselves, of whom we must not forget that today much of this war does not want either. With the Russian raid in Ukraine, a page in the book of world history has turned. For us, peace, freedom and security were a gift for generations. That self-evidentness is no longer there today. We must stop Russian aggression, Putin's aggression, together with our partners and allies, united, determined, united. That's the only way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u3	I thank the Prime Minister. Before we start the debate, I would like to inform you that the Minister of Defence has an additional EU Council of RBZ Defence from 12.30 p.m. to about 2.30 p.m. I think we can understand that, given all the urgent developments. Of course, its officials will follow the debate and then reply to the questions put to them. First of all, I give the floor to Mr Sjoerdsma of D66. I would like to meet with Members: four questions and comments to each other and six to the directors. If there is more room for that, I will of course give you the opportunity. I call Mr Sjoerdsma of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u4	Mr. Chairman. After this moment, maybe it'll be a quick look at how to start. The weight of this office, the value of this Chamber, I have not felt so strong before. In this ruffle, in this house also rare ruffle, I appreciate the ambassador and gratitude for the courage of his people, but also solidarity. Let that be the signal that today this Chamber is sending out to Ukraine: solidarity with the Ukrainian people, fighting against Putin's aggression, fighting for his life, fighting for his freedom, but also fighting for our freedom. Mr. Chairman. This is a tilt point. It's a turning point. It is a decisive point in history. In our part of the world peace and security often seem free and we sometimes forget that there is a price to pay. This allowed the Putins of this world to cross border after border. These days we realize that our freedom has a price and we draw a limit: up to here and no further. I would also ask the cabinet to express explicitly, as the Prime Minister has just done, that we will not stop until we have Putin underneath and that we are prepared to pay the price. Because we have to be honest about that price. There is a war in Europe and so all Europeans are going to notice it. Of course, we must do everything we can to avoid the vulnerable in our country. I call on the Cabinet to do the same. But the honest story is that we're going to feel this, not just over the next few weeks, but over the next few years. Thanks to a united Europe, thanks to our strong transatlantic bond, we can also get stronger out of it thanks to a more vigilant NATO. Mr. Chairman. What should the Netherlands do? First of all, make Putin pariah. Isolate him. Make the pressure so big, he can't help but give up on this. Isolate Putin's wallet. It is very good that personal sanctions have been imposed, but let De Nederlandsche Bank and the Public Prosecutor also work on this. Make sure we see results by Friday, that the Zuidas is vetted, that we know how much is being taken away. Make sure that Switzerland joins these sanctions, so that there is no escape route for Russian money. Isolate Putin internationally. After what happened at the Council of Europe, do so now with organisations such as the European Bank for Reconstruction: throw Russia out there too. Isolate Putin legally. Let us join, I say to the cabinet, in the accusation that Ukraine has brought before the International Court of Justice. Mr. Chairman. Second. We have to support Ukraine and the Ukrainians, and there the cabinet has acted incredibly quickly with weapons such as stingers and snipers guns, with money of EUR 20 million in emergency aid and with the willingness to welcome Ukrainian refugees, but I also ask the cabinet: let us share NATO intelligence, let us make a big financial contribution and let us do everything, including on the practical side, to ensure that we are ready for Ukrainian refugees. I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. A tilt point. Then there's no point looking back and saying, "If only we had this or that." We have to do what we have to do now. Europe must grow up within a few days. I'm sure we can. What seemed impossible days ago, seemed unthinkable, has now been fought for each other in a few days. Now we must finally move towards European defence cooperation. Now we have to get rid of the Russian gas. Now the veto has to be removed in European foreign policy. We now need to regulate European asylum policy and solidarity. I ask the Cabinet to make every effort to realize these breakthroughs with our allies in the coming weeks. Because, Mr President, our freedom and security are at stake. Those are harsh words, which we may be saying a little too often here, but these days are really true. So let's do everything we can to ensure the security of Ukrainians to tackle Putin hard and keep Europe free and safe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u5	Thank you. An interruption by Mr Van der Staaij, SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u6	Mr Sjoerdsma was right to call for a consensus on the issues at stake. I'm totally falling for that. But could we show this unity today when it comes to a firm strengthening of our defence? Let's face it, for a long time we were NATO's bum. Money has now been added, including this cabinet. I have expressed my appreciation for that, but more needs to be done. How does Mr Sjoerdsma see that? What is his group prepared to do?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u7	First of all, let me say that there is no taboo for my group at this time, and that my group is prepared to do whatever is necessary. Let me also recall what the groups of the SGP and the Christian Union did together with D66 in 2013. Then we managed to turn the trend of cuts in defence to investment. This has continued to be the case in individual Cabinets, including this cabinet. This cabinet ultimately brings us to 1.8% of GDP, close to that NATO target. But Mr Van der Staaij is right, that is not 2%. I am telling you today that we are prepared to consider whatever is necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u8	So even more concretely, "considering everything that is necessary" means at least very quickly to the minimum 2% that we have just agreed to? That means 5 billion more, we want to get there with the current state of affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u9	Real concrete: this cabinet period is 1.8%. It depends a little on the state of the economy, but that means that about EUR 1.8 billion is needed at the end of this cabinet period to get out of it. But let's also look at what Germany has done. Germany was lagging behind in the Netherlands, just as Spain is lagging behind in the Netherlands. We've put in an incredible catch-up race. But I say to Mr van der Staaij that we need breakthroughs not only in the field of defence, but also in the area of gas dependence and in the area of European cooperation, whether in the field of defence or in the area of asylum. For my group, therefore, there is no taboo: what is needed is necessary, depending on the needs of our country.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u10	Mr De Roon, PVV, and then Mr Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u11	I would like to ask Mr Sjoerdsma if he has seen how Mr Putin put the head of his foreign security service on television in front of the world. Does Mr. Sjoerdsma really think that someone who does is impressed by all the sanctions he's been preparing for for a long time?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u12	I've seen more than that. I have also seen that Putin has put the troops running his nuclear weapons into a greater state of preparedness. I suggest that as a sign of weakness, of fear, of someone who is frustrated that he is not getting what he would have liked to get in Ukraine and who is up against a greater resistance than he had ever thought possible. Putin runs into a European Union and a United States that is not only more united than ever, but also more decisive than ever. I would also like to warn that these weaknesses are also very dangerous in times of crisis, because any threshold that is lowered for the use of greater violence, whether confessional weapons or nuclear weapons, is extremely dangerous.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u13	None of that was an answer to my question, but okay. I would ask Mr Sjoerdsma very specifically. The Dutch citizen is going to pay for the consequences of these sanctions, especially in his wallet and in his energy and gas bill. Now the PVV has launched a proposal to put VAT on energy at zero for a year. Are you prepared to stand up for this Dutch citizen by supporting this proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u14	First of all, I believe that we must do everything we can to keep our continent free and safe. I note that this cabinet, as well as many parties in this Chamber, are prepared to take far-reaching measures to do so. I would also like to say in this Chamber that your party is not and that your party does not support these sanctions. That your party is actually choosing to let Putin do what he's doing right now. I understand very well what you are saying about the consequences for Dutch citizens. No one in this Chamber does not think of the Dutch citizens. But first we think about their freedom and security. Then we think about how we can best regulate it for them so that the consequences are as limited as possible. But I tell you one thing, Mr De Roon: anyone who promises today that the Dutch citizen will not notice is lying. I won't do that today.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u15	I still don't hear a response to our proposal. I should like to hear that response from Mr Sjoerdsma. Does he support this proposal, even if it is in principle, which can still be discussed? Does he support that proposal in principle?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u16	I would like to hear from Mr De Roon, after which I will respond to his proposal, whether his party, or his group, or his foreman is prepared to support these sanctions. Whether his party is prepared to restore unity in this parliament. Whether his party is willing to make it clear to Russia that this is not possible. I would also like to say to you, Mr President, that the majority of this Chamber is saying that we want the cabinet to look at how the increase in the energy bill can be taken as well as possible. These are motions that have already been tabled here from the left to the right, which have been shared and which the cabinet is looking at. That's not new. That wish exists, Mr. De Roon. So you can add another proposal to that, but the wish from the Chamber is already there in a majority. The question before us now, Mr. De Roon, is much more urgent. Confess color. Where is your party? Are you here for the Dutch interests, or are you representing others' interests?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u17	Mr. Van Roon, last interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u18	I won't answer the question to me right now. That is what I am going to do in the speech I am going to make. However, I note that Mr Sjoerdsma simply refuses to fully support the PVV proposal here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u19	Thank you. Mr Van Haga of the Van Haga Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u20	Look, Russia's invasion of Ukraine is, of course, reprehensible. The question is: how are we going to get back to a peaceful situation in the best possible way? People never want war, of course. This is usually done by out of control politicians. We'll meet him there. What surprises BVNL is that we answer the war rhetoric there with war rhetoric here. We should bet on de-escalation. My question to Mr Sjoerdsma is: does he think that delivering 200 stingers, just aggressive assault weapons, and Ursula von der Leyen's statement last night that Ukraine can become an accelerated member of NATO signs of de-escalation?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u21	When a country such as Russia, led by Putin, breaks down all the rules of this continent, endangers peace and security, invades a country and commits war crimes in that country, there is only one response to that. And of course we want diplomacy. Of course we want a peaceful solution. Of course we want de-escalation. But if, at a time of such aggression, you do nothing but say that you do not want to take measures, look away, if you want to, then you agree with Mr Putin. This is now far more dangerous than actively supporting the country that is fighting now, not only for its own freedom but for all of us.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u22	We agree that the raid is reprehensible. The question is: what are the scenarios for a peace recovery as soon as possible? I do not see any scenario in the Prime Minister's speech and in your speech. There is only one way in that, and evil is requited with evil. In my opinion, it is very good to consider the fact that there are other scenarios and that there are other solutions. Delivering stingers leads to a situation in which a young man or woman, who does not want to be there at all, shoots another young man or woman out of a helicopter. Dead. Everyone's gonna die. That's the direction D66 is heading now. That's why I'd love it if we could talk quietly here about the scenarios to get to de-escalation. Because what's happening now isn't de-escalation. Your own minister puts a picture with a muscle ball on Instagram: wow, we're going to deliver 200 stingers. These are murder weapons. You probably didn't serve. I do. These are weapons that cause our boys, or boys there, to die. I don't care if they're Russian or Ukrainian. We need to prevent that. Your speech does not lead to that. So again, let's see if there's any de-escalation potential. This isn't helping.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u23	I've seen in Afghanistan what stingers can do, Mr. Van Haga. But maybe just for a little while on what you're saying. In 2008, Russia invaded Georgia, moved up to Tbilisi and took North Ossetia. There was indignation and there were some actions. It's never been returned. In 2014 Russia annexed Crimea. There was a lot of indignation and there were many statements and convictions. There were strong sanctions and then it became quiet. The lesson Putin has learned from that is quite simple: I can go to war without consequences, I can put rules next to me without consequences and I can do what I want. I say to Mr Van Haga, Ukraine is closer than Madrid. It's the border of our continent. If you want to appeal to this man, if Mr Van Haga so wishes, then that is his right in this country. But my group does not want that. My group wants to stand up to this aggression.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u24	Thank you, Mr. Sjoerdsma. I shall now give the floor to Mr Van Haga of the Van Haga Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u25	Mr. Chairman. BVNL strongly condemns Russia's invasion of sovereign Ukraine. I express deep sympathy for all those affected in this war. Neither the Ukrainian people nor the Russian people have anything to do with this brother war. Nevertheless, BVNL wants the Netherlands to remain neutral. Was the Netherlands wrong when we remained neutral during the First World War? Of course not. Were we wrong in 1939, when we wanted to remain neutral again? No. That fits in with our history of 100 years of neutrality policy. And is it wrong to argue for neutrality now? No. We can remain neutral as long as there is no NATO country involved. The Hague also has a reputation in the field of international peace. That is why I ask the Prime Minister whether he is prepared to play a role in future peace negotiations on the basis of neutrality. Mr. Chairman. When I stood up for my officer's inspection the question was asked: are you willing to die for the Netherlands? I answered that question with a full yes. This is my criterion for supporting military activities. And that is why my question to the leaders present: are you willing to die for Ukraine? Mr. Chairman. Before we do anything, we must always identify the collateral damage, both when sending soldiers and weapons and when imposing sanctions. Ukraine is not a member of NATO and not a member of the EU. We have already voted in a referendum and the result was: no. BVNL is against sending soldiers, against sending weapons and against imposing sanctions. Sanctions mainly affect the Russian population and the Dutch economy. Prime Minister Rutte indicated that he does not even want to map the collateral damage for the Netherlands because it is a matter of principle. But one doesn't rule out the other. And so again my question: what is the collateral damage of sanctions and the delivery of weapons, and who is going to pay the price for this? The importance of the Netherlands must prevail, and this is not served by interference in this conflict. As terrible as this war is, the risk of escalation is too great and the damage to the Netherlands is enormous if we do not remain neutral. Mr. Chairman. Let us use all diplomatic means to de-escalate and let us provide humanitarian aid where necessary, but let us prevent a third world war. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u26	Thank you, Mr. Van Haga. Then I give the floor to Mr Brekelmans of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u27	Last Thursday we all woke up in another Europe; a Europe of war, a Europe we thought we had left behind in the 20th century, a Europe where our freedom and security are no longer self-evident, but must be fought. Don't turn a page in our history, just a page back. Dozens of millions of Ukrainians now live in fear. They do not know if their house is still there at the end of the day, whether they will see their family, children or friends. And hundreds of thousands of Ukrainians are fighting for their country, for their lives and for their freedom. They stand bravely against the great Russian army. Ukrainians deserve our support and deep awe. Putin's violence is reprehensible, criminal and totally unnecessary. We wanted to solve it at the table, he wants a war. We want peace and security, he wants oppression and violence. He and his accomplices are guilty, no one else. Not Ukraine, not the West, nor the common Russian. What we need to do now is three things. One: supporting Ukraine, two: putting pressure on Russia, and three: strengthening our security. First of all. In this war, we must continue to support Ukraine in supplying weapons. The Cabinet must do everything possible now. Budget must not be an obstacle. My question is therefore: is this the case now? Isn't budget an obstacle, and if so, what is needed in the short term? We can also see that refugee flows are starting to happen. As a VVD, we always argue for care in the region. Now this is happening in Europe, this is our region. What is the Cabinet doing to help support reception in neighbouring Ukraine? And what preparations do we make to receive people here in the Netherlands in a good way? Secondly, we must continue to exert maximum pressure on Russia. I'm pleased with all the sanctions, but we're not here yet. We have to keep going. What else can we do so that Putin can't reach his reserves? Have all the current European programmes with Russia actually stopped? Can we immediately stop running software licenses, especially those used by the Russian army? And does the government also think that sanctions for Belarus should be as harsh as for Russia? Of course, Putin will fight back and we will also suffer economic damage. What is the government doing to prepare for this, especially the entrepreneurs who are hard hit by it? We must also punish the Russian military summit, which is responsible for these war crimes. Lithuania is preparing a request to the International Criminal Court. Is the Netherlands prepared to join? Thirdly, we must increase our security. NATO is a broad security ring for the Netherlands. NATO will never allow Russian tanks to drive through our streets. We therefore need to strengthen NATO at the eastern border. This has always been a priority for the VVD and it now has the highest priority. However, as the Netherlands, we are not delivering what NATO is asking of us at the moment. I can't do that anymore. Money must no longer be the problem. How much extra budget is this cabinet period needed to meet the readiness and investment that NATO is asking for? In addition, as far as the VVD is concerned, this cabinet period is at least 2%. The risk of Putin re-attacking, possibly due to cyber attacks on the West, is very high. He's already enlisting hacker groups. My question to the cabinet is what we are countering, whether we are in the highest state of preparedness, removing all the legal barriers that exist and ensuring that we bring together all the knowledge and expertise we have in the Netherlands. This is a matter of national unity. Finally. Since Thursday we live in a different Europe. Let this really be a wake-up call. This Russia under Putin is no longer a partner, but an enemy of our free and secure society. This requires more investment in defence, less dependence on Russian gas and unanimity with our allies. That is the hard reality of the new Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u28	Thank you. There is an interruption by Mr Van der Staaij, SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u29	As far as defence is concerned, Mr Brekelmans has just made a clear statement, but I would like to ask another question about the whole cyber side, which he rightly calls attention to. A few years ago an evaluation showed that it is sometimes quite difficult to combat hackers in a good way. Should we not also look at this legislation so that there is sufficient room for our security services to operate authoritatively in the cyber domain as well?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u30	I agree 100%, especially now. We already see the first signs, which are very worrying. Hacker groups are mobilized by Russia, but you can also see data streams suggesting that there may be a major cyber attack coming. In this respect, too, this is a moment of national security. Firstly, we must ensure that we can do what is necessary in terms of activities. Secondly, we need to bring together the knowledge of both our intelligence services and private parties who have eyes on it very quickly in order to properly exchange knowledge and do what is needed, as Mr Van der Staaij also says.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u31	The very first debate on this was requested by my colleague Ephraim. Then Mr Brekelmans and Mr Ephraim agreed on the Ephraim motion, which was supported by the VVD, which stated: no boots on the ground, no soldiers to Ukraine to provide combat operations there. I thought that was very brave of the VVD, because it kind of split the room a bit. I hope that Mr Brekelmans and the VVD will stand behind this. Through the chairman, I ask Mr Brekelmans whether he will continue to support this motion and whether we can count on the VVD not putting Dutch lives at risk there.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u32	I agreed with the wording of that motion, because it said quite clearly 'no combat operations'. We have always said, for weeks and months, by the way, like President Biden and other NATO members: we are not going to fight in Ukraine, even if it comes to a Russian invasion, which unfortunately is the case now. That's not gonna happen. It may, of course, be that we now have to supply military goods to be issued or that some instruction is needed in the vicinity of Ukraine. I think we should keep that space together, so that now we can do what is necessary, but we are not going to fight.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u33	Thank you, Mr. Brekelmans. Then I give the floor to Mr De Roon of the PVV for his contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u34	Mr. Chairman. Ukraine is being torn apart, but the Ukrainians are fighting back bravely. Zelensky said on Wednesday in his speech addressed to the Russian people: "We do not attack, we defend ourselves. If you attack us, you will see our faces. Not our backs, but our faces." So far, this mentality has kept Ukraine going. Russia is progressing hard and suffering heavy losses. Colonels Russian military vehicles have been destroyed. There is already a high price Putin is paying for his military raid. An invasion that is clearly a flagrant violation of Ukrainian sovereignty and an invasion that is therefore also rightly condemned, including by me on behalf of the PVV. The PVV also disgusts Putin's blunt aggression. But the big question now is, of course, how to proceed? To answer that question, you should be able to look into Putin's head, but that gift has not been given to anyone. What we do know is that disgusting words haven't helped at all before. And sanctions haven't helped either. Former so-called "Minister of Foreign Affairs' of the so-called "Minister of Foreign Affairs' of the so-called "Minister of Foreign Affairs' of the so-called "Minister of Foreign Affairs' of the so-called "Minister of Foreign Affairs' of the so-called "Minister of It is therefore pointless to repeat this old strategy of sanctions now on a mega scale. Putin is at his own discretion on a historic mission and has prepared for huge sacrifices. The question is whether we should sacrifice our own economy. Not as far as the PVV is concerned, but the government has opted for a war of sanctions, so that Dutch people who are already on the brink of water are financially pushed into the abyss even further. The Prime Minister has been busy with foreign affairs for the past week, but the Dutch citizen is also here, I say. Putin's aggression is instantly leading to high costs, starting with the gas bill. Think also of the Dutch, I say. Is the government prepared to set the VAT rate for energy at 0% in this emergency scenario? Does the Cabinet embrace this PVV proposal? Mr. Chairman. The PVV foresees that with the heavy sanctions we are heading for a dark scenario, with one escalation following the other very quickly. We know, of course, that the Russian raid is not going well as planned, and that is good news, but tickling the Russian bear behind the eyes can lead to a huge disaster. That's why you don't do that. Don't do anything, I say in the direction of the cabinet, as Mrs von der Leyen, who, without a mandate from anyone, suddenly calls for EU membership to be offered to Ukraine. That is a huge provocation and oil on the fire, and there is no point in doing so now. Mr. Chairman. The beginning of the end of a military encounter often starts with diplomacy. Therefore, I say in the direction of the cabinet, put everything in place so that it can be returned to it. Is the government prepared to make the promotion of negotiations a priority so that people's suffering can be put to an immediate end?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u35	Firstly, an interruption by Mr Kuzu van Denk and then by Mr Jasper van Dijk, SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u36	We know that Mr De Roon's party is not so keen on refugees. It is expected that a lot of refugees will have to make the difficult journey to ensure their safety. I was wondering what the PVV is like with regard to the flow of refugees that has already started.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u37	In this case, they are real refugees, unlike the happiness seekers we often see coming into our country. These are real refugees. The PVV is therefore of the opinion that they should also be taken into account, in a proper way. This should primarily be done in the countries where they enter, the border countries: Poland, Slovakia, Hungary I thought, too, Romania, Moldova. That's where that has to be done. The PVV is also willing to agree to withdraw the wallet, in order to ensure that the reception takes place there as well as possible. But that's where it's gonna have to happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u38	Of course, I can go on forever about what a real refugee is and what isn't, but I'll leave that for a while. I was wondering whether Mr De Roon is aware that we are part of the European Union. So when people enter Poland, other countries within the European Union also have a responsibility. I was wondering if that's the first question I have in the direction of De Roon, what the role of the Netherlands is. How many refugees are to be received by the Netherlands in relation to the PVV? How many resources are you prepared to release for the reception of refugees from Ukraine?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u39	We are against the wishes of the PVV in the European Union and those solidarity rules, which the PVV has little message about. We do not therefore need to withdraw the wallet immediately or otherwise to bring the refugees here. It shouldn't be. They need to be taken care of, but we want to pay for them from a humanitarian point of view. That, I think, is pretty much the answer to what Mr Kuzu is asking me.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u40	I'm surprised. It is good to hear the PVV say that Poland should be supported in the reception of refugees. I certainly agree with you, but at some point, of course, it can be large numbers. And then Poland will also say: Europe will have to contribute to a fair distribution of refugees. Shouldn't you, as the Netherlands, take on your role as well, as it's really about refugees in the region?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u41	For me, it is about refugees who have arrived in the border countries. That is where they need to be taken care of and not in Europe. I have just explained to Mr Kuzu, and I repeat that here again, we do not have a message about the rules of solidarity within the EU. So they have to be taken care of there. And if at some point in those receiving border countries the water gets to the lips or higher, then we can always see what we're going to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u42	Thank you, Mr. De Roon. Then I give the floor to Mr Jasper van Dijk of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u43	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Putin's attack on Ukraine is terrible and a gross violation of international law. The images of fighting in the streets of Kiev and Charkov are unbearable. It is, as always with a war, not the political elite that leads under it, but it is the people. We are now seeing this in full measure and it must stop. Yesterday, Putin even talked about preparing strategic weapons, by which he means nuclear weapons. How's the cabinet looking at this? What Putin is doing is unacceptable and we have great respect for the resistance from Ukraine. They seem to have prevented a quick victory for Putin. We also have great respect for the Russians who are protesting against Putin. That also requires a lot of courage. It is clear that this is not a war of the Russian people, but of Putin. The repression is enormous and will not diminish. The SP supports effective sanctions. We do have questions about that. The sanctions should as far as possible affect the elite and the Russian people as little as possible. That can even be counterproductive when it comes to supporting Putin. How's the cabinet looking at this? What do we find the balance in? It is clear that Putin and the super rich around him cannot be hit hard enough. What possibilities are there for this and what choices are being made? How much Russian capital in the Netherlands is covered by these sanctions and is now being frozen by the government? Are Russian companies on the Zuidas really being dealt with? It would be hundreds of letterbox companies. Should the sanctions result in the Dutch being affected, can they count on proper compensation? Inflation and high energy prices are already hitting lower incomes a lot harder than high incomes. Mr. Chairman. It's terrible to see the footage of people fleeing the violence. We see kids who need to sleep on the subway. It goes through marrow and leg. The refugees are now mainly moving to Poland. Is the government prepared to support Poland in this if that country indicates that this is necessary? And how does the cabinet view the reception of refugees in the Netherlands? It is important for the SP to learn from the past. It must therefore be a fair distribution of refugees throughout the Netherlands. We must not, as has happened before, let the poor communities and neighbourhoods in particular receive refugees. I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. One more question about the Council of Europe. Russia has been suspended from this and is now threatening to stop the financial contribution of around EUR 30 million. I think it would be a good idea to compensate for this loss of income. Can the government call for this in the Council of Europe? Finally, Mr President. The most important thing at this moment is that this Putin war stops as soon as possible. We must keep our heads down and do everything we can to bring about a cease-fire and to ensure that warring parties go round the table. The people of Ukraine must be freed from this madness. I'd like an update on the negotiations. To what extent does the government see opportunities for the Netherlands to play a role in this, as a country that has high regard for international law? Mr. Chairman. Finally, I would like to draw everyone's attention to the manifestation that we organize with the Party for Animals on Saturday 5 March in The Hague.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u44	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Piri of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u45	Mr. Chairman. In one week the world looks completely different, for Europe, for the Netherlands and especially for the Ukrainians themselves. Also last night, many people slept with children in cellars or in the subway, to hide from Russian rockets. We see heartbreaking images of people saying goodbye to a loved one to pick up the weapons to defend their democracy. None of them wanted war, but the war did reach them anyway. Putin chose war, his war, despite all Western diplomatic efforts. This has radically changed the European security situation. The Russian dictator is a threat to all of us. He denies Ukraine's right to exist, wants to forcefully rewrite history and even threatens the use of nuclear weapons. Mr. Chairman. This unprecedented aggression deserves a harsh response, with the toughest possible sanctions, aimed at Putin and his clique of oligarchs and further isolating Russia on the world stage. My group supports the government's commitment, but let us also see what else we can do. Let me give you two examples. Firstly, our Zuidas must no longer serve as a safe haven for corrupt Russian money. Possession of oligarchs, from houses to bank accounts, must be acutely identified and confiscated. Secondly, yesterday the EU decided to finally curb the Kremlin propaganda machine in the EU. This also requires action by the Cabinet, by tackling troll army, fake news channels, one of which has recently been admitted to the broadcasting system, and actors actively involved in the dissemination of Russian propaganda. I'd like a response from the cabinet. Mr. Chairman. It was impressive yesterday to express our solidarity with thousands of people on Dam Square in Amsterdam. This war on European territory will not go unnoticed by the Netherlands. How is the Netherlands preparing for the arrival of Ukrainian refugees? How is concrete aid given to neighbouring countries such as Poland, where many people are arriving now? And is the Netherlands willing to arrange transport for people from the Ukrainian border? In addition, the increased preparedness and arms supplies, which my group supports, will also require a lot of questions from our defence apparatus. Let us be clear that for the Labour Party we must do whatever is necessary to keep the Netherlands and our allies safe in this new situation. Finally, the European dependence on Russian gas. It is a painful finding that this dependency indirectly finances Putin's war machine. What steps does the government take to reduce this dependence in the short term and to help people who are in trouble by rising gas prices? Mr President, I will conclude. Many Dutch people are sympathetic to Ukrainian people these days. There are heartwarming initiatives to help people. That's wonderful to see. War on our own continent right at the borders of the European Union is an unprecedented threat to our security, an unprecedented threat to freedom and democracy in our Europe. It is the Ukrainians who pay for this struggle with their lives and it is up to us to show solidarity and support them wherever they can. Mr. Ambassador, Slava Ukraini! Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u46	Thank you, Mrs Piri. I give the floor to Mr Klaver van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u47	Mr. Chairman. It is important that we are together today to show that we are united and strong, that we do not let ourselves be separated. I have been very impressed over the last few days by how the Ukrainian people stand up under the leadership of their President. How people without military training pick up weapons. How they sometimes walk without weapons towards tanks and address military forces. How they, I wouldn't say without fear, but with all the fear they feel, still feel they have to defend their country. There are not only refugees leaving Ukraine, but also people entering Ukraine to defend their country. It is our great task to support them in this. Fortunately, there are not many politicians here in the Chamber; I am now looking to the right who say "do we just have to do it to help the Ukrainians?', I say: this is about so much more than Ukraine. What is at stake here is our international legal order, the idea that peoples have the right to self-determination, the idea that after the Second World War we developed together that we respect borders, that we do not invade other countries. Do not pretend that Europe or the Netherlands do not want to take the diplomatic path. That's what we always want. We've gone to so much trouble to come to the table and stay with the Russians. They don't want to. And if they don't want and escalate, there's only one answer, and that's that we have zero doubt to stand up. I am also extremely pleased with the European Union's response. We fully support all sanctions. We support the supply of arms by the Netherlands and the European Union. I say that we will support all the steps needed to bring this conflict to an end. I also think we should do more. It is not only about freezing assets of Russian oligarchs, but also about the money flowing through the Netherlands via the Zuidas. Take it. We must be open to refugees and help the countries at the borders to receive shelter, but we must also be ready to receive people here. And it is time for stronger defence cooperation in Europe. It is a lot about the budget, about how much we spend here in the Netherlands, but in the end Europe already spends seven times as much on defence as Russia. We need to work even better together and it is time to speed up all the discussions on the defence union and European armies. Mr. Chairman. We also need to look at the domestic consequences. This is gonna be a long fight, but eventually we're gonna win him. But the consequences for the Netherlands will be enormous. I am in favour of a boycott of Russian gas and oil. It is indigestible that 600 million dollars are still flowing daily towards the Russian Federation. We have to stop doing that. This will have unprecedented consequences for gas and energy prices in Europe, not only in the Netherlands. I am thinking mainly of Italy and Germany. But we have to do it. That's why I'm looking at the cabinet: what is needed? I have to remember the declaration of government. I started my contribution by saying that it is strange to talk about a government statement and government plans for the coming years when you know what is happening at the Russian border. I couldn't imagine it was gonna happen at the time. But it means that a little messing with purchasing power is really not enough. It requires a very thorough review of how we look at the Dutch plans to ensure that our Dutch people can actually see the firm approach we have to choose. Mr. Chairman. I'll come to a conclusion. We must protect ourselves from the attack on our democracy, both on the outside and on the inside. That is why I will also call for a wide-ranging study to be carried out on the financing of political parties and politicians and the links there are with Russia. I will also propose to you, President, that, should confidential briefings continue to be made to the House of Representatives, parties such as the Forum for Democracy and the PVV should be excluded. At present in history we cannot have this bargaining in our own parliament and we must protect ourselves not only against the Russians, but also from interference here in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u48	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Kuzu van DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u49	Thank you, Mr President. Until last Thursday, democratic Europe thought it was a safe continent. Diplomacy was the key to resolving conflicts, so Western leaders continued to talk after talking to Putin, even though they knew that talking endlessly to a power luster like Putin only makes sense if you act hard and then negotiate. After the raid in Ukraine, it is clear that our security structure is only dressed in shreds of illusions, the same illusions that led these diplomatic consultations. We were already in some kind of Second Cold War. Now that Putin is openly threatening to deploy nuclear weapons, we may be on the eve of a Third World War. Mr. Chairman. My group supports the government's efforts to isolate Putin and his cabal in every possible way. But I would add that the current response from the Western world is actually "too little, too late." For months it has been indicated that we should act faster, because since December we have seen a troop building on the Ukrainian border. We were getting more and more signals that Russia would invade Ukraine. We were assured that the security situation was closely monitored. Yet Europe acted too late. Every year our leaders say at different commemorations: never this again. But even now we stood by and watched Russia invade Ukraine. Mr. Chairman. Russia's attack is painfully revealing that the EU's foreign policy is ineffective and fails. The Union has needed months to act against Putin dictatorship. In order to act effectively against Putin, we must therefore isolate Russia by all means possible due to the current occupation of Ukraine. The most important bottleneck is known to us all: the veto structure in the UN Security Council. We will really have to come up with a different structure, so that a country such as Russia cannot block any more good proposals. Mr. Chairman. Three days ago, our Prime Minister said that what happened in Ukraine was the greatest violation of international law since 1945, by far. I was thinking about Srebrenica. Diplomacy didn't stop the bullets then either. When the war took place there, it also rained convictions on all sides. Sanctions imposed did not, or hardly did, impress the Serbs. The same thing is repeating itself now. Even now, Putin is shrugging his shoulders. Unfortunately, we see that we are being refused to learn from our mistakes. Mr. Chairman. Dmytro Kuleba, Ukrainian Foreign Minister, said yesterday in a video that it is a matter of hours and not of days to help Ukraine. The Ukrainians stand in the front line and fight for their country, with man and power. They are heartbreaking images at the European border posts: families who have gone out with their most precious possessions, including pets, to flee from the Russians who invaded Ukraine on Thursday. A flow of refugees of 7 million people is expected. I therefore ask the Prime Minister whether he can indicate how much resources the European Union has made available for the coordination of these refugees and what precautionary measures have already been taken. I also ask the Prime Minister to act as a coulance with regard to the Ukrainian migrants in the Netherlands because of the war. I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. The citizens in the town of Kharkiv, but also in other cities, were shocked by a Smerch MLRS rocket. This Smerch system is used by Russia to fire banned cluster munitions. The international treaty completely prohibits cluster munitions. I would therefore like to ask the Prime Minister or the Minister of Defence if an investigation can be launched from the OPCW because of the use of illegal weapons. Mr. Chairman. In any case, I wish the ambassador, who is our guest today, but also the entire Ukrainian population, a great deal of strength to continue this fight. I say, Slava Ukraine!
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u50	Thank you, Mr. Kuzu. I now give the floor to Mrs Agnes Mulder of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u51	Mr. Chairman. "A people who succumb to tyrants will lose more than body and good. Then the light goes out." These words by the Resistanceman and founder of Vrij Nederland, Hendrik van Randwijk, we had to think about last Thursday. A pitch black day for Ukraine and Europe. The raid in Ukraine is illegal, unscrupulous and irresponsible. A flagrant violation of international law. A step back in the past of the Cold War. Firstly, I would like to express our condolences and our unconditional support for the people and leaders of Ukraine, as well as, of course, for the Ambassador. They're brave. Their struggle for freedom and democracy is ours. Their call for peace and justice is ours. We stand alongside the Ukrainians in their struggle for these shared values. President Zelensky's courage and wisdom give hope. His performance is reasonable and worthy. The contrast with Putin cannot be greater. This is Putin's war once and again. Putin's war is illegal. Because he puts power above the law. Because there was no threat from Ukraine. Genocide and denazification as false pretenses without any evidence. Flowers at the Ukrainian Embassy in Russia. Brave protesters in Russia. A mother with an infant on her arm being evicted. Can Putin count on the support of his own people? Putin's agenda wasn't a state secret. He wants Russia as superpower and former states such as Belarus, Armenia, Kazakhstan and above all Ukraine as satellites. We know that since the invasion of Georgia and the occupation of Crimea. At every election, with the SGP, we advocated a greater budget for our armed forces. That is why, in the negotiations, we have also set out for a structural increase and a substantial increase in money. Fortunately, Germany has chosen to do so since yesterday. With the raid in Ukraine, we are at a crossroads in our history. This calls for a rapid and united response from the world community. The CDA Group gives the cabinet the support and mandate to act proactively. More than ever, it is important that the European Union and NATO act together and decisively to ensure that Putin fails in his mission. I have been surprised that we are openly communicating about the exact delivery of military equipment. They know that in Moscow now. The CDA Group supports the sanctions package that has been announced, including for Belarus. Bite them where the pain needs to be felt. And I'll take one more step. Where does the cabinet see room for effective additions? We are thinking of SWIFT, of freezing the assets of European daughters of, for example, Gazprom and of secondary sanctions, such as the UN that applies to Iran. The war is going to have major humanitarian consequences. That is why we must help the people of Ukraine with humanitarian aid and medical devices. For private initiatives, we would like to have a coordination point at Foreign Affairs. It is heartwarming to see these initiatives. We must prepare for the reception of refugees in our own region. Are there any agreements on this in Europe? A war like this leads to unbelievable suffering. Putin is threatening nuclear weapons now. However, we must always keep the path of dialogue open. What possibilities does the cabinet see for this? We need to think about what this conflict means to our country, our security and our operational readiness. How can we become less dependent on our food, industry and energy? How do we ensure that Europe is not trampled between superpowers with their own ambitions and interests? We would like a European Security Council. How does the cabinet view this? Our values, our democracy and our freedom deserve our protection, from a united Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u52	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mr Van der Staaij of the SGP. Mrs Mulder, I see that there is another question from DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u53	No, Mr President, but for the Acts: I did my part on behalf of the Den Haan Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u54	There you go. I call Mr Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u55	Mr. Chairman. "Yet Ukraine's glory has not perished, nor its freedom. And we too, brethren, shall reign in our own land." They're words from the Ukrainian national anthem. And how different that sounds in these dark days. Our deep respect goes out to all those in Ukraine who so courageously defend their country and our prayers go out to the relatives of the victims and to those who now know so threatened. Russia has invaded Ukraine with raw and inconspicuous display of power. Let it be said again, even from this place: it is an unacceptable and flagrant violation of the security and self-determination of a sovereign country. This was rightly condemned by the Netherlands in the strongest possible terms. The war initiated by Russia is a direct threat to security and international law in the Netherlands, in Europe and in the world. Mr. Chairman. In this light, the SGP Group is also committed to expressing support for the government's commitment to sanctions, the delivery of military goods, the provision of humanitarian aid, cooperation on the reception of refugees. Unfortunately, when it comes to sanctions, we have to be honest about the fact that it is not possible to prevent us all from feeling financial pain in the Netherlands and Europe. At the same time, it is a good thing that we are always carefully and as well weighted as possible to ensure that these sanctions affect Putin and his cabal as much as possible, instead of shooting in our own foot. My question is therefore how we can work together with the allies to find ways to minimise the economic pain for our own citizens, farmers and entrepreneurs. Mr. Chairman. It is a good thing that energy security and energy prices are clearly the focus of the cabinet and that we do not literally leave citizens and businesses in the cold. We would say: let us indeed make extra work of reducing our vulnerable dependence on Russian gas as quickly as possible. Mr. Chairman. The situation around Ukraine shows us all how important it was, is and remains to invest in defence. That is why we are calling for more money to be made available for our defence, for our armed forces and at least for the 2% we simply agreed on in NATO. I'd like to hear the government's reaction to that. I would also like to draw attention to the invisible battle that is now raging in the cyber world, the hackers that are also controlled from the Kremlin. My question to the cabinet is whether it wants to do everything that is necessary, including in rapid legislative adjustment, to give our security services sufficient space. Our impression is, also on the basis of the evaluation report, that they are now too strict, too tight, and that it is important to have sufficient space in that cyber domain. Mr. Chairman. The big question is, what's next? Let us stand side by side with the Ukraine, but also with NATO members who feel very threatened by recent developments. Let us support diplomatic efforts for peace, but within the limits of the international legal order. Keeping our heads cool, being decisive, but keeping us far away, even at EU level, from promises and statements that create false hopes and can work as oil on the fire. That is what this is all about. The evil, the injustice and the lust for power: it is great, it can be great, but it has no future in the end. Every power, no matter how intimidating, will once fade and sink. Yesterday, in many places, also in our land, and in many churches, was read and sung from Psalm 91, which begins with the comforting words: "He who is in the hiding place of the Most High, who will lodge in the shadow of the Almighty." We hope and pray for wisdom for all who play a responsible role in these difficult times. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u56	Thank you, Mr. Van der Staaij. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Teunissen, Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u57	Mr. Chairman. Last Thursday we woke up in another Europe. The horrible images of the war also penetrated into our living rooms. Overwhelming is the unity and sympathy shown to the Ukrainian people, the victims, all the families whose loved ones have been called to the front and all the Dutch Ukrainians, who look with terror at what is now happening in their homeland. Overwhelming was also the solidarity that Dutch showed this weekend in Amsterdam, Heerlen and Groningen, and not only Dutch, but people worldwide. The Animal Party supports the sharp sanctions and all generous support for Ukrainian refugees. But we can do more. The exclusion of some of SWIFT's Russian banks is a good step, but still oil and gas do not seem to be excluded from payments. That's right, I'll ask the cabinet. 45% of the Russian economy is on the revenue side. They're financing Putin's war machine. He finances his army, propaganda and security forces with the hundreds of billions of dollars from the oil and gas industry. Russian chess grandmaster and political activist Garry Kasparov also indicated this week in Nieuwsuur that the Russian opposition has a weak position because Putin earns enough of natural resources in Russia. Does the Prime Minister agree with the Animal Party that Putin has used so much violence that we should make full use of SWIFT sanctions at the moment, not include us on this point and ensure that oil and gas payments are stopped as well? And is the Prime Minister also prepared to set up a boycott on oil and gas? The Netherlands historically has a huge share of our fossil addiction. The cabinet has ignored many warnings in the past. Because the government has increased Putin's dependence on gas for so long, the necessary sanction, namely boycotting Russian gas and oil as much as possible, cannot be left out of this discussion. Using less gas in our own country is geopolitically a perfectly realistic move. We need to secure our gas reserves for households and other protected customers and reduce gas demand so that we minimise our contribution to financing the war and become less blackmailable. Does the Prime Minister see the possibility of a rapid roll-out of a gas switch-off plan? The closure of certain industrial branches in order to save gas resources is on the table as far as the Party for Animals is concerned. Think of a fertilizer plant or rose farms. At the moment, our priority must be to save as much gas as possible. Mr. Chairman. Refugees are now being received in countries around Ukraine. The Dutch cabinet has also announced that reception is being arranged for Ukrainians travelling to the Netherlands. It is good that the cabinet shows that there is always room for people fleeing war and violence. Society is also showing itself on its best side in this respect. Can the Prime Minister also undertake to proactively offer aid to countries around Ukraine in the reception of refugees, just as Germany has done? How is the Netherlands preparing for the arrival of Ukrainian refugees here, I ask the Prime Minister. And will the Netherlands also use additional resources for this? Finally, Mr President. As far as the Animal Party is concerned, concern for those who oppose Putin's violence means ensuring the greatest possible stop on oil and gas imports, complete closure of the SWIFT banking system and tackling Russian letterbox companies, and above all putting solidarity above trade interests from now on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u58	Thank you. I shall now give the floor to Mr Baudet of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u59	Thank you, Madam President. My speech consists of two elements. Those are the two elements you need, I think, to find the best way out of a situation like the one we're in right now. The first element is: how did we get here? What exactly is going on here? And the second is: what is the best way to find a solution from the situation we are now in? It is with great regret that I noticed last week that we were so right in our campaign against that stupid association agreement in 2015 and 2016. Precisely the two things that we warned against in the early days of the Forum for Democracy, when we were not yet a party in the Chamber but were campaigning against the Treaty during the referendum, were EU membership and NATO membership. Those two things are getting much closer to the association agreement, so we warned, and that is going to lead to conflict, to war. That does not work; do not do it, we said, for it is very unwise. At that time, we found Frits Bolkestein, among others, by our side, who had written in several newspapers: comply with the Minsk agreements. These Minsk agreements stated, among other things, that Ukraine should be federalised. It was not therefore necessary to make a single state with one language and one jurisdiction and so on, but all these different areas had to be given their sovereignty, self-determination and language rights, and other rights, such as their own tax system and their own television stations. That never happened, quite the contrary. Over the last few months, Ukraine has closed down four opposition television stations, as is happening in the European Union. Times change, let's just say. So there have been very clear warnings from our side and from Frits Bolkestein, but also from John Mearsheimer, a well-known politician from the United States. All these people said: don't do this, because it's incredibly unwise, and if you do it anyway... Since 2015 that has only happened more. Last summer, in July, NATO reiterated in Brussels that Ukraine will indeed become a member of NATO. There will be military exercises and 43 billion US arms subsidies have gone to Ukraine. So it is quite clear that that is politics. And it is also quite clear that this is unacceptable for Russia. If you have that situation, then you can have two... I come to hear your interruption, Mrs. Mulder. So there are two things you can do. And then I'd like to quote a man I've known, Johan Cruijff. Of course, that was a very interesting man, who could look at things completely brilliantly. It was about all kinds of political issues and he said, "I know one thing. If I want to cross a certain intersection with a bike, I can theoretically have the priority rules on my side hundreds of thousands of times, but if a truck crosses from the left at 200 kilometers per hour, I'm going to brake." Well, that's realistic geopolitics. That is a realistic political strategy. And that is, consciously or unconsciously, I would like to say something about it in a moment, completely ignored and trampled on. Fools rushed in! As stupid, naive children who recreated a James Bond movie ran the Yankees towards Ukraine, and look at the result. I'll tell you what I think is the way out, but this is my analysis of what happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u60	Maybe you can finish your story first, because you don't have that much time. So finish, then I will give the floor to Mrs Agnes Mulder.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u61	Okay, very briefly. If we continue on the road that I am now being proposed, the conflict will only escalate further. Then we will unite Saudi Arabia, India, China and Russia into an anti-Western geopolitical bloc. This is incredibly bad for us, for our economy and for our geopolitical situation, and of course for Ukraine, but also for Russia. It's bad for everyone. All that's served is the Great Reset. You can already see: cyberhackers, restricting the internet, cash disappearing, climate transition continuing, European unification continuing. Wow, um...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u62	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u63	After two years of covidscam, we now have the Russian cam.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u64	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mrs Agnes Mulder, CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u65	Mr Baudet obtained his PhD with the attack on the nation state. That is a heartfelt plea for sovereignty. That is why our question: does the Forum for Democracy Party condemn Putin's invasion of Ukraine?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u66	Well, is the attack on the nation state a plea for sovereignty? It is an analysis of the fact that you need a national state if you want a democratic rule of law. Is Ukraine a nation state? That's an interesting question. And question two: does moral philosophy fit in with international relations? I think the answer to both questions should be negative. Ukraine is a very complex country. It's a beautiful country. It has many special peoples and special regions. But I wouldn't call it a nation state. I would rather call it a 'conglomerate' of at least two very different peoples. In the east and around Crimea there are the very Russian-oriented. In Western Ukraine there are the very anti-Russian-oriented. That is a first point. I think the second point is even more important. Does moral philosophy fit in with international relations? I don't think that's true at all. We can do anything... What I deeply argue in the attack on the nation state is that realism in international relations is much more appropriate than idealism.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u67	Thank you. Mrs. Agnes Mulder.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u68	My question was: does the Forum for Democracy condemn Putin's invasion of Ukraine? Does Mr. Baudet condemn that attack? A simple answer is "yes" or "no."
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u69	I think that question stems from a category error. Judgments are... I regret it. I deeply regret it. I feel terrible for the people there and for all of us, including Russia. I hate that this is happening. Terrible. I just don't quite understand what "a judgment" is supposed to be in international politics. Things are happening. We're very sorry about things. I'm so sorry. I hate the fact that these guys run our countries, who didn't see this coming from hundreds of miles away. You know this in advance. What's happening now is in nobody's best interest. The things that are now being proposed to respond to that are much more stupid.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u70	Yes, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u71	You're not gonna fix it. You're escalating it to a world war. That's the last thing we want.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u72	I just want to ask you, no insulting expressions. We are holding the debate on the substance. I shall now give the floor to Mrs Agnes Mulder, CDA. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u73	I hear a bit of a double argument from Mr Baudet. I regret that, because I would have liked to have heard from him that he simply condemns the attack completely. This is a sovereign state with a population that has not asked for it. It would be nice if he could confirm that the attack is unjustified.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u74	I hear all those words that belong in the Donald Duck and James Bond and stuff, those childish terms from Disney movies. "It's bad that it happens. Who are the good guys? Who are the bad guys?" There is, of course, a huge need to look at the world like this, especially in the Netherlands, with the vicar and moralism. Who are the good guys? Who are the bad guys? But I have a very different view of the world and of the problems in the world. To understand... Did they ask for it? Didn't they ask for it? For seven years, the Russian minority in Ukraine has been systematically bombed, in Donbas, in Luhansk. For seven years there has been a drinking water block, established by Ukraine, against the inhabitants of Crimea. For seven years, their language rights have not been respected.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u75	May I ask...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u76	The Minsk agreements are not being respected.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u77	I'd like to ask you to answer a little bit shorter.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u78	Yes. Anything that is morally speaking does not belong in international politics. So I can't answer that question. I can say that I deeply regret it and find it very tragic and terrible. And I am very sorry to say that I am not allowed to use the word "clinky"..... that such naive ideas control the administrative chambers of our countries. I also don't see how a way out is going to be found quickly, because people all look at the world so childishly.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u79	Yes. Thank you. There are quite a few interruptions, so again the request for a shorter answer. First, Mr Kuzu and then Mr Sjoerdsma, Mr Klaver and Mr Omtzigt. Mr Kuzu, DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u80	Without wanting to be moralistic and without falling into the kindergarten language that Mr Baudet is doing here: I wonder who actually invaded Ukraine. I hear Mr Baudet here pretending that Rutte did it, as if others did... Who invaded Ukraine?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u81	I welcome this question, because it gives me the opportunity to say something about something I wanted to say in my speech, namely the way out, the solution. It seems that the Russian army has invaded Ukraine following a request from its inhabitants or at least the representatives of Donetsk and Luhansk to come to their aid. But what is the way out of this situation? What's the solution? Is that forcing Russia to its knees, as Napoleon tried and as Hitler tried? Is that gonna work? Or is the solution to go to the table and say: do you know that ultimatum that Russia put in February, the ultimatum that Russia had already put in December, which is contained in the Minsk agreements, which is the starting point of diplomatic relations, namely that Ukraine is a neutral state, a bridge between East and West, what is really against it? I think it's best for everyone. Can't the Netherlands instead of this language of war, this misplaced language of war, a...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u82	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u83	... peace envoy, Jan Peter Balkenende, send that way to promote that story?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u84	Finally, Mr Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u85	Well, when we talk about childish illusions: Sending Balkening to Ukraine to settle the conflict? However, that is up to Mr Baudet. The question...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u86	No, Mr Baudet, Mr Kuzu has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u87	The question to Mr Baudet was: who actually invaded Ukraine? I understand that he is staying away from this and is immediately trying to suggest all kinds of ideas about how the conflict should be brought to an end. But to end a conflict, of course, you must have your analysis right. I saw on Twitter a tweet by a Member of the European Parliament from Forum for Democracy. I quote: "Russia has been asking NATO for security guarantees for months. to Ukraine. That was hoarded. Now Russia is doing what it has promised: to guarantee its security by military means." I ask Mr Baudet: is it allowed to invade a sovereign country, to oppress, to bomb and to keep home in order to increase your sphere of influence?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u88	I agree with Marcel de Graaf's quote. Russia is indeed doing what it has announced, and that is very sad, but Russia is doing what it has announced. Is it okay? I think you mean to unite this with the doctrines in force in international law. Or? What does "permitted" mean? I don't understand this kind of moral language. Permission granted, how so lawful? It's happening. Is it lawful for a wasp to stab me when I try to push that wasp into a corner? Is it okay? You're making a category mistake.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u89	Let me give you the floor...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u90	You can't speak morally about...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u91	You make a caricature when you compare it to a wasp. If there's one wasp here, it's Putin who's stabbing Ukraine hard. That's what happens. You wanted clarification on what I meant by "permitted." We have international law. We have territorial boundaries of what we recognise as the State of Ukraine. We are talking about the Donbas region, the regions recognised by Putin as so-called independent republices, and Crimea. We see that Belarus is also under attack. I would like to ask Mr Baudet: is that permitted in Mr Baudet's view?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u92	If I understand Mr Kuzu's question correctly, he means: within international law, so whether or not it fits within the doctrines that we are calling international law. That's what you mean, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u93	Yes. Your answer to the question?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u94	Well, the problem is that classical international law is based on the sovereign equivalence of states, but precisely that international law has been completely undermined by NATO countries over the past 30 years and NATO itself has embraced an activist, I would say aggressive, regime change agenda, for example in Kosovo, for example in Libya, for example in Afghanistan. The whole principle of sovereignty is therefore no longer respected by NATO countries. Is it weird that Russia says: wait, this country, which for historical reasons is the cradle of the Russian Empire, half of which is Russian, which is essential for our geopolitical security and so on, has a bridge function, rather than just a few minutes away from Moscow coming nuclear missiles?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u95	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u96	Is that so weird? Are we suddenly...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u97	I'm gonna stop you right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u98	...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u99	I asked you to respond a little bit less. That's what I'm asking again. I now give the floor to Mr Sjoerdsma of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u100	It hurts to hear this Kremlin propaganda here, in our house of democracy. Previously, Mr Baudet called for the abolition of sanctions against Russia. He now reiterates Putin's claim that Ukraine is not a country. It reiterates Putin's claim that he would have been invited to carry out this military violence against Ukraine. He even said, when Russia invaded Ukraine, at a time that is very dangerous, also for our continent and for the Netherlands: perhaps we should see if we still have to stay in NATO. I ask Mr Baudet on behalf of whom he is here today. Is he here on behalf of the Dutch people or is he here on behalf of the Kremlin?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u101	I stand here on my own behalf and I represent what I think is the Dutch interest. I think what is happening here now, so what people here want in majority, what Mr Rutte wants and so on, is very bad for the interests of the Dutch people. We're going through a world war. There's an escalation cycle going on where there's no way out. The only way out is to respect the Minsk agreements, federalise Ukraine, a neutral state and a bridge function between east and west. Recognising Russia as a partner on the European continent is the only way in which we can deal with the real enemy, China, in the long term. What we are doing now is the most stupid thing we can do from the perspective of the survival of Western civilization in the long term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u102	Mr Baudet and his club have threatened many in this Chamber, but also in the Cabinet, with tribunals that would come if Putin, among others, were to take over. But I say to Mr Baudet that these tribunals are not going to happen. At the moment when it matters, democracies are strong, the Western democracies that Mr Baudet so abhors are strong. Do you know, Mr. Baudet, who is going to be judged, not by tribunals, but by history? About Mr. Baudet, as a chef of a war criminal.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u103	We're in The Hague now. That's the world capital of the tribunals. Every time you hear people talking about international law and so on... Just now it was welcomed that Zelensky or Ukraine has now filed a complaint with the International Criminal Court, which is a tribunal, against Putin and against the government around him. D66 is therefore the par excellence of the party that wants to judge matters. Only the point is, and Sjoerdsma takes a deep look at it, that they are only for the rule of law and legal solutions when it is their rule of law and their legal solutions. That is, of course, what is happening here, this whim with international law.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u104	Thank you. I'm gonna...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u105	The United States does not comply with any international law. NATO has been the biggest shredder of international law in recent decades.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u106	I am now going to Mr Klaver, GroenLinks, for an interruption and then to Mr Omzigt. There are still a few interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u107	What a gibberish. And yet I rise to contradict him. It's completely gibberish. It's a man confused. But when I hear this Russia propaganda here in the Chamber, this is appeasement politics. It's dangerous what you do. You're trying to pull it back into conspiracy. You mentioned the Great Reset just now, that after Corona we would now be dealing with the Russian plot. Mr President, this is so incredibly dangerous for our democracy. Putin invades Ukraine, but our democracy is being eroded from within. I'll come back to you later, towards the Presidium. As far as I am concerned, we must draw a very hard line in this Chamber, not only by contradicting Mr Baudet, but also when it comes to sharing all kinds of sensitive information: that should no longer go to the Forum for Democracy when you hear these texts. If you don't respect international law, if you say "I'm not judging an invasion of a sovereign state," then there's something very wrong with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u108	It's not like we're getting so much sensitive information shared. English people would say: it's a bit rich, a bit exaggerated. But I'm fine with researching the funding. I would therefore suggest that we do so for a moment on all the funding of organisations, political parties, countries, think tanks and so on. Will we take a look at all the financial forces in the background that govern the Ukrainian "democratic government"? Shall we immediately listen back to what Victoria Nuland also discussed with Geoffrey Pyatt on the phone about who could become prime minister and who better be mayor of Kiev? Ukraine is just a corrupt regime bought by Americans and mobsters. With your democracy!
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u109	Thank you. I give the floor to Mr Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u110	What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u111	About democracy, the greatest achievement of our time. But if Mr Baudet says, "Let's do it," we're gonna do it. Then we're gonna go through the whole business. I look forward to it, because it is high time we completely drowned the cesspool at the Forum for Democracy. The erosion of our democracy here in the Netherlands must stop.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u112	Thank you. Then I give the floor...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u113	Hello, can I say something back?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u114	Sure. In any case, I call on Mr Omtzigt to speak. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u115	What about GroenLinks' ties to Milieudefensie and that bomb? What about it? Found at the head office of the youth department when Jesse Klaver was chairman of it. And what about the way in which Urgenda is financed by the Postal Code lottery? Why don't we take a look at that together?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u116	I suggest that we confine ourselves once again to today's issue, the situation in Ukraine. I give to Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u117	Mr Baudet has condemned almost everyone in this whole world. The government of Canada under Trudeau: his colleague Van Meijeren still felt that we should call the ambassador back. At the moment, he is quite critical of NATO countries. You can do all that, and that's perfectly normal. Even to Milieudefensie in this debate. But this debate is about Russia's invasion of Ukraine. I ask Mr Baudet once more the question that Mr Mulder asked: does Mr Baudet have a judgment, indeed a moral judgment, on whether or not it is allowed to invade Ukraine, whether or not you think it is a nation state? In Canada they also speak more languages and there they also have totally different populations. Still, he's not suggesting we attack that. Does he think that Russia, whatever happened, had the right to attack Ukraine in this way?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u118	Just a brief word about Canada: that is a federal state, and that is exactly what the Minsk agreements said that Ukraine should be, which has not happened. Poroshenko always referred to the Russian minorities as foreigners in his own country. But as far as Mr Omtzig's question on condemnation is concerned, I have written down the question and he is again using the word 'allowed' and I can only refer to the word 'allowed' in the context of international law. Am I right about that or not? That's what you mean, isn't it? Is it allowed in the context of international law? Or allowed in what way?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u119	Two things: what do you think? You're avoiding it altogether. Mr Baudet walks away completely...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u120	Mr Omtzigt has the floor, Mr Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u121	What does Mr Baudet think of the Russian raid, where it now looks like all kinds of ammunition and perhaps cluster munitions are being used in cities like Kharkiv? He's not talking about Donetsk or Luhansk at all. What does he think of it and does he think it is permitted under international law? Those are two questions, which he may also answer separately.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u122	Well, what do I think? I hate that it happened. It would have been preventable, it would have been easy to prevent. It's the West's fault. I find it incredibly unfortunate to see that they are still not learning from it. Libya's mistake, Syria's mistake, Iraq's mistake, Afghanistan's mistake is being made again. The mistake of Kosovo 1999: bombing all of Serbia for... That was ridiculous. And now it's happening again. Fools rush in. I hate that it's happening. Is it allowed under international law? That's very complex. What is still international law? In classical international law, Hugo de Groot, Thomas Hobbes and so on, it is a war of all against all. The only thing that exists is agreements between countries. According to these agreements, Ukraine and NATO violate existing agreements and there is also serious repression of Russian minorities in Ukraine. Would that justify humanitarian intervention, yes or no? That is a very complex question, which international legal counsels must answer. There's something to say for both sides. What about, for example, humanitarian interventions in certain parts of the Palestinian territories?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u123	Thank you. I give the floor again to Mr Omtzigt. It's too long again.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u124	Mr Baudet says it happened. It is not the case that tanks were accidentally removed from the emergency brake and rolled in in Ukraine, because someone was not paying attention. A conscious decision has been taken by Mr Putin to attack Ukraine. Not to attack part of Ukraine, but a full-scale invasion of the capital. He did not have the pretext that he was only there protecting the Russian people. He has attacked the whole country, with massive means; with air force, with army, with his navy and with everything at his disposal. Does Mr Baudet think Putin could do that? What action did Putin have the right to attack this sovereign state?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u125	I feel like I'm repeating myself a little bit. The question is, do I think he was allowed to do that? By what standard? In international law, in international law, there is no world government. There is no world rule of law. The only thing that exists is that countries make agreements with each other. That's what you call classical international law. There is something to be said in this for both sides. On the one hand, you should of course say that the starting point is that you respect each other's no intervention right. On the other hand, NATO and America and so on, and so on, violate the existing agreements. Ukraine has violated all kinds of minority rights. In addition, Ukraine was a State as a result of a coup in February 2014. That's why Putin invaded in February, as a symbolic reversal of Maidan's 2014 coup.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u126	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u127	So there's so much... I can't answer that question. "May," "Absent," "Absent," "Absent," that's what I think belong to your Mickey Mouse world, in James Bond movies, but not in the real world.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u128	Thank you. Finally, Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u129	Mr Baudet judges everyone all day. He mentioned his daily conviction of Trudeau. He can. If he wants to take that off himself as a Mickey Mouse world, he's free to do it. He condemns countries that invade. He condemns the United States, which invades Libya. It's okay. But it wasn't the US that invaded Russia, it was Russia that invaded Ukraine. I still don't hear an answer to that. For half an hour, Mr Baudet has been avoiding any answer about who attacked who. Russia invaded Ukraine. It's not much more complicated than that. And finally. Mr Baudet has taken his own reasoning out of court. So far, he said he wanted tribunals under international law. He doesn't know international law. International law is quite clear: you cannot attack another country. There's something you can do if the UN Security Council allows it. Russia has not even submitted it to the UN Security Council. Russia has made promises in the Council of Europe. Russia has made and violated all kinds of promises. So Mr Baudet has distanced himself from international law. He has distanced himself from his previous statements and has been unwilling to say anything about the Russian invasion of Ukraine for half an hour. It's been noted.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u130	Finally, Mr Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u131	Mr Omtzigt makes use of the semantic multipleness of the word "judge." Indeed, I constantly condemn all kinds of things that happen in the world. And I also condemn the situation that has arisen in Ukraine. I do hate what's happening in Canada. I think it's wrong, I think it's stupid, I hate what's happening in Ukraine. But he then links that to a conviction in international law. International law is the opinio juris and state practice. That is what the future will have to tell us.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u132	Thank you, Mr. Baudet. Then I give the floor to Mr Cedar of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u133	God, I'm praying for Ukraine. God, I pray for the people. Forgive them, save them and show them your mercy. God, I know you are with us in your habitation in heaven. Joy and peace have bestowed upon you. You gave your life for the people, wrote them in the book of life. Mr. Chairman. These are some words from a song that Ukrainian Christians, hiding in a subway tunnel, sang on the first day of Russia's terrible attack on Ukraine. In recent days, we have seen a tremendous perseverance and courage of the Ukrainian people: a people and a president who stand and are willing to die for their country and for values of freedom. To the Ambassador, who is present today, I would like to say that we express our support for the people of Ukraine and our solidarity with them. Mr. Chairman. There is a lot of courage, but there is also a lot of suffering, fear and a feeling of uncertainty. This feeling of powerlessness and uncertainty is also felt far beyond Ukraine's borders worldwide, because not only the future of Ukraine, but also the future of the free world is at stake. If we do not respond adequately and steadfastly to this violation of the international legal order and putin can get away with it, this can also happen in other areas and in other sovereign countries. We're already being warned about this. Today we are talking about the people of Ukraine, perhaps tomorrow we are talking about the Baltic States, Georgia or Moldova, the day after tomorrow Taiwan and other parts of the world, because the rule of law has not been able to respond adequately. Mr. Chairman. We stand not for a rule of law where the power of the strongest prevails, but for a rule of law and justice. In times of great uncertainty, prayer for peace, like that with which I began, is a great good that we may cherish. At the same time, peace must be accompanied by decisive action, courageous steps and the unity of the international legal order. The Christian Union Group states that now that Putin has decided to withdraw from this international legal order, maximum isolation is the only correct answer. Putin has tried everything to cause division, but fortunately he has achieved the opposite. The growing solidarity and unity of the European Member States and NATO Member States, the establishment of a sanction package and support for Ukraine in the financial and military fields as well as in other areas show the resilience of the international community. Mr. Chairman. The Christian Union is pleased that there is a sanction package. The Christian Union is still looking specifically at a number of firmer measures, in which the Netherlands can also take steps. For example, how does the Minister look at the monitoring of the Zuidas and other places where Russian state-owned companies may be hiding assets and assets? The British Government announced today that it wants to put an end to the circumspect constructions that allow foreign, Russian, billionaires to manage possessions and conceal possessions, for example by placing them with letterbox companies. Can I get a commitment that the Minister will look at this seriously, quickly and adequately? Mr. Chairman. There are other options on the table. How, for example, does the Minister look at the recall of the Dutch ambassador in Russia, together with other countries? Is it not the right time, if necessary with a number of countries, to bring a state complaint to the European Court of Human Rights? Is it possible to put Russia from an international perspective, such as PACE and Interpol? I would like to hear the Minister's views on these proposals. Mr. Chairman. Today there are talks going on between Russia and Ukraine. That's hopeful. What does the cabinet expect from this effort? What will the Netherlands still be able to do or facilitate at diplomatic level? Mr. Chairman. It is important that we become independent of Russian gas from Gazprom and associates. The motion Grinwis c.s. called for this, too. How's the cabinet looking at this? What are the steps taken here, including with regard to municipalities that have contracts? Mr President, I will conclude. Good, the call for generosity in the reception of refugees. I understand by now that, on the basis of the treaty concluded with Ukraine, they are allowed to stay for 90 days. But that is a difference with an application through the asylum rules, including with regard to finances and support. Can we ensure that there is no legal inequality and that they receive the same support?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u134	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u135	Mr. Chairman. Thank you and, finally, what commitment can we make to emergency aid and support civil society that is so eager to do something and wants to do something for the people of Ukraine?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u136	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Eppink of JA21.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u137	Mr. Chairman. In Europe, a brother murder is taking place, under our eyes, a kind of Cain-en-Abel moment in our contemporary history. No one can run from it anymore. Russia's aggressive raid on Ukraine has one culprit: Vladimir Vladimirovich Putin. Guilty. Only his decision has unleashed this war. Only he could have prevented it. Many European leaders tried to prevent it. Chancellor Scholz travelled to Moscow just like the French President Macron at the well-known fucking table. Unfortunately, the diplomatic phase broke down and we do not know the outcome of the harder phase of violence. Mr. Chairman. We're not here yet. Russia is a nuclear power and will threaten that weapon. Russian leaders are very reckless, even in their own country. I also think we should have no illusions, because we may be in the worst threat since the Cuban crisis in 1962. JA21 has great admiration for Ukrainian President Zelenksy and supports the Ukrainian people. The aggression against Ukrainian citizens falls under the heading of 'war crimes'. We also welcome the protest by many Russian citizens condemning this aggression. Their protest is brave. 30 years ago, we thought history was over. Wrongly: the nineteenth century is pounding on our door. In The Hague we are working on a world order based on rules and agreements. We are now faced with a world order based on brutal power. And that has consequences for ourselves, too. Our defence equipment is obsolete and worn out. Successive Cabinets cut heavily on defence, with the agreement of this Chamber. After all, there was a peace dividend? But that never existed. Yesterday, the German Government decided to increase the defence budget to 2%. My question to the Prime Minister and the Minister is: when will the Netherlands do that? In our world of experience, conflicts were always far away, without serious consequences for ourselves. Now the war in Europe is on the doorstep. This war is leading to high energy prices. Inflation is rising, purchasing power is falling, our energy dependence is too high. The financial framework of the coalition agreement has become a hole cheese, with more holes than cheese. At the same time, there is the large climate and nitrogen fund of 60 billion together. I wonder if we can still afford that in the future. Question to the Minister: when will we be presented with a new financial framework? Furthermore, the refugees from Ukraine. JA21 is for reception in the region and that region is called Europe. We must not be heartless. Ukrainians can travel in Schengen for three months without a visa; family, friends or volunteers can take care of them in the Netherlands. I am also counting on Poland, a family people of Ukraine, to be welcoming. Poland deserves our support for this. Mr. Chairman. I'd still like to ask you a few questions. Someone just said: what is living in Putin's head? Well, I don't know. Mr Sjoerdsma doesn't know either. No one here knows, because nobody knows Putin except the Prime Minister. That's why I say you've known Putin for 12 years. What's changed in that man's head? 'Cause that guy's threatening nuclear weapons. There have been state visits and there have been Olympics. You've met and spoken to him. What went wrong there? Has that been a moment? In my opinion, you also mentioned that he leads to mischief of persecution. I would actually like to ask if you could take a look at that. And finally, of course, I wish the government much wisdom in the coming days and weeks of trial. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u138	Thank you, Mr. Eppink. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Koekkoek van Volt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u139	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Let me begin by stressing that Volt strongly rejects Putin's horrible acts of war. This conflict will continue to affect Europe in the coming years. We must therefore work towards sustainable solutions. To this end, we must also ask ourselves how we got here. In 2013, the Ukrainians were on Maidan Square, on which Putin reacted with unrest in the Donbass and the annexation of Crimea. Putin fears a free European Ukraine, and thus this war at its core is also a European conflict. But too often Europe did not honour its promise of freedom, equality and prosperity and had to abandon European values for political calculations and lobbying interests. The EU now has an opportunity to put European values first. In doing so, we must make choices that will hurt in the short term but will strengthen Europe in the long term. Mr. Chairman. Too often economic interests are the guiding principle rather than values and solidarity. As a result, our economies are heavily dependent on Russian gas and money. This makes us vulnerable. Is the government therefore prepared to make every effort to strengthen European strategic autonomy by investing more in renewable energy, jointly purchasing gas and building up gas reserves? Will the Minister argue in favour of using the Social Climate Fund to compensate for rising oil and gas prices? In addition, billions of Russian investments flow through the Netherlands every year, 89% of which reach a letterbox company. Does the government agree with Volt that this is the time to put an end to all letterbox companies? Mr. Chairman. It is heartening to see that Europe and Europeans are working together for refugees at the external borders, but the pressure on the border countries will continue to grow. Poland captures the vast majority of refugees. Hungary is in favour of the European Temporary Protection Directive and Sweden is in favour of compulsory relocation. Is the cabinet prepared to respond immediately to both calls and take a leading role in them at European level? In addition, this crisis exposes the lack of a European defence force. The use of military equipment and the contribution that the Netherlands is making to it are a good first step, as are the 20,000 soldiers who will now defend the eastern borders. But once again this requires a structural investment in our future and our autonomy. Will the Netherlands follow the German example and finally make a structural commitment to the NATO standard? We also need to look further than Ukraine, because if Putin takes the Swedish island of Gotland, he can enclose the Baltic states. What is currently being done to protect Gotland and what is the commitment of the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u140	I understand that everyone wants to look very closely at the defence efforts of the various countries and of Europe, and I hear Volt say so now. But does Volt also know that NATO spends more than $1,000 billion on defence a year, and Russia spends less than $100 billion? Is it really true that you are saying that defence expenditure in Europe can nevertheless go up considerably?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u141	The short answer is: yes, it really is. We have committed ourselves to the 2% standard. It has been said earlier today: the main focus must be on better cooperation in the military field. If we were merely to throw money at it, we would not be able to move forward. But this is the time to increase both the defence budget and to prioritise genuine European cooperation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u142	So, together, we find that NATO is more than ten times stronger than Russia. Nevertheless, Volt says 'we must stick to the 2% rate that NATO has ever mentioned', while that is not very thoughtful. We are already much stronger than Russia, and yet you say: up with that spending. You could also say, "Let's get smarter working together." Isn't that a better step?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u143	That's why I'm telling you it's both. I agree with Mr Van Dijk that only money is not going to be a solution. Why is this 2% standard important? In my opinion, that is not an arbitrary standard. But more importantly, if we agree on international cooperation, we must also fulfil our obligations, otherwise international cooperation will fall apart. That's essential here. The united actions of all NATO countries are almost even more important than the standard we set, I would say. It is therefore necessary to comply with that standard.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u144	Finally, Mr Jasper van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u145	All the way to the end, indeed. Do you not agree with me that the ultimate goal should not be militarisation of Europe and the Netherlands, but de-escalation, and that we should do everything we can to get the warring parties to table and establish a truce, without weapons and without war?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u146	We certainly agree on the latter: without war. No one wants war. As far as I am concerned, Europe's strategic autonomy must prevail. Why? That is why we can operate independently of, for example, the US, on which we rely very much in the NATO context. That is why this standard is important, because it means that we, as Europe, are also building our defence power, not to wage war, but to continue to operate as a strong and independent Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u147	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u148	Mr. Chairman. We must also realise that the modern way of war has changed dramatically. Europe must therefore take concrete steps to strengthen its resilience to hybrid warfare and to prevent the spread of disinformation. This means an integrated approach to disinformation, support for independent journalism across Europe and an effective, supranational European cyber defense with a mandate for offensive cyber actions. My question is what the cabinet is like on the other side. Finally, Mr President. President Zelensky is applying for EU membership. Among other things, Von der Leyen and Poland are in favour of negotiations on EU membership of Ukraine. Ukraine is a part of democratic Europe. Will the cabinet seriously consider this option? Will the Netherlands show Ukraine and Russia that Europe is not abandoning its allies and its values? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u149	Thank you, Mrs Koekkoek. I shall now give the floor to Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u150	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am making my contribution today on behalf of the BBB Group. Russia has violated international law. It bombed cities and invaded Ukraine without cause. This is the biggest crisis since the Cuba crisis, as JA21 said. It is essential to enforce international law. Are the evidence gathered and we are helping Ukraine to ratify the Treaty of Rome as soon as possible, to ensure that the war criminals will also be punished? Or else should we set up an ad hoc tribunal? Mr. Chairman. The freezing of funds is a good first step, but these assets should not be frozen, but expropriated and placed in a trust fund. From there, the Russian assets of the oligarchs can be paid for the reconstruction of Ukraine. They should not be paid by the working Dutch or Russian people. Does the government intend to take the initiative? The Netherlands must also play an active role in the vanguard of diplomacy and stay ahead of it. This includes initiatives to offer Putin a way out behind the scenes. We are learning a hard geopolitical lesson: this conflict can have very bad turns over the coming hours, days, weeks and months. We may not be able to get any more energy. We could be dealing with violent cyber attacks. Is the crisis infrastructure now active, and do we not wait until it is really necessary, as with corona? As the Netherlands and the EU, we have become far too dependent and need to work on food security and security of energy and raw materials. We neglected that. And who coordinates that in the Netherlands? The war, inflation and sanctions cause acute pain, including in the Netherlands. Multinationals were helped in the corona crisis. Bankers were helped in the banking crisis. Now households that have an acute problem with their energy bills need to be helped. What's the government gonna do? This is not just about people at the welfare level. Mr. Chairman. Putin has achieved one incredible thing: 27 united EU countries. That's very difficult. The Prime Minister knows that. This unity is important, but the EU should not become a military organisation at once or offer frivolous memberships. Bilateral aid to Ukraine: sure. But we can regret weapons via the EU or memberships. The only thing I would like to thank them for is the way in which they started coordinating the reception of refugees from Ukraine, exempting them from visas and the like. That requires a good plan. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u151	Thank you, Mr. Ommzigt. Finally, I would like to give the floor to Mrs Simons from BET1. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u152	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. With the Russian invasion last week, 43 million Ukrainians fell victim to a terrible war. It is absolutely reprehensible that Putin has committed this attack and this violence without any cause. I would like to express my solidarity with the Ukrainian citizens and all those who are in Ukraine, and my condolences to the families of the dead who have already died as a result of this horrible violence. Mr. Chairman. Let's give top priority to protecting those 43 million citizens. There is a humanitarian disaster at the moment. That is not solved with a Dutch shipment of guns or missiles. We need a ceasefire immediately. It is good to hear that the cabinet is spending 20 million on humanitarian aid, but that alone is not enough. Aid organisations must be free to go and their staff must be able to work safely. How will the Minister make efforts to support a free and secure passage for aid organisations? And does he intend to invest in local humanitarian organisations so that they can act quickly, with the right knowledge of the area? And in what other ways is the Minister going to work for the protection of citizens? Mr. Chairman. With the attack on Ukraine, Putin is violating humanitarian law. It is a good thing that the Minister wants the investigation of war crimes following the Russian invasion of Ukraine. How will the Minister contribute to this? And is he willing to invest in local human rights organisations that can support this? The question also arises: how is the Minister going to guarantee that the military equipment we are sending is not being used to deal with civilian casualties? Mr. Chairman. If we are able to send weapons to a conflict area as quickly as possible, then we must also assume our responsibility to provide Ukrainian refugees with a safe haven in the Netherlands as soon as possible. The activation of the EU's temporary protection directive is a good start. I would like to hear what this means in the Netherlands in terms of procedure and rights for Ukrainians who are looking for a safe place here and whether this is given priority over the moratorium that has just been established. I would also like to hear from the cabinet when it can inform the Chamber again about the extension of reception in the Netherlands. It seems to me to be absolutely urgent to do so, given that the present reception is already inadequate. I would also like to hear what commitments the Netherlands wants to make with regard to the distribution of reception among EU Member States, so that Poland and Hungary can be relieved in the long term. I also have questions about how Poland is receiving people fleeing Ukraine. At first I saw this as warm and generous, but in recent days we have also received reports that a distinction is made on the basis of colour, nationality and ethnicity at the border. I would also like to know a little more about that. Mr. Chairman. We see a strong EU commitment to sanctions against Russia, especially towards Russian oligarchy. The Netherlands is guilty of enriching that same oligarchy. We know from the FinCEN reports of 2020 that ING was a hub in Russian money laundering. Follow the Money has repeatedly addressed the role of the Zuidas and enriching the Russian oligarchy. It seems that direct family members of Mr Putin are gathering land and property here in our country. How will the Minister prevent Dutch companies and banks from now and in the future being guilty of the wealth and power of the oligarchs? Is the Minister prepared to conduct extensive research into links between Dutch companies and Russian actors contributing to the emerging conflict? Is he also willing to look at the long term, at the bigger picture? The welcoming of the newly emerging, unbridled capitalism from Russia, which has been so warmly welcomed in the West, makes these abuses financially possible. For now, thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u153	Thank you, Mrs Simons. I suggest we suspend until 2:05 p.m. That's 45 minutes, including lunch break. Then we start with the answer by the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u154	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the situation in Ukraine. First of all, I give the floor to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u155	Thank you, Mr President. You can hardly imagine it anymore, but less than a week ago, the war began. Last Thursday morning at 3:30 p.m., still in the darkness of the night, thousands of Ukrainians were violently awakened by the explosions of Russian missiles. Less than a week ago, but the world before that no longer exists. With this cowardly and cruel act of war, the whole of Europe is in a different reality. War, many speakers have said it is back on our continent. Over the last few days, we have all seen the horrible images of airports and troops in streets, places where they absolutely do not belong. I would like to repeat in this House what I said a number of times before: this is an attack on Ukraine, but also a frontal attack on our peace, our stability and our continent. And it's all very well, let there be no misunderstanding about that. It's a flagrant violation of international law and of all the agreements we stand for in the Netherlands, in Europe and in NATO. We cannot and will not accept that. Mr. Chairman. We have seen more over the past week, and it is good to mention that. I would also like to say this to the Ambassador again this morning, personally, that I have great, great, great respect for the determination, courage and solidarity shown by the men and women in Ukraine. I feel that this is widespread in the Chamber, and I honestly think that is an example and an inspiration for all of us. Whatever we have seen, I shall say more about this in a moment. It is a measure of unity, of shoulder to shoulder in Europe and also with the allies in North America, which, frankly, has been a long way to go in the past. And that has also enabled us to put together a very substantial package of sanctions at great speed. And we have seen a very great degree of solidarity, of the people in our country, but also around the world. We have also seen that NATO is currently strengthening its eastern flank and the Netherlands is contributing to this. This also increases our resilience as an alliance. And yes, Putin may be taking countermeasures and there will be consequences for us. The Prime Minister also referred to this. I will deal with all these blocks later, but what we are doing, Mr President, is much broader. As the Netherlands, as the European Union, as the international community and as NATO, we are committed to political and economic measures and we are looking at the humanitarian side of the matter. As the Netherlands, we have done all our fair share in the field of arms supplies. We are dealing with human rights and refugees. As far as we are concerned, all registers will be opened. Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to say something about diplomacy and the diplomatic side. I would also like to talk about international law. Two are the sanctions, three the energy and the economic impact, four humanitarian and refugees and five others. The Minister of Defence will take care of the questions specific to the military, and I believe the Prime Minister will answer a relatively limited number of questions about his contacts with Putin, accession and a number of other issues. Mr. Chairman. So I'll start with the block diplomatically. Mrs Mulder but also Mr De Roon asked: can we keep the dialogue open? What possibilities do we see for that? I would like to repeat what I have always said, namely that the cabinet, before the war began, has always said that the best way forward was one of de-escalation and diplomatic contact. The resumption of dialogue is always sensible, but I would add that we will of course take very close account of the position of Ukraine itself, because it has changed. Russia has chosen a completely different path. It has all the other possibilities to continue the dialogue, not want to use it and get it right. In all these forums in which there was talk of Normandy format, directly with the United States, all kinds of other channels by official means, but also all kinds of informal contacts, which we all know have been there, there has been a completely different picture than what has happened now. So yeah, we're moving on. We will always be open to this dialogue ourselves, but we will always be as a warned person and in close consultation with our partners in Europe and North America, of course, but also with Ukraine itself. Mrs Mulder referred to a European Security Council. That is indeed the intention of the cabinet. We are of course also in contact with European partners on this issue. At the same time, that is not something you know from one day to the next, because we must, of course, first get the best out of the crisis as it is now. She also asked: how do you ensure that the European Union is not trampled between the great powers? As far as I am concerned, Europe has taken a positive surprise over the last week and a half, by sitting very fast in the sanctions and serving them with great unity. If you had asked most observers just a week ago, they probably wouldn't have thought that possible. I think that is a real gain, because we all know, also from the national context: it is not that easy to agree with a very large group. Mr. Chairman. Mr Ceder asked about the possibility of evicting Russia from an international perspective. He mentioned, for example, the Parliamentary Assembly. I very much understand that thought, but that is up to the Parliamentary Assembly itself. They shall decide on the exclusion of the Russian delegation. He also asked about Interpol. I would like to agree with him that I will pass his question on to the Minister of Justice, because we have just not been able to find out at all speed. I would really like to be able to weigh up the repercussions of that. Mr. Chairman. Mr Brekelmans asked the also very understandable question whether the Netherlands would like to join a request from Ukraine to Russia at the International Court of Justice. I think it is a good thing that Ukraine has started a business there. We will follow that process closely. Legally, Ukraine has now requested provisional measures. That's what the court's gonna look at first. If the Court ruled that the case was admissible, the Netherlands could intervene if necessary thereafter. In any case, we will, wherever possible, support Ukraine in this process of justice. Mr. Kuzu asked...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u156	Before you proceed, a question from Mr. Brekelmans, VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u157	Maybe for the second term. My question was another one. It was about the International Criminal Court and that Lithuania would prepare a case about Russia's military summit, i.e. the military leadership, which is currently conducting war crimes by bombing flats, schools, hospitals. Lithuania takes the initiative to encourage the International Criminal Court to do so. My question was whether the Netherlands would like to join.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u158	Let me say it in more general terms: we are very willing to cooperate, wherever possible, in the legal responsibility of all those involved. That is why I have already said this weekend that, as far as I am concerned, we, the Netherlands, are taking the initiative to indicate to the UN that we are going to collect evidence, even at this stage of the war. Even at this stage of the war, simply bring out that evidence, because yes, there is a lot to be done that is much more urgent for Ukraine, in the humanitarian field, in the military field, in the economic field. But here's what's gonna happen. And this is very important, because there will be a moment when the conflict is over, and then we want to be able to hold those responsible responsible for it responsible. So yes to Mr Brekelmans' question, but there are more strikes to this question and I would really like to explore them all. Mr. Chairman. Mr Kuzu asked whether we would also like to launch an investigation into the use of illegal weapons. I think he mentioned cluster munitions. Neither Russia nor Ukraine are partners in the convention on cluster munitions. But here again, as I have just said, we will examine and do more than our part in all possible violations of humanitarian war law. In that light, I would like to answer his question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u159	Then there is a question from Mr Cedar, Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u160	In line with what Mr Brekelmans said, it is a good thing that the Minister indicates that we are already collecting legal evidence. I therefore also asked whether the possibility of submitting a state complaint to the European Court of Human Rights is still one of the options. You've already answered my questions. In order to avoid a second term, I would like to ask you this right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u161	Let me get this straight. Last weekend I indicated that I believe that the Netherlands should also take the legal path. That is why we, as the Netherlands, will also work within the UN framework for such an evidence bank or another methodology. I'd still like to be pragmatic about the methodology, but you want to collect evidence, and you want to have the opportunity to prosecute later. It hasn't been settled yet. We, the Netherlands, are not yet gathering any evidence. We have thus expressed a first, but essential, diplomatic intention. We will probably continue to talk about this in Geneva this week. So perhaps first of all, I will return to Mr Ceder's question in a moment, with his approval. Mr. Chairman. Then there was a question from Mr Ceder. How do I look at the recall of the Dutch ambassador from Russia? It might be good to say a few things about that too. Last week, after recognizing the rebellious areas called the "People's Republics," the Russian ambassador was summoned here. He was summoned again at the end of the week. The other way around, of course, I have also been in contact with our ambassador, who was in Ukraine until the beginning of this weekend, but also with our ambassadors in Minsk and Moscow, to verify their personal circumstances, as well as the possibilities for doing the work there. Now, of course, the recall of an ambassador is always a political signal. At the same time, when you see what the Netherlands and Europe have been doing, we have chosen, also in consultation with these and others in Europe, to leave the ambassador in Moscow, even because in practical terms the way back is not so easy. There is very good and intensive contact with him, and all the resources we are using at the moment are actually much, much more substantial than the recall of an ambassador. So I understand that very well. We have, of course, also weighed this, but we thought that this would be sensible.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u162	There is a question from Mrs Piri, PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u163	While we are having this debate, we are also seeing the terrible images coming in. We are debating here in freedom, and we see the bombs coming down in Kharkiv on a residential area, clearly no military targets, while, of course, we hold our hearts to the number of victims. As you can see, there is a very large majority in the Chamber which supports the government's commitment to the harshest sanctions. My question is, what else can we do now? You were just talking about these ambassadors; that's one of the things. The powerlessness sometimes also rises from this Parliament when you see those images coming in.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u164	I entirely agree with Mrs Piri, but I do not agree with her. She knows the same thing about me, because we've talked about it before. I think we all often end the evening with a final update of what's happening. The next morning, the first thing you do is pick up your phone and ask yourself, "What happened in the last five, six hours?" On the one hand, you can see the unprecedented courage, and the respect that it brings to me, but I think to many people, for what the Ukrainians themselves are doing. At the same time, how easy is it to discuss it here in Parliament or read it at home, when you know that people there are fighting for their lives? So I really, very much agree with that. I would like to stress once again, and I hope that this will also be clear when all three of us are done with our first term, and how seriously the cabinet takes this, and how willing we are, all three of us personally but also the cabinet as a whole, to do everything possible to show the world that this is unacceptable. Perhaps that is the way I can answer Mrs Piri's question. Again, I'm not going to be economical in that. The last thing I'm gonna do is be economical in something like recall an ambassador, for example. I just wanted to explain to Mr Ceder what the considerations were last weekend, including in the international context. But I fully agree with Mrs Piri. Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Dijk asked about the willingness of us to support the Council of Europe financially, that would be necessary. He and I both know someone who has a prominent place in it. This is an institution that can be more widely endorsed. Here's what I want to say. If it is the case that the Council of Europe is in financial difficulties, then I think the other Member States should look at that. Then I think that the Netherlands cannot be left behind in that. I have been in contact with the Council for a while, albeit briefly. I do not think they are there at the moment, but we will really look at it as a cabinet. Mr. Chairman. Mr De Roon, Mrs Mulders and Mr Van Dijk asked for an update of the negotiations. We've all seen what's been on the news. In the last 45 minutes, I have not received an update myself, but of course we have all seen Ukraine say: we are willing to negotiate, but we are not going to negotiate a surrender. I think that is entirely justified. At the same time, it is said that we are prepared to enter into the discussion. I find it very complicated to speculate on how to point that out, also looking at the negotiating delegations and at what chance of success there is. I would only like to fully support Ukraine in negotiating on their terms, precisely given Russia's responsibility for this illegal war.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u165	There is a question from Mr Jasper van Dijk, SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u166	Thank you to the Minister for the commitment around the Council of Europe. I think it is very good that this institution can continue to function fully. The Russian contribution is no less than EUR 30 million, so it may be necessary for other countries to join in, but I understand that the Minister also said so. Then we'll talk about the negotiations. I also asked whether the Netherlands, as a country which has a high priority in international law, could perhaps play a special role in this. Just think of the fact that there is a lot of talk about where negotiations are going to take place. There's a lot of discussion about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u167	If that were part of the solution, we would naturally be happy to do so. At the same time, the last thing I want us to do is to walk through a process because of our own diplomatic ambitions and to do something that would potentially not be in Ukraine's interest. There's a lot of contact. The Prime Minister is in contact with Zelensky. I had contact with my colleague through the app, even during this debate. If we are to provide that kind of opportunity where we can help, that is the case in this case, but that is also the case more widely, if we can be postillon d'amour or bring parties together in any other way, then we will never fail to do so, but we will do so only if it is useful. Mr. Chairman. Mr De Roon asked if we were prepared to promote negotiations to put an end to people's suffering. That is, of course, what is most important to us all: the suffering of citizens, who have not earned it in any way. But that doesn't mean that the blame lies a little in the middle. There's one aggressor. There is one country that has taken an attack and is bombing without any reasonable motive. So yes, we would like to play a role, but I also have to refer to Mr Van Dijk's answer on what the Netherlands can do there. I have also answered Mr Van Dijk's question on the state of the negotiations. Mr. Chairman. Mr Sjoerdsma asked what the cabinet is doing to support Ukraine. That's actually the whole palette I just sketched. I'd like to walk it through the different blocks. It is a question of military support, which the Minister of Defence can deal with in detail in a moment. It is about humanitarian aid, it is about economic aid and it is about political support. As far as I am concerned, we will continue on each of these fronts. I will, of course, return to the refugees in a moment. Mr. Chairman. I have just asked Mr Brekelmans about the International Criminal Court. It was asked: is international law at issue here? Yes, of course. There's just a restraining order in the UN Charter. There is therefore no misunderstanding about this. We have dealt with Clustermunity, and so have the International Court of Justice. Mr. Chairman. That brings me to the second block, on sanctions. A lot of questions have been asked about that. Some of the questions were directed towards the possible collateral damage and the consequences it could have for the Netherlands. Following the Prime Minister's example, I would like to pour ready-made wine on the front. This is only secondary about the wallets. This is about a matter of principle. This is about peace and security. That affects all of us. So I have always argued in Europe that we should opt for a very, very substantial package of sanctions. In doing so, you have to take into account the possibility of 'probability' or perhaps you have to say 'probability' that Russia will reflect on it and will also impose sanctions on Europe. If that happens, you must also take into account unbalanced effects for some Member States that are more affected than others. It is not at all unthinkable, given the trade volumes that the Netherlands has with Russia, that the Netherlands will also be severely affected. However, I think it is right that you should say together in Europe: 'We are going to carry together, shoulder to shoulder, the burden of any retalation. We are going to make sure that we help those most affected where necessary." But that cannot and should not be a reason to lower the level of sanctions. That would really be putting the horse behind the cart. As far as I am concerned, the discussion should therefore be about mitigating, not about the or question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u168	As a CDA, we have asked questions about this at oral Question Time, and also earlier in debates with the Minister. Is the Minister prepared to come up with European solutions on this accompanying policy? If so, does he know about when that's coming?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u169	No, but I would like to assure the Chamber that I will bring that to another meeting. By the way, I did that last week. It was not so much a question of getting back in detail at the time what such a'mitigation package' would look like, if I may call it that. I was mainly concerned with helping everyone over the dam that might hesitate and thought: yes, but my own economy. I understand that reflex, because in politics and for the people in the country, the wallet is always very important, especially for the people with a small scholarship. There are a lot of countries that are simply less thriving in economic terms. So I really understand the concerns of other Member States. However, we must continue to follow the path of severe sanctions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u170	Yesterday, I spoke to a company that is in the agro-industry and is trading both in Belarus and in Ukraine and Russia. That company said we should just do these sanctions. I would therefore like to say that there is broad support for this even from the business community. But it would be nice if we were also ready for the sectors that are being hit particularly hard, such as perhaps the agricultural sector, albeit of course you could never compensate everyone. Everyone understands that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u171	I'm sure I'd like to argue in favour of that. Then I shall have to be so honest about this, too, and I am sure that it will be detailed on the agricultural tables in Brussels, in the example that Mrs Mulder refers to, or on other tables, but I think that is really the right route.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u172	In the previous debate, Prime Minister Rutte said that he refused to identify the collateral damage caused by the sanctions, because he felt that it was a matter of principle. That's what Minister Hoekstra says now. But the principle does not have to stand in the way of identifying the effects of these sanctions. The minister says he understands the reflex and that it's either-or, but of course he doesn't. Suppose a majority of the Chamber is in favour of sanctions: fine, then there will be sanctions. But it is weird, not transparent and also a little inappropriate to not even want to map out the scenarios?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u173	None of the members of your house just heard me say that. And I think it is true, but I look to the left for a moment, Mr President-in-Office, that the Prime Minister did not say that either, or else he did not mean to.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u174	Well, that's been said, isn't it? And I don't see the beginning of scenario planning yet, while Mr. Putin, I think, has a big whiteboard with all sorts of scenarios, hundreds of scenarios. Only in box K has been said here: no, we are fully behind Ukraine and we are going to do so as one man; we are going to carry those burdens together. That's all fine. If we want that by a majority, then of course I accept that. But it is logical that, in this debate, the consequences of military support should come on the table. What are the consequences of economic sanctions? What's it gonna cost? What's gonna happen when the gas tap is turned off? So what are we gonna do about Groningen? So we're gonna open Groningen? Those are all things that you have to do at least. You'll have to discuss it together. Then it costs a bit and then the other one costs something, and then you can still say that we're all gonna pay for it, but you must have mapped it out.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u175	However, I would like to reply to Mr Van Haga's first question. He believed in my reply that the cabinet would not be prepared to assess the potential impact on the Netherlands of possibly retaling Putin. The cabinet, and I also think that the European Union, will certainly be willing to do so, if only because you have to do so in order to see how you are going to mitigate: who will pay which part of the account and what do you perhaps have to solve together? That discussion will certainly come. I do not think that you can do that at the moment, because at the moment, as I know, Russia has not yet declared a retreat towards sectors, towards the banking landscape or other institutions in the European Union. You're gonna have to know what that retelling looks like before you can talk about how much that hurts and how you're gonna mitigate it. But I don't disagree that you have to map that out.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u176	At least it is nice that Minister Hoekstra agrees with me that you need to map it, but that uncertainty is precisely the basis of scenario planning: what do we do if the crane is turned off a bit? What do we do when an atomic bomb is thrown? What do we do if there's no gas coming our way at all? Can we mitigate that by turning Groningen open again, for example? Those are scenarios. That it's insecure, I get it like no other, but those scenarios need to be dug in. They also need to be shared with the Chamber so that we can see what we decide on.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u177	I cannot give the ultimate answer to each of these elements in this debate, but I can refer to the specific pieces of portfolios of colleagues who are currently working on them. I'll report that in a minute. For example, Minister Jetten is looking at the consequences and scenarios in the field of energy, in the short term and in the long term. Others in the cabinet are naturally busy with this. My answer was specifically about Mr Van Haga's question, which I understood so well that he had the impression that the cabinet would not be prepared to assess the economic consequences, there would be a restoration. The cabinet is certainly prepared to do that. Moreover, I think it would be wise to do so in a European context as well. Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Dijk asked: how do sanctions affect the oligarchs? It is not about such a large group, but even if it is only moral, it is very important to me. That is exactly why we have expanded this group every time. But already in that first group we have placed almost the entire Duma and also all kinds of others from the military, political and social establishment on those lists. We shall continue to do so. Then you come into the complicated, also legally complicated, discussion we are having in Europe about what we do with stromans, with family members and others who have that money in their accounts, which means that you cannot access it. We're looking at that, too. This is not easy because this property right is very fundamental in our country, in Europe. But that's also what we want to look at.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u178	Before proceeding, there is a question from Mr Jasper van Dijk, SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u179	Very well, but, as we have seen a few times in the debate: the Zuidas. There are Russian mailbox companies there. That's where Russian oligarchs could've stole their money. Does this government do anything, but really everything, to close that money for the Russians? Are the 388 I thought there were 388 Russian mailbox companies on the Zuidas really closed, yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u180	I actually had it on the economic block, but let me say something about it right now. I believe that, as a society, we have a moral duty to hit the cabal of those responsible for this, especially those who have benefited from the past Putin years, as much money as possible. The cabinet is therefore willing to see what else can be done in this area. By the way, you'll encounter all kinds of technical intricacies. Because the Zuidas is a container concept, but of course they're not all accounts that you just see one-on-one at Rabobank or ABN. Of course, that's often about concealing structures. It's no easy thing to do that. But I'm really interested in it myself. The cabinet is also interested in what we can do more about it. We have been talking about it for a while: I think it is wise that we should promise that finance will come up with details on how to handle it. 'Cause I can't shake it right now. But it's essential.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u181	That's very nice. Thank you for that commitment. I believe that we as a Chamber should be fully aware of this, because it is so crucial for two reasons. One. The Dutch involvement in this. We really need to get rid of it as soon as possible that we facilitate those Russian oligarchs in Amsterdam. Two. The chance that those oligarchs will also go to Putin and say thanks to sanctions: stop that war. That would be the most beautiful thing. Does the government share that opinion?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u182	Let me put it more generally. I have just said how much I admire the courage of those in Ukraine who are willing to defend their country and clearly show that they are willing to give their lives for that. But I would also like to express my great admiration for the people you see in Russia, in Moscow, on the streets. Because that is just as different from standing where Mr Van Dijk stands or where I stand, when you are then bullied in a van and you don't know what happens to you. So I have great admiration for that. What I naturally hope, what we all hope, is that it will ultimately affect Putin's behavior if enough people are able to do so and dare to do so, for example because they are touched in their wallet and think: it can no longer be done in our own country, in Russia. Mr. Chairman. I had arrived at Mrs Teunissen's. He had a question about SWIFT. Maybe I can say a few things about that. Because that is a subject in which Chamber and Cabinet, at least in my observation, have actually pulled the same side of the rope over the past week. Or maybe I should say a week and a half. I am very pleased that we have taken a very fundamental step there. If you turn back the clock for a day or five or six, we remember that SWIFT was actually put out of business at the time, that it was said that the consequences would be so enormous and that it might also have consequences for Europe, which in itself is right. However, we do have SWIFT on the table to an important extent by continuing this discussion step by step. I think that is a gain, because I agree with what I said earlier, if you find such an extreme situation with such disproportionate violence that is so contrary to international law, then you should set that bar very high yourself. Then it makes sense for you to look at SWIFT. This is really not due to the Dutch cabinet, but we, as a cabinet, have made a real effort to do so in Europe and North America, including in our bilateral contacts. It's very good that that's on the table now. As far as I'm concerned, we're gonna keep singing that song. Then there is a question from Mr Brekelmans, also from others. It was about Belarus.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u183	Before you go any further, I think Mrs Teunissen of the Animal Party has a question on the last point.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u184	The Minister is right to point out that SWIFT exclusion has and can have a major impact on both Russia and Europe. Here's the thing. If the oil and gas industry is excluded from payments, Putin will be greatly affected. That hits the warhouse hugely. Of course, that also affects Europe enormously at the same time. My question was, even in the first term, whether the Netherlands was committed to excluding oil and gas, and, of course, to having a scenario in mind for what that means for Europe. Has he at least considered the option of excluding the oil and gas industry from SWIFT?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u185	That question was actually in the block of energy, which Mrs Teunissen will understand, but let me answer it now. Honestly, that is, of course, a concern, especially among those countries that are much more dependent on Russian gas. I understand that, too. Those kinds of sanctions are easily proclaimed, but if you have to explain to half your population that the heating is no longer able to handle in the next six months, then you have a different story. So I understand very well that the Members in Europe who are very much in favour of sanctions also point to these concerns. In my view, the profit that we have said together in Europe is: 'We are taking this step now. We are going to map the consequences of this, including for energy supplies. Then we're going to try to mitigate it." That's a bit different from what you're saying: we're going to stop importing every molecule or drop on the top of the line one day. I do think that is what I said earlier in this Chamber, namely that we need to speed up the process of becoming energy independent. One of the Members was right to say that, in my opinion, it was Brekelmans or Sjoerdsma who looked back and said 'if only we had' not so much sense. I very much agree with that. At the same time, you just have to note that we all, including in this house, have not done any work on energy independence. In this light, this is a missed opportunity for the Netherlands, but also for Europe. We'll have to make it up to you with speed. That assignment is there for the Netherlands. This task is also wider in Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u186	But it is important now that we do everything we can to isolate Russia as much as possible and to really tighten up the sanctions. In this context, my question is: is the Netherlands doing everything? Is the Netherlands considering a SWIFT exclusion in order to exclude payments from the oil and gas industry? Was that the bet?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u187	Our commitment has always been to go as far as possible with SWIFT. That's what I've been saying publicly. That is what I have always said in my contacts with the Chamber. At the same time, I understand that colleagues who have a much greater dependence say: we are also in favour of the SWIFT measure, but we do want to have a map of what that means. Think, for example, of whether in all these millions of houses, especially in eastern Europe, heating can still be used and whether the industry can still run. That doesn't change the fact that I think there's nothing out there that you're putting out and you're saying we don't want to do that anyway. So I'm also willing to see what you're going to do in the field of energy. Just, you're gonna have to do it together. Because what's the other part of my bet been? That is what it is every time with the 27 in the European Union, but also with the United States, Canada and Great Britain, because if you lose one of those, then we know exactly who wins.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u188	It is good that the Minister says that he wants to see what we can do now, in cooperation with other European countries. But do I understand that there is still some possibility and that we can indeed take these sanctions a step further by continuing to decouple payments, including from the oil and gas industries?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u189	No, I want to say it very precisely. I have always said: as far as I am concerned, we will continue with SWIFT. The cabinet is really very willing to do that. But I think it is a huge gain that we are now over the formal bump, because I would like to remind you that on Wednesday, Thursday or Friday last week no one really wanted it. There was great hesitation about it; let me put it this way. The Netherlands is ready to go further in the area of SWIFT. That means including even more banks. However, I think that it is fair and reasonable that every time you consider what that means for energy supplies and also allow colleagues in Europe to take that into account. In addition, you say to each other: we really need to make haste with energy independence. See also Germany's plan for the additional terminals. See also the talks with Norway, Qatari and others to get extra energy into Europe in emergencies. Well, that's very sensible.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u190	I understand it's all very complicated business, but as we speak here, bombs just fall on a residential area in Kharkiv. Mr Piri pointed it out. If we are serious about this, anyone who has said this: the Prime Minister in a fine statement and almost all the colleagues here in the Chamber must really go through with it. In order to really hurt Russia, you should actually go on to boycott the energy that comes from it. That's not even part of disconnecting SWIFT. There are other ways: by not buying them in there anymore. I would like a much clearer answer from this Minister for Foreign Affairs. Is he going to call on his colleagues to actually take that step?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u191	I have said, and I would like to repeat this, that we want to take further steps in the area of SWIFT. We are also prepared to look at everything in the field of energy, but I think it is essential that we stay together in that group. Given what our energy market looks like, this is much easier said for the Netherlands than for those who are 80% dependent on Russian gas. Especially if those cannot mitigate that in the short term, I think it is essential that we keep the whole group together.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u192	This is a repeat of the answer given just now to my colleague from the Party for Animals. I put the question in a different way on purpose. I understand you're gonna hit everything if you do it via SWIFT and that's not gonna be possible anymore. But countries can also scale down. It may not be possible to go straight to 100% boycott tomorrow, but if we transfer only half of it or less by the end of this week instead of 600 million, then that is already a gain. I think we should get to zero as soon as possible. This means that the Netherlands must consider how we can save even more energy: what does that mean and what sectors are affected by it? I am thinking, for example, of ornamental farming. I don't have to think about it, but at the stage of the conflict we're in right now, we can't rule anything out. I want to know from this cabinet whether it is taking these steps in the Netherlands, how we can use less gas so that we also have to take less gas from the Russians and how we talk about it with other countries. So not to arrive again with SWIFT, but to talk specifically about energy: how are other countries addressed and what does the Netherlands itself do?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u193	I'm surprised anyway, because I've just said it clearly and I've also pulled it apart. With regard to SWIFT, we are prepared to go much further and to add more banks. By the way, you are immediately in this energy debate, because why are countries hesitant about adding even more banks? Because they're afraid they won't be able to pay their energy bills anymore. That's one. Two. The Netherlands is willing to look at all these things, if you can take the others into it. I think it makes perfect sense that you're looking... the following I've always indicated and I've reported it again today. Over the full palette the stakes have been: let's look up the absolute limits of hitting Russia to show that we really mean it. This also applies in full width to energy. Only, I think it is essential that you continue to do so with Europe and North America.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u194	There is no one who says you shouldn't; I'm not saying you shouldn't. It's about what extra step you're taking. I am talking about saving 10% gas in the Netherlands if we stop producing fertilizer and intervene in ornamental farming. 10% is half of what we import from Russia. The same applies to all kinds of other countries in Europe. Are you having that conversation? You dare there...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u195	Yes, sir, but, Mr. President...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u196	Do you dare to take the lead in the Netherlands? Because given how the conflict continues to escalate, we need to move forward. The best way to deal with Putin is to make sure they don't make any more money from gas exports.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u197	It will disappoint Mr Klaver, or not, but I will repeat it. We are prepared to see what you should do from the Netherlands. In the first place, this affects Jetten's portfolio. But we are also very willing to look at that in Europe. I just think I should be honest about where whose pain threshold lies. It is easier for the Netherlands to shout "let's stop altogether" than for some other countries. So you also have to look at how you can potentially help those countries, what part of the pain you can cope with, what alternative energy sources you have, where you might be able to cut back, where you might be able to boost the energy transition faster. I find that all very valid questions. I very much agree with Mr Klaver. I would just like to point out that we are not alone in this area in the world and we simply have to take the others into account. But with his intuition, the cabinet is very much in agreement. Let me stress that again. Mr. Chairman. There was a question from Mr Ceder and Mrs Koekkoek about the Zuidas. I just discussed it with Mr Van Dijk. Mr Omtzig asked whether we could not only freeze the funds but also expropriate them. It is important, however, to make a distinction, and that is what we are doing in this country, fortunately, between where you can freeze and under what conditions you can expropriate, because that requires criminal law. If there are any indications, it is up to the D.A. to act in that, but the Dutch cabinet cannot do so. That can't be the outcome that Finance is going to look at. Mr. Chairman. Then Mrs Simons asked how we would prevent Dutch companies from being guilty of maintaining the power of oligarchs. Can we do some research on connections? I want to promise her that we will take this into account in the work that Finance is going to do on the sanction packages. By the way, you can also use public sources, so I tell her that along two lines. Then Mr Van Dijk asked the opposite of what we just had going on. He said: can it not be that sanctions are actually increasing support for Putin? That's how I understood him. That is very uncomfortable, but of course we know that feeling from history. We know it from countries that, for example, in the case of sanctions or bombing, or because of that, do not want to go into the conflict at all, or thereby identify themselves with their own leadership. We know these examples from the war and from all kinds of moments after that. So that's not out of the question. At the same time, I do not think that this can be a reason not to resort to these sanctions. See also everything we've discussed so far. I myself find the signals that Mr Van Dijk and others are getting really encouraging. Again, great respect for those who have the guts to go out there. Then Mrs Piri asked about Russia's propaganda machine. It is quite right that she should refer to that. It is good to emphasise once again how the truth has been handled. I am not just talking about the disinformation that has been spread by Russia in recent days. Yes, we all know that war is also an information war. But what did Putin say a week and a half ago? That those 170,000 soldiers weren't there for a raid at all. That was just a lie. And there a wide range of channels are used to spread fake news. In particular, Mrs Piri wanted to know how we look at the Commission's statement on Russia Today and Sputnik. We spoke briefly about this yesterday. It was not part of last night's package, but we did say it should stay on the wagon and we are very willing to discuss it. The dilemma for the Commission is how, on the one hand, you manage fake news and, on the other hand, you maintain free news, one of the very fundamental values in our democracy. That is what the Commission is doing.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u198	I share, of course, what the Minister says, only since 2014, I sometimes get the uncomfortable feeling that we go very far in defending freedom of speech, but slowly allow democracy to be hollowed out inside by fake organisations that spread fake news. Let me give you an example. A research journalist told me that an organisation called PAL NWS has been registered here in the Netherlands. Organised in the Netherlands, living in the Netherlands and from here spreading fake news about Putin's war propaganda towards the Baltic states. Those are exactly those examples, and how can we put an end to that? It is clear that criminal law provides the cabinet with resources there.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u199	I fully agree, because we all see how this has the capacity to undermine democracy and confidence in institutions. It is a little outside the debate, but on a very different scale, of course, America has had to deal with this and still has to do with it. You can see that this is also increasingly happening in Europe and in the Netherlands. So I would actually like to cut the answer into a few pieces. I am responsible for this and I am sure that I am speaking on behalf of the entire cabinet and I agree that you should see what you can do about it effectively in the Netherlands. This lies primarily with BZK, possibly also with the minister of OCW in terms of education and the question of how you deal with it. To be honest, I would like to take that up again. This is so essential. This is so touching on our democracy. We need to see if we've got a leg to pull in there, too. I would like to say that to Mrs Piri. The second is the specific discussion. It is about what the European Union should do now towards Russia Today and Sputnik, but perhaps also wider. The Netherlands has a positive attitude in this regard. I would like to weigh up the Commission's argument later, because they are looking at this particular dilemma. Of course, you actually want it both ways. You want to maintain the free news garage and the independent press coûte que coûte, for they are essential in a democracy. There isn't much more substantial. At the same time, you want to take that fake news. How do you do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u200	Mrs. Koekkoek. Sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u201	So I very much agree. One final comment. You can also see the following. Maybe I can do this cri de coeur after all. On all kinds of facets of this problem, you might have done things before. That is perhaps also the tragedy of democracy. Democracys sometimes wake up too late. Let us then at least be awake and follow the action of the word.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u202	I very much agree with the Minister's last words. I think they're quite justified. I had another question about that. Independent journalism is now, of course. He is very threatened in Ukraine. We saw a bit of the same thing in Belarus at the time. Are we now working from Europe to protect those vulnerable people who take care of independent journalism, journalists, but also bloggers, for example? Are emergency visas being released, for example?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u203	I really should check that out. Maybe I can come back to that in the second term. I have just indicated, to Mrs Koekkoek's satisfaction, how important I think it is. Let me not mess up this particular question with a moderate answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u204	That's totally fine, of course. Then I have a question in a more general sense to the Minister. Are we even talking about this? Is the scenario we talked about earlier today taking into account that there are vulnerable people that we need very much? I mean independent journalists, but also scientists, for example. In every conflict, the same set of people is always extra vulnerable.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u205	We all know the adage "the truth always dies first." That's because of what I just said: a war is always an information war. I welcome the fact that many Dutch, but also many international news sites on videos or texts say that they cannot be verified by the correspondent in question. Until then, you are, at least I am, namely inclined to think: it will be true. And then you read that underneath and you think, "Well, yeah." You can also read that some of those videos are from a previous war. In general, of course, the Netherlands is really committed to this. It is, of course, one of the champions of freedom of the press. We're doing a few things about that, too. Europe is doing the same. I understood that the question was what we are doing specifically in this area. I should check that out. Mrs Mulder asked what further sanctions we are prepared to take. I've said a lot about SWIFT. In full width our attitude has been: more is more. That's what we'll continue to do. What I may not have fully anticipated, but what actually works very well in the system is the following. A week ago, I thought you'd probably have to meet for a very long time and then come to a very large package in one go. But actually it turns out it's much more effective to freeze and do and enter that which you agree on. Then you keep talking. Each time a very big piece comes along. That prevents it from succumbing under its own weight and someone says: yes, but at the very beginning I read something, which I don't really want. I really have to compliment those who have thought better about this than I have, because in terms of system it works well. It's gonna take some meeting time, but we know it from home. I did the propaganda machine, we did the payments.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u206	There is a question from Mr Brekelmans, VVD, in the meantime.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u207	Are there gonna be sanctions?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u208	I do not see Mr Brekelmans' question anymore. I'm sure I'm getting a clue about what I missed.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u209	Well, in addition to that approach, that Legoblock approach where you add a block each time to build an ever higher tower, which is very nice in itself, I had asked two questions. One is about tackling Putin's reserves, that 600 billion. We now have these sanctions at the central bank, but I think more could be done on that. Two. Have we tried to stop all ongoing programmes and agreements with Russia? For example, when it comes to IT, the current software licences, and when it comes to economic programmes such as Horizon 2020, there are innovation programmes. Did we all check it out? In previous sanctions, we have talked about new things and not about what is happening now. This might be another step.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u210	I am certainly prepared to keep that on the agenda. By the way, in that SWIFT package.... that's its unique.... is touching the central bank a very far-reaching step. Maybe Iran is a precedent, but I'm not even sure. There are some speculations about how much the Central Bank of Russia's money is getting hit. Is that a quarter, a third or maybe more? I do not know either, because that is what is being speculated about in Europe. Maybe nobody knows because you have to be able to add it up. In itself, it is a route that affects Russia tremendously. I also agree with Mr Brekelmans on these current contracts. I note that countries and also the Union itself are mapping out all kinds of issues. Of course it also looks at where you can get rid of and from what you can't. No matter how unpleasant, there may also be contractual obligations that you cannot escape. I will also take this explicitly with me at another meeting.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u211	Mrs Simons van Bij1 and then Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u212	I understand the minister's done with the economic block.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u213	No, I've got to get started on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u214	Oh, you'll even have to get started on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u215	With a hunch jump, I did a few questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u216	I am going to wait until the Minister is fully informed and then find that he has probably not answered some of my questions yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u217	Of course, we hope not. Let me take a look at Mr Omtzigt to see if he still has a question in the area of sanctions. Mr. Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u218	It concerns the proposal to place the money of the Central Bank of Russia, but also of the oligarchs, including the oligarchs in the Belarusian authorities, in a trust fund. The Minister says that this is not possible, because then there must be a criminal conviction. In any case, there is a cabinet proposal from Minister Grapperhaus a few months ago in order not to need criminal convictions in the Netherlands. But more seriously, in international affairs, a criminal conviction is never necessary. For example, the United States has put the money for Afghanistan in a trust fund and now the victims of 9/11 are being paid for. Certain Afghans are angry about that, because they thought Saudis were on board and not Afghans. Since this is possible, my question is whether the government wants to take that up.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u219	I would like to make a distinction between the trust form that Mr Omtzigt describes and expropriation. I agree with him on this trust form and would like to agree with him that I would ask Finance to investigate it, even in the light of the Minister of Justice's bill that has not yet been adopted. What are the options until that bill has been adopted by both Chambers of the States-General? I spoke specifically about expropriation. For expropriation, you need a criminal title. I'd like to add the trust question to the basket.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u220	I like that it's going to be discussed in the cabinet. In the international context, we will not see any criminal convictions of those who invade for the time being. We do not see criminal convictions of states; we have international courts for that. Neither was there that conviction of Afghanistan; there is no international criminal law that has condemned Afghanistan for 9/11. Still, that trust fund was set up. So I ask you to take the initiative on this issue at international level. That could be in the UN, but also in the IMF or the World Bank, where the Netherlands is chairing the electoral group which includes Ukraine and where the Netherlands has a special responsibility. You may be wondering why I laughed. I have to laugh a little bit when I see the Foreign Minister now referring to the Minister of Finance to answer financial questions, while yesterday I saw the Minister of Finance making full speeches on foreign affairs. Sometimes I feel like they'd like to switch back to their original function.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u221	What I can say is I'm doing it in a roll. I think it is wise to leave the things that I am not primarily about with colleagues in the cabinet who do. But I have understood Mr Omtzigt's question even better in his third interruption. The trust question with regard to the Netherlands specifically affects the Zuidas. But then he made it bigger and said: shouldn't you also talk about this internationally? I think that's a fair question. This question, which concerns the question of sanctions at all, is to be addressed to the Foreign Affairs Council. I will take that question with me, also because, of course, there are international analogies for that. So I cut it in half and I make a commitment on both subjects.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u222	Mrs Agnes Mulder of the CDA and then Mr Sjoerdsma of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u223	Is the Minister also prepared to tackle and freeze the assets of European daughters of Gazprom et cetera at European level? Is that also in the sanction package that is to come?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u224	I would like to look at that, but I also need to look into what can and cannot legally be done. I fully understand the great need in the Chamber, which we ourselves have. The Prime Minister has that need, as does the Minister of Defence and all the members of the cabinet. We are, of course, keen to do everything we can. And at the same time, what is one of the things that distinguishes us from Moscow? That is that we have the rule of law so high in our minds. We cannot put them aside now. I'm gonna check that out. I think I'm doing this in conjunction with the Minister for Economic Affairs or the Minister for Climate. But I'm willing to look into it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u225	Thank you for this commitment by the Minister. Can he take with him in a next letter whether something like this is possible or not, or send a report from a European Council on this subject where it may be clear that this is an option?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u226	I admit that in the foreseeable future, through communication from presumably myself, but otherwise perhaps via Minister Ollongren or one of the other colleagues in the trade departments, this will return to Mrs Mulder.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u227	Thank you. Mr Sjoerdsma of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u228	Maybe just a little bit more about these personal sanctions. Several motions have already been adopted in this Chamber, among others by Mrs Van der Plas, asking to identify who owns all of this in the Netherlands and then to take action on it and impose sanctions against it. I would really like to know what has already happened to that and how far we are ahead of it. In my opinion, that is something that the Chamber has been calling for months, if not years, from right to left, unisono. So I'm actually curious where we are right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u229	I really should check, because that's not information that keeps State Department records. Let me come back to that in second place.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u230	I'd like that. I would add that I would like to see the cabinet report, let us say every four weeks, on what is being seized. Of course it has to be anonymized, because I understand that we are also dealing with privacy and that sort of thing. We would like to hear anonymised but clearly what we are taking up. There are all yachts at Sint-Maarten; we all know about letterbox companies where there is a smell. We want to see those results. The fact that we are taking this measure is a good thing, but we also want to see that it has an effect. That's what I like to ask the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u231	I come back to these two points, including those relating to the timetable, if I may put it that way, in the second term. Mr President, I have just been browsing through this block. I think I have answered Mr Sjoerdsma's questions about what else we can do and about the Zuidas, which is actually a special one, in a general sense. I also thought I'd met Mrs Simons twice. I will see if I can come across one of the questions in the field of energy and economics, of which we have indeed done a great deal. Mr. Chairman. Let me begin with Mr Van der Staaij's question. Perhaps I should have said this in my introductory remarks. He quite rightly referred to the economic pain for citizens, farmers and entrepreneurs. I think that's what he literally said. I hope that I have answered him with my introductory remarks on how to stand there shoulder to shoulder and make sure that you really do so in a spirit of solidarity. Mr. Chairman. The next point is that a lot of questions have been asked, which I also understand from the Chamber, about how all these things interact. We have entered a completely different world over the last week. We were already in a world where we saw, much faster than we might be used to, that the economic climate and the economic parameters were changing. We have the discussion about inflation and we have the discussion about gas prices and all of that despite a record of employment. Many of the Members' questions dealt with the following. What does it mean for the energy bill? How can you compensate for that potential? What does it mean for purchasing power? I understand all these questions very well, but I think that the cabinet itself should return to the drawing board in order to come up with a more comprehensive answer. This calls for a broader cabinet council and this affects a lot of portfolios. I would therefore like to say this in general terms with regard to the energy bill, purchasing power, VAT and so on. I think we should go back to the drawing board and see what we can and what we can't do and how the pluses and minuses of that whole account will look like at all. I have answered Mrs Teunissen's question on Russian gas and oil. I also discussed her question about the exit plan with her. I don't see her in the room anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u232	Mrs Teunissen is about right in front of you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u233	Excuse me. I just didn't look right, I say in her direction. But I would have answered her question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u234	At least that triggers a reaction.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u235	I should have looked better, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u236	This is a personal fact of Mrs Teunissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u237	I'm being provoked to show my presence. I have not heard the Foreign Minister very much about the exit plan, except that he says that it is a bit complicated and we should also look at the consequences for households. But right now, at this time, when we know that we are hurting Putin the most by putting a stop to imports of gas and oil, does it make sense that we should bet on such a switch-off plan, or that we at least have that ready? Then there'll be an emergency plan and we'll see what the consequences are. Can he still offer that, if it isn't ready yet?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u238	I have just said to Mr Klaver that I really agree with that logic. Just when you know it hurts, you have to look at it very seriously. I have just said to Mrs Teunissen and others that Mr Jetten is coming back to this. He spoke to the Chamber last week about the security of gas supply, I read here. He has promised that he will come up with a letter of inquiry, including, I quote, the Gas Protection and Recovery Plan. So I have to refer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u239	In De Financieele Dagblad, we have read that the Gas Protection and Recovery Plan is far too general and that there are still many hooks and eyes attached to it. That is why I am asking the Foreign Minister when this letter will come and to speed it up. When are we going to be able to see what that exit plan means and what the consequences are?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u240	Here's what I'm gonna do. Let me say that, if that letter were not to come to the Chamber within a few weeks, I would ask Mr Jetten to refer to the Chamber as a specific deadline. It's hard for me to make a promise about that myself, but I'd like to put it back on him. I also understand that Mrs Teunissen thinks there is a hurry. We agree, and I want to promise her that. I also say to her that I will look around the room more carefully, because that saves both of us.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u241	Mrs Teunissen, last interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u242	It sounds like a fine commitment, but we have much less time. This is precisely the point where we can increase the sanction package. That is precisely what we can do with an import stop on gas and oil, but then we need to know what the consequences are and what the possibilities are in the Netherlands. That is why I ask the Minister to come forward with this letter sooner and actually to come with it at least next week. We just don't have a few weeks. So we have to determine our commitment and...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u243	Mr President, then I'm going to...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u244	Mrs Teunissen has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u245	Excuse me, excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u246	We can also have a pioneering position in the EU as the Netherlands. The Minister states that we are taking other European countries into account, but it is logical that Eastern European countries, which are more dependent on gas and oil, do not have to jump. And then the Netherlands could be a forerunner. That is why it is especially important that the Netherlands quickly comes up with such a possibility of a switch-off plan and makes it clear what the consequences are.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u247	In all the introductory words, I had already indicated that I really, very much agree with that. I would like to repeat that once again, but I think we had really cleared that up. I understand Mrs Teunissen's impatience, and what I will do is check whether I can say anything about that term after the break. I'll check with EZK. If this were not to be clarified after the break, I would ask Mr Jetten to send a letter with either the whole story or a statement on when it will come. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Piri rightly asked about the people in need because of the increased energy prices. I would, with her permission, refer to the broader cabinet consultation, because we really need to go back to the drawing board for that. This also applies to Mr Van Roon's question on energy and VAT at 0%. Mr. Chairman. That's how I did everything in this block. I come now to refugees and humanitarian.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u248	I'm sorry if I missed it, but Belarus? Have you had that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u249	I think I did that question, but if I don't, I'm gonna do it now. No! I think it was on top of the pile, but then I got rid of it by an interruption. That's how it must have been, because it was at the top of this pile. It's crystal clear. We see what Belarus is doing, namely to change Russian troops on its territory and the constitution so that nuclear material can now suddenly be placed again. I haven't gotten it confirmed yet, but there are rumors that Belarusian soldiers might want to fight along in that war. But even if it is not, the Russian war machinery is in any case facilitated in a variety of ways. For me, this justifies the fact that all sanctions applicable to Russia apply also to Belarus. So that would be my bet. Mr President, I am with humanitarian and refugees. Let me say a few words about this. There are tens of thousands and perhaps already hundreds of thousands of people fleeing war and violence. That's also the primary and only reason they're on the run. We are always talking here with a lot of parties about basically looking at reception in the region. The cabinet is also in favour of this, but this is our region! This is Europe. So I think and the Cabinet thinks that we should look here too, together with others in the European Union and, of course, with the countries closest to us, how to do this properly for the refugees. And the Netherlands will also have to and can contribute its fair share to that. The Secretary of State for JenV is currently, as I understand it, in Europe and has talks on how to shape it. I think I have said a lot of things in this respect in relation to the questions put by Mr Sjoerdsma, Mr Brekelmans, Mr Van Dijk, Mrs Piri, Mrs Teunissen, Mr Ceder and Mrs Simons. As far as I am concerned, this is the essence. I should like to add that I believe that this was a follow-up to a question by Mr Brekelmans and Mr Sjoerdsma............................................................................................................................................................................................................... We do so in a humanitarian sense, but we do so also in the area of refugees. I find that very, very commendable. This also applies to a country which does not belong to the Union such as Moldova, where there is indeed a very complicated situation. The Prime Minister and I have been there together recently. Here too, we are trying to see if we can help and the Netherlands is also trying to provide humanitarian aid. Once again, I believe that it is vitally important, in line with Mr Sjoerdsma's question, that we also show the solidarity and unity that Europe has shown in many of these areas in recent weeks in terms of humanitarian issues and refugee issues.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u250	I share that view of the Minister. I see that happening in Europe too. A Ukrainian does not need to ask for asylum in the Netherlands; he can simply enter Europe and travel visa-free in Europe. Is it the case that the government is preparing for the Ukrainians who explicitly apply for asylum, or do you say: no, we are looking at all Ukrainians who are coming here and we are ensuring appropriate reception?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u251	My suspicion is first, but I really should check with the Secretary of State for JenV. It is precisely on this subject that it is making agreements in Europe, also because you cannot predict exactly how this will work. Is this going to be a crisis where the numbers go down two or three times? This will also put much more pressure on countries like Sweden and the Netherlands. Or is a very large part of the population almost going to show by principle that they want to stay there? So that's gonna make a lot of difference. It will also depend on how long the Baltic countries, as well as Poland, Hungary and others, can build it themselves. I also got a message earlier today that a lot of the fairly basic supplies in Poland are exhausting. This concerns all kinds of practical matters, especially in the border region. I have not been able to verify that further, but you can of course imagine that there will be a lot of extra spending there if more refugees arrive. And also, of course, items are collected there and then brought to Ukraine. None of that has been verified, but you can imagine that the pressure on those countries is increasing. Then I also think that the Netherlands should do more. Perhaps I can promise Mr Van Dijk the following, precisely because the Secretary of State is now also negotiating or discussing in Europe. I do not know whether the JHA Council will decide today or later. If he hadn't already planned to send a letter to the Chamber, I'll ask him. Because I think this can be helpful for the overview of the parties here, but also wider for the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u252	I appreciate that. I think that's very good. I think there are two points that need to be addressed. One, helping the border countries, especially Poland. And two, offering shelter as Ukrainians come this way. And then I would recommend to the Minister: look at a fair, proportionate distribution of refugees across all municipalities, rich and poor, so that we do not repeat the mistakes that occurred during the 2015 refugee crisis.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u253	I agree. By the way, I find it very impressive what I see from the people of the Netherlands about signs of solidarity. The demonstration yesterday, but also things people are doing right now, collecting goods, schools that are doing that, people who spontaneously say: I have a room left. I spoke this morning to a number of young people, all living in the Netherlands between two and seven years old. They are all Ukrainians and very concerned about their motherland, but at the same time they almost without exception said how much they were proactively addressed by acquaintances, friends, people at work from the Netherlands, who all said "hold on" and "how can we help you?"
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u254	Thank you. Mr Cedar, Christian Union, and then Mr Van der Staaij, SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u255	Mr President, thank you very much for having had an urgent debate here a few months ago because the crisis relief system turned out to be inadequate. That is why I would like to ask specifically whether the Minister can undertake, together with the Secretary of State, not only to express the wish that we should look closely at reception, but also to come up with a plan of action on reception and locations. We can all want that, but that requires a logistics process. In recent months, I have had my confidence in it, now that we have seen that it has not been possible because the legal bases are lacking. Can the Minister take that explicitly, so that we can check it as a Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u256	In itself, I agree with that. I'm just always a little cautious with big commitments in other people's policy areas. It is easy to say, but in this case it is also up to the Secretary of State to state very precisely what is and what is not there, what he can and cannot do, and how he tolerates it with the crisis and precisely the point of solidarity both internally and at European level, to which Mr Van Dijk referred. I shall therefore take part in this debate and in Mr Ceder's remarks. I ask him to reflect explicitly on that. Maybe that's how it's gonna work out, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u257	The Minister has already referred to it, and fortunately I myself know examples of it, that people spontaneously, heartwarmingly too, offer: we have, on our farm, in our place, also opportunity to take people in. My simple question is whether the letter announced by the Minister for his colleague can also address the way in which this private reception can be supported and facilitated, perhaps also supported by information.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u258	I'm sure I'd like to give him that thought. I would like to add, however, that from his political point of view, Mr Van der Staaij will also address that one of the forces of the Netherlands that is civil society, the private initiative, the fact that people are willing to take on a lot of things themselves. Sometimes it's kind of complicated to co-ordinate as a government. In fact, you sometimes get a hard grip on it and threaten to get in the way. So I'm sure I'd like to give him that suggestion. I would just like to see that great initiative that we see in society and in civil society flourish. I think that Mr Van der Staaij and I are in complete agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u259	That's right. That is why I chose my words with care: it is sometimes also about supporting with information. You see people sometimes think, "What am I supposed to look for?" I believe that the Secretary of State for Justice can also play a good role in this interplay.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u260	Agreed. I'll give him that suggestion. Mrs Mulder also mentioned what I think she called 'national shelter'. That actually went a bit in the same direction as what Mr Van der Staaij said. Her suggestions too, which were very similar but I think were subtlely different, I give them to the Secretary of State. Mr President, I am almost through. I have a few other things in the category. Mr Van Haga asked about collateral damage from the supply of weapons. Of course, we are aware of this, and I would really like to stress this once again, in the case of weapons with a lethal effect, even if they are used solely for defence purposes, as is happening in Ukraine, it is not Ukraine that is advancing to Moscow, which can have a lethal effect. At the same time, it is so essential that we allow a country in Europe to defend itself and safeguard the territorial integrity of its own country. Russia is the escalating party here, not us, not Ukraine. Mr. Chairman. We've had national shelter. There is one more question that I am honestly not sure whether it was asked or accidentally entered the set. I'll answer that question anyway, because you never know. That was about the travel advice. The travel advice for Russia has been adapted on 28-2. That's mostly orange and part red. That's because of the great uncertainty. We are monitoring this very strongly, as Members know as well as anyone else. It is important to underline once again for all Dutch people that you should not go there if you have no compelling reason for that. It is also important to recall that there you can no longer use foreign bank cards and credit cards or withdraw money, apart from the news we have seen today, namely that the stock market has not opened there and that large effects on the rouble are expected.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u261	I agree with Mr Van der Staaij. We also get a lot of messages from people who want to catch people. We call on the government to focus on where these people can apply when large groups of people from Ukraine are going to report here. Something nice about Russians. There are also Russian citizens stranded in the Netherlands. All the air traffic has been shut down. If those people even travel one day late, they'll be blacklisted here because they've crossed their visa. Would you like to express some sympathy with that group, which is not always waiting for Putin?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u262	That first point, Van der Staaij's point, I think we would have solved it. As far as the second point is concerned, I do not know exactly how well we can figure it out, but of course I am prepared to look at it. That's just such a complicated discussion when it's about Russians and visas at all. Who are those who are most likely to have a challenge to perhaps travel one more time to Germany or the Netherlands, for example? Those are the people who are going out there right now. Those are also the people of the NGOs and civil society who are doing exactly the things that we very, very, very much appreciate and feel brave. So I would like to say to Mr Omtzig that I want to see how we deal with this in a prudent, sensible and reasonable way. I have to take a look at this particular example, because I just don't know if it's operational. But I very much agree with his main idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u263	I don't want to use my interruption, but I assume the government will come back to how these people are dealt with. I understand it's going too fast right now, but I'd like it in a few days, because they need it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u264	I'll look into it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u265	Then I will go to Mrs Koekkoek, then Mrs Simons and then Mr Sjoerdsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u266	In my speech, I had asked the Minister about the appeals made by other European countries. Hungary has called for the temporary protection Directive to be used. Sweden has called for mandatory relocation. Now I can imagine that this should also be asked of the Minister's colleague, JenV's colleague. But perhaps the Minister can indicate whether this is indeed on the table and the position of the Netherlands with regard to these two calls.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u267	I understand the debate in those countries very well, but I understand that this is exactly what the Secretary of State is now discussing in Brussels. He has also previously made statements which I believe were exactly the same as what I said just now, namely that we really need to show solidarity, that this is happening in our region and that we are therefore fully prepared to help and house Ukrainian refugees. I would really like to leave the various sub-categories to him, otherwise I will go through the negotiations or the conversation he is having at the moment. I think that council is in the middle of something right now. I see Mr. Brekelmans shaking his head. He knows that much better than I do. Maybe it has already started or not, but my information was that he would talk about it in the very short term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u268	"In the very short term" I think is right. But I asked the Minister in particular because, in my view, it is necessary for the European response to be united. That is why I understand the answer very well. The details must come from JenV's colleague, but I also wonder whether they will be taken into account in the general consideration, particularly when it comes to compulsory relocation, because this can also ensure long-term consensus.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u269	Sure. That is why I have just said that I think you should be firm in saying that we have been quite critical of some of the countries of the Union when it comes to not giving them home in the refugee debate. But I can only say that my observation is that the countries that immediately border Ukraine or are very close to it are absolutely shoulder-to-shoulders, including on this subject. I think that is very positive.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u270	I forgot to tell you. I won't charge it with intent. I can imagine; there are many questions asked. The question that remains open to me was about humanitarian aid. The cabinet's paying 20 million for that. That is very nice, but BET1 is concerned about the free passage of humanitarian aid organisations. In my contribution, I asked the Minister whether he also intends to invest in local humanitarian organisations so that they can act quickly because of course they know the area well. The open question was: in what other ways is the Minister going to work for the protection of citizens? I would like to take this opportunity to say that we have also expressed our concern about the use of military equipment from the Netherlands, which may well be part of the European Union, and I will not say 'violations' at least violence towards civilians.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u271	Let me try to say something briefly about everything. Of course, Mrs Simons is right about the latter. If you supply military equipment, there is also a chance that people will be affected by it. I really think that I fully defend the approach taken by the cabinet in this regard. Ukraine must be able to defend its own territory and its own population. But Mrs Simons is right that this can lead to victims. It can even lead to victims on their own side, because every war is also characterized by what lies under that always misleading term "friendly fire." So I just agree with her. Nevertheless, I think we should do it in the balance of things. Then there is her question: do we want to make a broader effort for the people of Ukraine and for their position? I'd love to. That is precisely why we are committed to the humanitarian side; that is what Liesje Schreinemacher does in particular, but also others. That is why we also had discussions this weekend. She said: I am going to take a very big extra step. It also talks with the World Bank and others to see what else can be done along that line. By the way, the humanitarian dimension has all kinds of dimensions. It is aware of the dimension of the investments made by the Minister of BHOS. It knows the side of what the Dutch are doing in private at the moment, which I find very impressive. It knows the side of gathering evidence that is before the war or in case the conflict is at least a further stage in what has happened to citizens and how to hold those responsible responsible. So there are all kinds of elements to this humanitarian aspect for me. Together with Minister Schreinemacher and others, I am very happy to go into this for the public.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u272	On the one hand, I am very curious to know what 'go to the hole' means in concrete terms, but I will dress this question straight away with another question, to which I referred in my contribution. We see that, however painful it may be to have to bring this up in this context and at the moment, especially people from African countries have difficulty bringing themselves to safety, because they are being prevented at the border. That's one, to put it in English, blatant sign of racism. I am, of course, curious to see how the Minister looks at our responsibility in that regard. These are people who are currently in Ukraine, trying to bring themselves and their loved ones to safety and encounter an additional barrier. I would very much like to hear how the Minister looks at this and what we can do about it as the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u273	I see this first remark mainly as an encouragement to use as much parliamentary language as possible. I'll stick to that. Then her question. You want anyone who wants to get out of there, regardless of gender, gender, skin color or whatever the circumstances, to really get out. I very much agree with her. The only thing I can say about this is that I have been in touch about it this weekend, officially and with a colleague from Asia, how we can help to get others out of there. I'll just say that's very complicated. Our own ambassador is no longer here. Many countries, especially outside Europe, are in their hands because of the question of how to get their own nationals, their own people, out of the country. They use different ways to do that. The Dutch ambassador also worked with his team on the ground not only for the Dutch, but also to think with embassies from other countries, especially the countries outside Europe, wherever possible, so that they can also bring their people to safety. That's what I can say about it here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u274	I would like to thank the Minister for his answer and to put one final specific question to him. We have just noticed that we in the Netherlands are going to do everything we can to give everyone who is in Ukraine a safe and warm welcome. My question is very specific: is this also true for people who may not be Ukrainian citizens but are currently there? In other words, does that also apply to the people of color, the black people, the people from the different communities that the minister just mentioned, who at the moment are not allowed to say it, but it is so much more affected by this racist phenomenon? Are our doors wide open to them, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u275	Let me be clear about one thing: when you make an appointment about a group of people carrying a certain passport, you do not do so at all looking at their gender, age, level of education, sexual orientation or skin colour. That's crystal clear, so we will. So that applies to all Ukrainians. We've been talking about that so far. I do not now have an answer to this particular question. I'll ask the Secretary of State to include it in his letter. I do not know whether he has talked about this, and Mr Brekelmans will say: this afternoon we are going to talk about it in Brussels. I would like to leave that with him for a moment, because that seems to me to be something to make European agreements about.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u276	I have another question about that travel advice. Apart from the enormous concerns we have about Ukrainians but also about Dutch people who are still in Ukraine, I can imagine that it is also wise to take a good look at Dutch people in Moscow. Because it's not that easy to travel anymore. The minister says don't go there. But you could also say: get out of there quickly. The reason why I say that is because you can't really get out of there because of the few flight movements that are still possible, but also because there is increasing intimidation in a country where we have to observe that the rule of law and the police are not always operating as we like. I wonder whether we should not give a more explicit recommendation to this Minister, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, that it is no longer very sensible to stay in Russia.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u277	Very much so. Let me check the website again, but that is exactly what I said on television yesterday. I didn't just say: don't go there if you don't have a compelling reason read: vacation but get out of there if you don't have a compelling reason to stay there. I have also explicitly asked the Ambassador myself, I think on the weekend; it may have been Friday afternoon how he assessed the situations at that time. That is more of an uncertainty than an acute danger at the moment, but that can change quickly. It is not for nothing that we have brought the travel advice from yellow to orange, that some areas are of course red and that we really advise those who have no compelling reason to stay there to come back to the Netherlands or at least leave the country. So I agree with Mr Sjoerdsma. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u278	Yes. I think this is the end of your term, huh?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u279	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u280	There is still a question from Mr Sjoerdsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u281	Yeah, well, then I have another question. That was the part I ended my term with. We see that the European Union is now doing things that were unthinkable a few days ago. That's perfectly right. But there are also, of course, issues that do not directly touch the conflict but are very important to settle properly. I call it a European asylum policy. We have long struggled against a good distribution key, but perhaps the Eastern European countries now also see the usefulness of a distribution key. I would just like to mention the abolition of the veto in foreign policy. I would like to mention further European defence cooperation. I have asked this cabinet and would ask the Foreign Minister to do everything in his power in the coming weeks to force through this terrible crisis.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u282	In itself, I understand that idea, but perhaps I should not be so realistic in terms of content, but rather outline what 99.9% of the discussions are about. They are actually about this crisis and all its facets. We have met three or four times in the last week, I think. We also have endless bilateral contact. That's about what countries do one-on-one military. This is about what is now, regardless of whether that is the right word at all, the European Peace Facility, read: weapons. It's about humanitarian aid. This is about economic and financial support. It's about refugees. So it's very direct about this every time. I agree with Mr Sjoerdsma: what you hope is that some of the things that the Netherlands aims to do after that will be easier to discuss and have a better landing than otherwise would have been the case. At the same time, I just want to ensure that not a minute is lost for what is most necessary; and that is this crisis.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u283	Thank you. Mr. Sjoerdsma? No? This brings us to the end of the deadline for the Foreign Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u284	Yes. And with your permission, Mr. Chairman, I'm leaving the room immediately to make a few phone calls.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u285	Yeah, I think that's fine. I'm suspending the meeting for a single moment. Then we'll go to the Secretary of Defense.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u286	I give the floor to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u287	We're doing it in a slightly different order anyway, because I myself have a phone call out, like at 4:30 p.m. In this way, we do not run the risk of a gap in the response. So we turned it around after all. After me comes the Secretary of Defense. So it's nice to be able to do it this way. I have a few more questions on my property. The first question on that point was that of Mr Eppink. He asked, "What has gone wrong in the last 12 years?" I do not see Mr Eppink in the Chamber. I'm gonna answer the question anyway. He can read it back in the Acts. I think you should go back to 2011, to the Security Council Resolution on Libya in March 2011. The Russians then felt that their views had not been handled in all respects and that they had made that Security Council resolution possible. In my opinion, something has changed since then in Moscow's thinking. If you look at how that resolution has been dealt with, and also with Russia's support for it, then that can still be understood to some extent. At that time, there were excellent contacts. I was in Moscow myself later that year. He was in the Netherlands in 2013. In 2013 and 2014 I saw him again in Moscow, in Saint Petersburg and Sochi. We've called a lot and talked about this. We have also discussed the issue of the justified security guarantees that Russia needs in the longer term in order to be well embedded in the European structure, knowing that part of the country is naturally in Asia. As of March 2014, there has of course been a major change in that relationship as a result of the invasion of Crimea. The relationship has of course changed fundamentally again after the terrible disaster with flight MH17 on July 17, 2014, in which 196 Dutch people lost their lives, a total of 298 people. After that there were also intensive contacts, but that was all about MH17. That was about the influence on the separatists that I believe he could exert in order to bring the material surpluses to the Netherlands and to do research there. That was also about how we in the UN Security Council would continue to work on the trial. In the end, this did not lead to an agreement between us and Russia in 2015. So the contacts were intensive and until March 2014 also good, content. I think that Macron in his talks in recent months has tried to address precisely the following point. On the one hand, Ukraine cannot become a kind of new Finland, as Finland was in the old Soviet era, namely a buffer state. Ukraine is a country with the right to self-determination and may express its own orientation towards Russia, the West or both; whatever it wants. Ukraine must be able to decide on this with full sovereignty and territorial integrity. At the same time, there is a real debate between the West and Russia on security guarantees and how they should be implemented. I also think it is a real discussion. During the discussion that Macron and he started. Olaf Scholz also discussed it in Moscow and of course there were many other contacts about............................................................................................................................................................................................... I don't know whether he planned it or made the decision during the conversations; I can't look into his head either. But this terrible and totally in no way acceptable raid in Ukraine has been done. One of the greatest conflicts has thus arisen in this part of the world, which after the war can only be compared with the conflict in Yugoslavia and the terrible genocide in Srebrenica, but is not equal. Mr. Chairman. In that respect, I think that the line that Macron chose was good, namely talking about the legitimate security guarantees without affecting Ukraine's sovereignty. I spoke a long time about this this weekend and thank him again for that. If it ever comes to a form of de-escalation again, you hope it will be, then I am convinced that the conversation will have to continue in order to have a normal division of Russia into the world community in the longer term as well. In doing so, it is very important to discuss and, if possible, agree on safety guarantees. I say this in response to Mr Eppink, who might have expected a more psychological treatise, but I am not going to risk it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u288	The Prime Minister used the word "paranoia." That's why I expected a more psychiatric presentation. But if you see the pattern of Vladimir Putin's performance, you can see that he will continue if there is no counterpower. In the annexation of Crimea, for example, there were no real sanctions. China has built islands in the South China Sea during that period. That was in Mr Obama's era. He said leading from behind. Then Trump came. They were all afraid of that, both Russia, China, North Korea and Iran. Nothing really happened. Even the Taliban were afraid of Trump. Now we've seen Kabul. We have seen that there is a great deal of division in the United States. Think about corona and so on. Perhaps Mr Putin has thought: now I can try, because there is little headwind. I think he was mistaken, because what he has done now will lead to the creation of a genuine Ukrainian nation state. He also underestimated the resistance, as did the unity that is now there in the West. How do you see my analysis, if I may ask?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u289	I would like to see President Trump's deception of foreign policy out of that. Let me put that aside for a moment, because I think there is still a lot to be said about this, also in a more reflective sense. That is what I want to take away from Mr Eppink's speech. It's true, of course, what he says. I thought Mr Sjoerdsma or others said something about that too. In 2008 it was Georgia. In 2014 it was Crimean. In 2014 it was Donbas. Yesterday, I telephoned the Presidents of Moldova and Georgia and promised them all the support from the Netherlands in this extremely difficult time. I think it is true that if you look back on it now, the sanction packages due to the intake of Crimea should have been more robust. The same applies to the reaction of the West as a result of the events in Georgia, where a piece of that country was nibbled off by the Russians in 2008. But I can't determine, I can't see in Putin's head if that's playing into his judgment, and if he thought: then I can do this too. In any case, Mr Eppink is right in saying that he is now, of course, coming home from a cold carnival, because the reaction is so overwhelming. The rouble has now fallen 40% and the queues are in front of the Russian banks.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u290	That is what I wanted to ask: what route, what route, does the Prime Minister then see it leading to negotiations, dialogue or conversation? Because we can't sit endlessly in a scenario of escalation. We are quickly out of resources in terms of the economy, and then a Russian reckless leader simply puts the nuclear trump card on the table and scares everyone. People are scared. Where are we going? We don't know that now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u291	This morning, in the statement on behalf of the cabinet, I also said that we do not know that. It should be clear that the NATO countries will not intervene in Ukraine in a military manner. We're not gonna do that. Ukraine is not covered by Article 5. What we are doing is helping massively: with financial support, with humanitarian aid, with arms supplies to Ukraine that allow them to defend themselves and with economic and financial sanctions aimed at the Moscow regime as much as possible, not at the ordinary Russians. That's what we're doing now. Ultimately, of course, the goal is to arrive at a de-escalation of this crisis in the long term, but that can only happen if Russia withdraws fully from Ukraine. A complete withdrawal of Russia from Ukraine: that is, of course, an absolute precondition. If that happens, the conversation can be resumed, after, of course, the discussion about the enormous humanitarian damage that has been done in Ukraine has first been held. But one way or another, a discussion with the Russians will have to be resumed on how to reach more structural agreements on mutual security guarantees in this part of the world. But that can only happen after Russia has completely withdrawn from Ukraine. We are again calling for this. Mr. Chairman. Can I connect this with another question, which was asked by whom? Do I not really know anymore about issues relating to Ukraine's accession to the European Union or not? I do not think that is a good discussion at the moment. A discussion that I consider to be much more relevant, which I have had with Zelensky, but also with the Presidents of Moldova and Georgia, is about how we can ensure that we as the European Union are much more committed to these three countries, that we recognise their ambition to focus on Europe and that we look together with them at ways of making use of all the opportunities that still exist in the Eastern Partnership to achieve even more intensive cooperation with these countries. I do not think it makes sense now to talk about the desirability or not of full accession of these countries to the European Union. This does not seem to me to be the time. But it is time to consider what scope exists within the existing association agreements. These countries need to see what we can do in the short term to help the populations of these countries, Ukraine, but I really add Georgia and Moldova, because that is where the fear is now that we are standing shoulder to shoulder with them, that we aim to ensure that the violence in Ukraine stops and that the perceived threat towards Moldova and Georgia disappears again.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u292	I actually agree with the Prime Minister. Does he agree with me that Mrs von der Leyen's statement of offering Ukraine membership of the European Union was premature and was actually a slipper?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u293	I don't think she offered. What she is saying is that in the long term it can see for itself that Ukraine is joining. The position of this cabinet would be: there are procedures for this. We do not think that the desirability of this is going to help at the moment in resolving this conflict. It is now much more relevant to look at the short-term possibilities of engaging with each other even more strongly. Yesterday I had Charles Michel, President of the European Council, on the line. I made a suggestion to him: could you not see how, in addition to the ordinary consultations in the Eastern Partnership, you could, for example, achieve closer cooperation between Ukraine and the European Council? Because there really are other possibilities. But enlargement of the European Union is, in good Dutch, a tedious and complex process. You can also see it at the moment with Albania and northern Macedonia: then we finally decided to open accession negotiations and then Bulgaria blocks it again. That is so complex and so long-term that we are not going to help Ukraine at the moment. We are going to help them with practical help and to give them practical support in their clearly expressed ambition to focus on the West, without saying that they obviously have every interest in keeping a strong relationship with Moscow in the future, when things are hopefully normalized again.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u294	The Prime Minister calls talking about Ukraine's accession to the EU at the moment 'not on the agenda', 'not useful', if I may sum it up like that. I have said myself that I find it dangerous, provocative and reckless. That goes a little further than what the Prime Minister is saying here. Can he also agree with the words I used?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u295	It is not always the case that Mr De Roon and I use the same words. There have been times when we choose different words, and you can see that here too. We both have to live with that. Can I say in my own way that I don't think it's a case yet? I visited Kiev a few weeks ago with Wopke Hoekstra. We talked a long time about their ambition to join NATO and the European Union. We talked to each other to park it, because it is extremely sensitive and complex. There are all kinds of different views about it and at least it is a long-term process. Isn't it much better to look at how, in the short term, we can achieve closer cooperation with defence within Europe, and we are his family and we are on the same continent? There are a lot of possibilities for that. I agreed with Charles Michel who said this morning that the agreements in the framework of the Eastern Partnership really offer even more opportunities to deepen them.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u296	The Prime Minister insists that he doesn't want to go along with my words. Fine. It's up to him. But then there is the question: are you going to tell Mrs von der Leyen, of course, to say what she wants to say to anyone who wants to go in the right direction, whatever that may be?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u297	No, I'm not. Mrs von der Leyen has said how she sees developments in the longer term. I'll leave the longer term for the longer term. We agree widely in Europe that we need to see how we can achieve practical cooperation and solve the problems. We must also say to the Ukrainian people: we stand for your territorial integrity and your sovereignty. This means that we will not accept Ukraine being forced to become a kind of neutral buffer state between Russia and the West. It is my belief that, should the case ever normalize, Ukraine has an interest in having a very strong relationship with the West. Mine's a lot more intense than he is now. Again, I am not talking about accession, but he should be more intensive. At the same time, given Ukraine's location, it is obvious that Moscow will also have to seek normal cooperation with Ukraine and Kiev, no matter how far it is today.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u298	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u299	Mr. Chairman. I come to two questions that have still been asked. One was about the national crisis structure. It's not active. Decision-making is currently taking place in the Intelligence and Security Council and a special sub-committee on Ukraine with the most concerned ministers. It has been coming together very frequently for weeks; twice this week, tomorrow and Thursday. We are also in permanent contact with each other. In the various ministries, all preparations are also made with the vital sectors and the decentralised government to be prepared in the event of developments requiring a response. If that is the reason, I can decide at any time with the Minister of Justice and Security to allow the national crisis structure to enter into force. The introduction of this structure must have added value and it does not currently have it in relation to existing structures. Once again, there may be a more acute situation, and that structure would be useful because it would ensure rapid integrated decision-making in the event of concrete threats. But that is not the issue at the moment. Finally, Mr Van Haga's question as to whether I am prepared to play a neutral role in the negotiations with Ukraine in the near future. Maybe I can say the following. We're not neutral. We're gonna find some of this. I made this perfectly clear in my speech this morning on behalf of the cabinet. Putin goes far, far beyond what we feared, including the nuclear threat he added yesterday. The time of hope, watch and wait is over. Neutrality will neither stop violence nor guarantee safety in the Netherlands. It is now important that we stop Putin together with our partners in Europe and NATO, and we will make our contribution to this: political, humanitarian, financial, legal, military and, of course, economic.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u300	I fully endorse the last point. I have a question on the issue of the national crisis infrastructure. I understand that it is not being set up now, but I can assume that all the preparations will be made for the two scenarios that have already been discussed here, namely the acute cessation of energy supply and a massive cyberattack. There will undoubtedly be other scenarios that we do not need to discuss here. Can I assume that active preparations are being made for how this kind of blow can be dealt with?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u301	Absolutely. The examples are, of course, completely spot-on. The answer to that is simply yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u302	I'm struggling with it a little bit. One of my questions hasn't been answered. Then it'll be another interruption, because I have to ask that question again.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u303	We're gonna hear it. We're gonna see.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u304	I'll introduce him a little bit. Citizens don't want war. Politicians want that. When you send boys and girls to the front and ask to die for the cause, that's a lot. I think you should be willing to make that ultimate sacrifice yourself. I have therefore asked the Prime Minister in my contribution if he is prepared to die for Ukraine. If we are taking all this kind of escalating steps, then people are dying because of the things we do and then you have to dare to make that sacrifice yourself. I said in my contribution that I was prepared to do so for the Netherlands. I still am. Are we now prepared to do so because of this escalation and is the Prime Minister prepared to die for Ukraine?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u305	To be honest, I find the question out of order. I really leave that with Mr Van Haga. I'm not going into that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u306	I think that's really ridiculous. The prime minister is also from 1967. I was employed at the time when the Prime Minister was organising debate contests for the JOVD. There is a significant difference between what we are doing now to defend Ukraine or to prevent the escalation of the entire conflict in Ukraine and what we ourselves should do to defend our country. You can differ on that, but at the moment you take steps that cause people to die, you also have to see for yourself whether you are willing to sacrifice your own son or daughter for that and whether you are willing to risk your own life for that. I conclude that the Prime Minister himself is not prepared to do so, but is prepared to give all kinds of strange orders from his Tower which will cause people to die. I find that objectionable.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u307	There is no military presence of Dutch troops in Ukraine. Ukraine is not covered by Article 5 of the NATO Treaty: an attack on one is an attack on all. Ukraine is, as I just said in the context of another question, family. It is part of Europe. It's part of our community of values. It may not be a perfectly functioning democracy and the rule of law, but it is a rule of law and democracy that functions significantly better than that of Russia and with leadership that has every ambition to further improve it. That country has every right to count on our support, humanitarian, political, economic, financial, but also military supplies. We're not going to fight the Dutch in Ukraine. I do not know exactly what Mr Van Haga is all about, but if the essence of his speech is that the Netherlands should stay away from this conflict, if that is apparently the essence of his speech, then I fundamentally disagree with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u308	Mr Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u309	Mr President, I would like to add one more sentence, including for the Dutch people who are going to be affected by this policy in the near future. It will have effects on our economy. That's what I said in my statement this morning. It may also have an impact on energy prices. Gardeners and other industries can also face counter-sanctions from Russia or are now subject to the sanctions imposed by the Netherlands against Russia. These could also be sanctions from Russia reciprocate to us. We do this because it is about defending what is dear to us, namely our freedom and our democracy and our rule of law. Ukraine, as someone said this morning, is about as far away as Madrid or even closer than Madrid. That's exactly the problem. If you allow this to happen without intervening, then we run a very serious risk, not only that Ukraine is being trampled underfoot, but also that ultimately our freedom, our eastern flank and also that it has a direct effect on the security here in the Netherlands of our 17 million Dutch people. That's what I'm here for.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u310	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u311	That's why we're doing this and not because we're passionate about something. We are doing this because we believe it is necessary to defend that international legal order, also in the interests of our country and of this part of the world.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u312	We can then passionately disagree on that. The moment you ship 200 stingers to the Ukraine, people die. Of course that is not a Dutch life, no Dutch boy or girl dies because of a stinger. But those stingers are gonna kill people. You take sides with it, and you escalate the entire conflict with it. I find that objectionable. The moment you put those stingers on transport, you have to ask yourself: am I willing to sacrifice my own son or daughter for that? Am I willing to give my life myself? Well, this Prime Minister has shown that at least he hasn't enlisted. At that point, he wasn't going to. I have another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u313	No. You use a lot of your time to say all kinds of things. I will allow one more specific question and then it is done.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u314	Okay, fine. Everyone is invited to join the fight in the Foreign Legion in Ukraine. How do we deal with that? If Dutchmen in Ukraine start fighting in a foreign legion, will they lose their passports? Are you allowed to join strange military service or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u315	That's what the Secretary of Defense is about to discuss.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u316	Then I would like to thank the Prime Minister for being here. The Prime Minister is leaving the Chamber at 4.30 p.m....
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u317	I'm gonna stick to the debate, you know.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u318	... foranimportantcall. We'll clean up for a while and then I'll give the floor to the Secretary of Defense.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u319	Thank you very much, Mr President. It's a dark time for Ukraine. It is war on our European continent. Our European security structure is literally under attack. What seemed unimaginable for a long time has now become reality. I too would like to begin by expressing my solidarity with Ukraine. We see people there leaving their home and fireplace, we see them in shelters, we see rockets crashing and tanks driving through the streets. And we also see massive resistance from the Ukrainian people and from the armed forces. I find that impressive and courageous. I am also deeply concerned about the people of Ukraine and the military who are defending their country there. It also feels powerless to stand here. At the same time, there is much we can do. I would like to respond to that, because we are not abandoning Ukraine. We need to show Putin that the road he's taken is a dead end. Of course, I also have contact with our own soldiers. They shall be deployed and placed in a higher state of preparedness. In recent days, for example, I have spoken to military personnel on Volkel Airport, who are now flying daily to protect the airspace in Eastern Europe. I spoke digitally with our soldiers in Lithuania yesterday. Several units of the Air Force, the Army and the Navy can be summoned and deployed. That means something for these people and for their neighbors. That is why I think it is important to express my respect and appreciation for them here in Parliament. Of course, I am also in close contact with our allies, our friends in Europe and in NATO. It has already been said today: our unity is our greatest strength at the moment. Very large steps are being taken; this has also been recalled today. As regards the two announcements made yesterday by the German Chancellor, you can indeed say that this is a very exceptional moment in history. And exceptional moments in history are marked by exceptional steps by countries in this history. We've already talked about that. I think we should say to each other that peace and security are not free. We're gonna have to pay each other a little bit for that. Mr. Chairman. Here's what I want to do. I would like to briefly comment on the situation as we now know it in Ukraine, including military. Then I would like to answer the questions along a number of lines: nuclear, support for Ukraine, cyber and the hybrid threat, NATO and readiness, the EU and EU cooperation, and the 2% standard and our Dutch Defence budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u320	Before you start after your introduction, a question from Mrs Piri of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u321	My group shares the Minister's words. We do not always realize how important our armed forces are, the men and women who work for us day and night. I think this is a good time to at least express our appreciation on behalf of my group, but I am sure on behalf of the vast majority in the Chamber. Before you answer the questions, the following. We know that while we are debating here, the most terrible things are happening in Ukraine. Now there are several reports that the bombing of Kharkiv has been fired with the forbidden MLRS-clustermunity. If that's true, it might mean thousands of deaths if this goes on. It would also be the greatest war crime since World War II on this continent. So my question is, can you confirm those messages?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u322	Thank you for the words of appreciation just said by Mrs Piri. Whether these weapons have been deployed, I can't confirm now. Of course, that's something I have monitored closely. I understand Mrs Piri's question, but at the moment I cannot say that. Let's agree that I'll inform the Chamber about this kind of thing, publicly if possible and confidentially if necessary. Maybe I can just keep going right now. Mrs Piri rightly said that we see the situation unfolding. The situation is, of course, constantly evolving. We know that at present the regional capitals are still under Ukraine's control, that there is strong pressure from Russian land-based units and components and that there is also an intensification of the Russian operation. This can change at any time. We work cards. I have here a map that is unclassified, I say to everyone who has questions about it, on which we keep a close eye on the military developments and thus remain up-to-date on these developments. But it is also important to say that I will only be able to come out with information if it is also confirmed on our side. This is very often not the case at the time when social media or the media are reporting on matters. The situation as I know it now is that the Russian forces have not yet managed to reach Kiev, but that they are approaching close. The front line is about 25 kilometers northwest of Kiev. That means they've reached the edge of the suburbs of Kiev. Then back to what it was often about today, the nuclear threat. Indeed, if Putin announces that the Russian strategic nuclear deterrent force will be put in a higher state of preparedness, it will be the first time since the end of the Cold War that the state of preparedness of the Russian strategic nuclear force will be increased by the public and in a conflict situation. That is a political signal that is clear and extremely worrying. With this step, I think we can say that Putin has just crossed a line again. This also shows the contours of a new post-conflict security paradigm. We are, of course, very concerned about that. At the same time, it is also incredibly important that we de-escalate, call for de-escalation and not go along in another step on the escalation ladder. Mr Van Dijk's question, which was on this subject, I should like to answer in this way. It's very disturbing, it's also unacceptable. We take it seriously, but we remain calm in our alliance and we do what needs to be done. What needs to be done is to give that support to Ukraine. We have also informed you over the last few days about what the Netherlands is doing. We have informed you about the weapons and military goods that the Netherlands supplies to Ukraine. The provision of such military support remains of real importance in the current circumstances. That is firstly because it enables Ukraine to exercise its legitimate right to self-defense. They have that legitimate right. Perhaps I can say that in addition to what has just been said in the debate on the interruption. Countries under attack have a legitimate right to self-defense. The aid we are sending is actually determined by Ukraine's demand. We are in contact with the Ukrainians about this. The additional material that has been made available in recent days indicates the seriousness of the situation. You have seen that the Netherlands is not only in this, but that several countries are now doing so, including those that previously chose to supply non-defension equipment. We strive to deliver to the equipment as soon as possible. We do that together with allies. On Sunday afternoon, a cargo took off with an air cargo to a collection site in the border area. We're communicating about that, too. Questions have just been asked about this. It's important to communicate about that. Of course, careful consideration must always be given. Can we communicate transparently without taking operational risks? That was the case here. So transparent where you can, and if you can't, you won't hear about it. I would like to stress that communicating on this issue is firstly to support Ukraine and secondly to strengthen our message, including to Russia. Then there are questions about the effects of supplying weapons. First of all, what is the effect of displacement on one's own organisation? This has already been requested in previous debates. I have said that it is almost impossible to supply weapons, or military goods, without any kind of displacement effect. So there must be an opinion on that. The military judgment when it comes to delivering is that it's possible. I've reported that to the Chamber before, including in the letters. That was the delivery of the sniper weapons, the stinger anti-aircraft missile systems and the Panzerfaust anti-tank weapons. Then we'll address the DOD's operational stash. It has displacement effects, but they are limited. The Defense Department will ensure that those supplies are quickly replenished. Mr. Chairman. Then there is Mr Brekelmans' question as to whether the budget is perhaps an obstacle to what we can or cannot deliver. At present, the budget is not an obstacle to material support. As I said, it is made available from the stocks that are there and we are going to supplement them. In addition, we saw yesterday that the European Union took a decision on addressing the European Peace Facility. This is an aid package of 500 million, of which 450 million is intended for lethal aid. The remaining 50 million is for fuel, medical facilities, protective clothing and that sort of thing. What we've already delivered, we've covered from the cabinet. That's what the Chamber was informed about. We're still looking for additional supplies. In that case, it will also be ensured that there is cover for this. Finally. Mrs Simons asked to ensure on this point that the material we send does not lead to civilian casualties. I would like to stress that we are doing this because we want to help Ukraine defend itself against Russian aggression. There is only one culprit to what is happening now, and that is Putin, who has sent his armed forces to Ukraine with these enormous amounts of weapons and units for no reason whatsoever. So it's in the context of self-defense. But, of course, in a war situation, you can never completely rule out civilian casualties. It is entirely intended that the weapons can only be used by the Ukrainian armed forces to defend themselves against the Russian armed forces. Unfortunately, I cannot guarantee 100%. This whole war, of course, has enormous risks and requires victims on the Ukrainian side. We're just watching it happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u323	There is a question from Mr Brekelmans, VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u324	It is good to hear that we can deliver what is being requested now and that we can do so from existing stocks. Unfortunately, of course, there is a good chance that this war will last for a while. You can actually see that Ukraine is constantly making requests for more helmets, more anti-tank weapons: more, more, more. If we assume that this may take weeks or maybe months, then the question is whether the budget is going to be tight at some point, because you need to buy new weapons and ammunition to replace the things that are being delivered. Without asking for an exact moment right now, I'm asking at what point that might get agitated. Is that a matter of weeks or is that a matter of months?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u325	It's hard to say. At least it's not a matter of weeks or weeks. What can be a matter of short notice is that we just don't have it anymore. But we're not the only country that supplies weapons. In the meantime, almost all European countries and other non-European NATO alliance members are doing so. So it's delivered from all sides. There is also intensive cooperation in transport and actual transfer. So a system has actually started, and I'm assuming that you can maintain such a supply for a long time to come. Of course, we do not know exactly how the situation will develop and how much longer it will be necessary. But let me say that I think that the financial bottleneck is not the first bottleneck that arises. That's more like the bottleneck of whether it's still available at all. I am talking about the short term in the long term, of course. How do you use resources and what resources do you use? But I'll get back to you on that. I would first like to say a few words about cyber, the hybrid warfare and the disinformation warfare, which we also see. I will begin with the Ukrainian request for support in cyber. That request came in on 18 February. We had talked about this before. I have already informed the Chamber that the Netherlands is participating in the EU's rapid response team. That's the PESCO project. We decided, immediately after Ukraine's request had come, with the participating countries to honour that and to activate that rapid response team led by Lithuania. There was also contact with Ukraine and a delegation was to travel to Kiev. The day the attack took place, the whole plan had to go back overboard. There's still a search for a way. The various participants in the team are in contact with each other and there is as good and as angry as that can be kept in contact with Ukraine to see how this support can be given in a different way. In any case, the Department of Defense has cybersecurity specialists available to help. That was about Ukraine's specific request. Questions have also been asked, among others, by Mr Brekelmans and Mr Van der Staaij, about what we can do at all against cyber attacks, not only in Ukraine, but also in the Netherlands. Mr Van der Staaij also added that I believe that we should not look at the legislation we have on this issue. We have already said interdepartmentally before the attack, when the whole situation began to sign off, that we need to intensify on this point; we need to take account of those cyber attacks. The Prime Minister also said just now: that is one of the scenarios we are prepared for. That is what he said in reply to Mr Omtzigt's question. The answer to that is indeed yes. So we do that interdepartmentally. Furthermore, the services are of course investigating the threat posed by countries with an offensive cyber program. We've reported that to the Chamber before. Russia is one of those countries. So cyber operations are just part of Russia's military strategy. It is very important to have the best possible view of that threat, preferably naturally before it materializes. For this purpose, the services can use different powers. They have those powers. They're in the law, too. However, we have recently noted that this was under the previous cabinet that we are currently encountering some bottlenecks in the work of the services in the cyber domain, just because of the speed. How can you do the work just as quickly as the other one, so to speak, makes the preparations? We would very much like to find a solution to this in the form of a temporary law, so that we make the work of the services and the supervisory system fit for that dynamic cyber domain. I believe that the current situation is encouraging us to proceed with this as soon as possible. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Koekkoek van Volt also asked whether Europe is taking concrete steps to improve resilience in the cyber domain and in relation to hybrid warfare. She talked about supporting independent journalism, an integrated approach to disinformation, and she also talked about the possibility of perhaps organising a supranational cyber defense. I think the strengthening of resilience is extremely important. There is the Strategic Compass that the EU is preparing now and also the NATO strategic concept in preparation. It really takes steps in the area of cybersecurity, within the EU, within NATO. The same applies to addressing disinformation. The same applies to investing in good proactive, factual communication, including from, for example, EEAS and NATO. What is not being worked on directly is a joint cyber resilience in the form of that supranational cybersecurity approach. It's complicated. International law applies, of course, also to the cyber domain, but an offensive cyber response is actually allowed in very few cases. As we work in the Netherlands, it is actually all covered by the intelligence work. The intelligence work is to a large extent a national competence. So it is very difficult to organise that supranationally. What is possible, and crucial, is that the intelligence services work together internationally. There are possibilities there. It is also possible to capture cyber effects within NATO when it comes to military missions. But that's as far as it goes. Mr Sjoerdsma suggested that more information should also be shared within NATO. Maybe I can answer that question right away. I would suggest that the Court be informed of this point through the appropriate channels. So that's a commitment I'm happy to make. Then NATO and readiness. We all saw the NATO summit last Friday. That was not only the 30 NATO alliance members, but also the High Representative of the EU. Finland was there with the Prime Minister and Sweden was there. NATO plus these three have also shown that there is consensus. NATO has once again stressed that NATO guarantees the security of all allies and that it considers cooperation with the EU, Finland and Sweden to be very important. I also believe that we must realise that the collective defence of our territory and therefore of the Netherlands can only be achieved in cooperation with others. So that's crucial. On Friday at the NATO summit, the leaders also made a political decision to enable SACEUR, the highest Allied Commander Europe, to activate NATO Response Force. That's the so-called flash power that's been reported about. SACEUR has been and immediately has been able to do so. That is, of course, a very exceptional situation, but it is important. It means that NATO can also act more quickly. That is wise in the present circumstances, I think. It's called At the Speed of Relevance in NATO language. The current circumstances justify this step, which is without precedent. It has never happened that NATO has activated this flash power, and that indicates the seriousness of the situation as far as I am concerned. Prime Minister Rutte stressed at the emergency session that the Netherlands is ready to make its military contribution to the allergic deterrent and defence. I would like to add that, of course, we always inform the Chamber. In advance if that is possible, and if it is not possible for reasons of speed and time, then at least as soon as possible. There were a number of questions about what Defense can do quickly to further increase readiness in the very short term. There are real possibilities for that. I immediately asked what they were. That is, of course, an increase in urgency in the current circumstances. In any case, we are going to ensure that we increase stocks of spare parts more quickly. We're going to continue to replenish the ammunition supplies. Where there are real problems in the mansion, we're gonna see how you can hire extra people faster. We're also going to look at strategic air transport, because there's a bottleneck there. These are the things that must be done, at least in the short term, to ensure that we can meet what NATO is asking of us. Mr. Chairman. Then there is European defence cooperation. As I said, the EU was represented at the NATO summit. Cooperation between the EU and NATO is actually more intense than ever before. Many EU Member States are members of NATO. I have seen how this whole situation has led the EU to become geopolitical. The meeting I was just at, which meant I wasn't here for a while, was a meeting of the Foreign Affairs Council in the composition of the Defence Ministers. I'll say something about that in a moment. However, this indicates that EU cooperation is crucial, especially if there is a problem at the edge of our European Union. We have already discussed with each other, including in the Chamber, the importance of boosting EU defence cooperation and defence policy. This concerns, for example, the joint acquisition of defence capacity through the EU and the European Defence Fund. It is also about using the European Peace Facility, which perhaps, when we spoke a week or three ago, we could not have suspected that it has already been released to supply arms to Ukraine. So that's how fast it can go. An important decision was taken yesterday by the European Council. It is also about European cooperation on the cyber domain, the hybrid threat. The Netherlands assumes its responsibility there. That's what we talked about in today's wired RBZ. We spoke, of course, about what is happening in Ukraine today. We talked about what we can do as Member States and how we can do it in a coordinated manner. I find it extraordinary how we have been able to discuss and coordinate this with each other in three days. I also find it very special, as I said, that we have now made the 500 million from the European Peace Facility available as aid to Ukraine. I think that says a great deal about European defence cooperation as it is developing and Mr Klaver pointed out, among other things. Mrs Koekkoek asked about the island of Gotland in the Baltic Sea. Putin speaks about other countries, including Sweden and Finland. He says that if they took the step to apply for membership of NATO, it would have adverse consequences for them. Those are, of course, unacceptable statements. That has just been said by both colleagues. Each country may decide its own future and also express its interest in becoming an alliance member. Sweden and Finland are not at the moment, but they are very important partners. Gotland is a Swedish island. NATO is working militaryly with Sweden in the framework of European security. There's practice together. The JEF, the Joint Expeditionary Force, is also working with about ten Nordic countries, including Sweden and Finland. They're not members of NATO. The other JEF countries are members of NATO. But there has already been a very extensive start with mainly joint exercises. One of them is about to start again and we're just gonna keep doing that. NATO works militaryly with Sweden and the Netherlands works militaryly with Sweden. There's practice. For that particular island, Sweden has itself taken measures to strengthen it. I cannot, of course, make any further announcements about this. Sweden can always ask other countries to help. For example, Article 42.7 of the EU provides a hook for this. Mr. Chairman. Then the last part, and then maybe I'll come up with a few loose questions. The VVD, SGP, JA21 and Volt have asked some questions about the NATO 2% standard. I think it's a good thing to say that this cabinet has already made a strong contribution by putting 25% extra on the defense side. Structurally, EUR 3 billion will be added. We are going to take great steps to improve readiness, to improve employability and to increase combat power. Part of the money will go to operational support. It'll go to new capacity. It will go to people and also to means. I believe that the current war in Ukraine shows us that the threats are real and close. The security situation is deteriorating as a result. That is undoubtedly true. We are also faced with other diverse and complex threats, also elsewhere in the world, which sometimes have to do with Russia. It is clear to me that the situation has changed dramatically. That may mean that it must have financial consequences. I would be happy to map out for the Chamber exactly what that would mean. We must ensure that the armed forces are future-proof, even in the longer term. That means that we should want to take additional steps for that longer term to see how we can grow to that NATO standard. Again, my commitment to the Chamber is the following. I don't want to talk about amounts right now. I interpret the question in such a way that the Chamber would like to know exactly what we are talking about in the financial sense. I like to map that, also because there are still new figures coming around the CEP. Then it gets a little more precise than when I do that here off-the-cuff. I would like to say that it is not just about money. It's also about absorption capacity and spending money. It's also about rules. It's about procurement rules. It's about laws and regulations. It's about things that are different for the Defense Department, because there may be problems with the sound room during practice or because there may be problems with building and maintaining the nitrogen rules. That is something that has been highlighted in the coalition agreement. So that is not something new and that has not changed now, but it does say something about how quickly you are able to use the additional resources from the government agreement and any reinforcements of it. Finally, unless Mr Brekelmans still had an interruption on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u326	We're gonna hear it. Mr. Brekelmans.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u327	Of course, I totally agree with the latter. One of the things you are seeing now is that NATO is asking us for certain capabilities, with a demand for how quickly they can be deployed. Think of the air-mobile brigade and the mechanized brigade. NATO is asking for it to be put in place within 30 days, but we can't deliver it until 90 days. In a situation like this, where there is a very rapid threat and a request can be made quickly from one of the NATO Member States at the eastern border, it seems to me that it is a priority and a matter to deal with these very things, so that we can be deployed quickly. If we make that extra budget available, then my question is: how soon will that be possible in practice? After all, that is what matters in the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u328	The answer to that is, of course, not very simple. First of all, we want to be able to meet what NATO is asking for now. Luckily, we're not the only country. At NATO they have a good overview of who has what. For example, I have informed the Chamber that NATO is now considering whether we could work with Patriots in Slovakia. We are trying to meet that with Germany. We have specific knowledge and capacity in that. Some other countries have that knowledge and capacity as well, but many countries do not. So that's a specialty of ours that I would say: "I really think that's of added value. I actually want us to just do that." Then you need to get your readiness and employability in order. But indeed, given the past periods or actually given a very long time there is actually only been built for about four, five years and invested we have not at all that ready. So NATO cannot ask us everything, so we cannot make that commitment everywhere. So we have to do it in a smart way. I do notice that Defense is an organization that is able to switch very quickly in the current circumstances. If you are asked to speed up employability and readiness, so that means that you are indeed bringing back that period from where it stood, 45 days, to a much lower number of days, we are able to fight that for each other. Mr Brekelmans asks: what could you do now to accelerate employability even in the short term? I have just mentioned a number of examples of this. So that's very practical. That is indeed about that you just need to make sure you have more spare parts available and that you can have them quickly in the right place. That's about you just having more ammo so there's more practice. This is about finding a smart solution to bottlenecks that we now have, for example in air transport. Of course, that clever solution is not starting with the procurement procedure. You have to, but it takes time. By the way, that has already started when it comes to air transport, but it takes time. That means, for example, you're going to look at things like the very good collaboration we have with the Germans. We've seen that with tanks. This could be done with aircraft, for example. Those are things that can produce results quite quickly. I've asked you to map that. I'll be very happy to inform the Chamber about that. These are the first steps we need to take, in addition to the fact that we need to have a longer-term perspective in the Defence Paper. 'Cause you build things. It'll take time. You need to know where you're going and of course you can also look at what steps you can take now. I hope that will answer Mr Brekelmans' question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u329	My question has been largely answered. I understand that the Minister cannot now commit any sums and that this is not the debate to discuss this. The Minister talks about the future extra effort and accelerations. Then I think it is good to make it clear to the Chamber what it would cost if we wanted to do this, if we wanted to speed up, if we wanted to do some extras, so that we could get a concrete picture of what we can do for NATO of what they are asking us to do. Then we can have a concrete discussion on this. The question is whether those typical decision-making moments of the Spring Note and the Defence Note, which are, just out of my mind, all in June, July, are fast enough in this war situation, given what is now being asked of NATO. I'd like to have an insight into that as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u330	I think it would be wise to include that in the letter I have just given to the Chamber. I understand Mr Brekelmans' question very well. I also think it is wise for him to say that we should not now decide on this subject under steam and boiling water. I hear the Chamber pointing in a direction. I want to make sure that the Chamber has the right information to consider this matter. Of course, the same applies on the cabinet side. So I would like to take Mr Brekelmans' points into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u331	Mrs. Agnes Mulder, CDA, and then Mrs. Piri.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u332	Thank you, because as a CDA we also asked for that operational readiness. Can the Minister also indicate the deadline for sending that letter to the Chamber? What does she expect?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u333	That's a good question. I could've expected that one. I would like to have a word on that and then I will come back to that in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u334	My question is actually about the readiness of the Defense Department. We're all looking at the armed forces now. We have just talked about arms supplies to Ukraine. We have talked about protecting our own territory and our NATO counterparts. The PvdA Group fully supports this. I think that everything must be done now to ensure that security, but of course, defence is made up of more than just material. As the Minister himself said, finance is not the only thing. We've also been dealing with staff shortages in the Defense Department for a long time. What can she do about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u335	That is a very valid point. I just mentioned it myself. I think we can do two things about that. Sometimes the bottleneck in the readiness is that there are very specific functions that we cannot fill in. So I think we need to be more creative to fill it out, if necessary with people other than our own soldiers or people who still need military training. That's the one. The second is this. That's very important. The Secretary of State for Defence has, of course, already begun to do so. That is to make the terms of employment more attractive, so that people are interested in joining the armed forces, and that you keep your people for the future. It's a big organization. It is still a labour-intensive organisation at the moment. We're gonna have to do smarter, too. Because we all know that the healthcare sector wants the same people, who we very much want to have in the armed forces, too. It is also very important that people work in education. So we actually have a deficit across the board. Work will also need to be smarter and more labour-intensive. Nevertheless, we are left with this issue. We just need to make sure we're an attractive employer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u336	I'm glad to hear this from the Minister. Perhaps I could give you a more concrete suggestion about that attractive employership? For a long time, the military have been waiting for that new payroll building, something they deserve. Many of them are really at a minimum wage for the hard work they do. So a suggestion from my group would be: make sure that the wage building is put in place as soon as possible. These people are doing essential work. That's what we're supposed to reward.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u337	Calling heard right. Like I said, it's also marked in the coalition agreement. Funds have been made available for this. Secretary of State Van der Maat is working on that. That's part of the pay structure. Mr. Chairman. A question has just been asked in the interrupting debate. I can understand that, because I saw that coming up too. That was about people who would like to join the Ukrainian armed forces or people who say they would like to fight in Ukraine. To put it more generally: the fact that people in the Netherlands are so involved in what is happening in Ukraine and take all kinds of initiatives, for example to take people here or to make things go that way, are all beautiful and heart-warming initiatives. We must, of course, give them our wholehearted support. Because that actually shows that we sympathize and that the Netherlands is involved. I would also point out that Mr Hoekstra's portfolio is actually that the travel advice for Ukraine is red. This means that it is urgent advice not to travel to Ukraine. There are also a few rules. Humanitarian law of war says that only soldiers of the armed forces can participate directly in the fight. It is therefore not allowed for citizens to do so. In itself, employing a foreign military force is not, in principle, prohibited. That is only if you enlist in a war in which the Netherlands is also a party. Those are the actual circumstances. But I think it is important to emphasise this. We have laws and regulations for this. And again, it's just extremely dangerous. Mr. Chairman. I think I have answered the questions I have been asking. I would also like to say that we can, of course, always give technical briefings to the Chamber, including the Defence Committee, if there is a need. I'd have offered that before. I'd like to repeat that here. I can very well imagine that it is important for you to be well informed. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u338	Then I'd like to thank the Secretary of Defense for her answer. I propose to the Chamber to start immediately with the second term. The Minister for Foreign Affairs has indicated that he may need to leave for an important telephone call. I think we can only understand that. I shall give the floor first to Mr Sjoerdmans... Sjoerdmans?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u339	We're growing apart, as you can see. Mr Sjoerdsma of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u340	We will soon have Mr Brekelsma! Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We have seen today a largely united Chamber and a united cabinet. There must be a firm response to Russia's aggression, not only in condemning words but also in actions. Putin's strategy to break up the European Union has failed. Europe is more united than ever. We deliver weapons together. We'll stop Nord Stream 2. We'll bet SWIFT. Things that were considered impossible until a few days ago are happening now. This Chamber also says: 'go ahead, get rid of the gas, away with the veto in foreign policy and towards a genuine European asylum policy'. Let us end this debate with a broad shared signal from this Chamber, not on behalf of D66 or on behalf of the coalition, in order to bring forward investments in Defence and to explore how we can make structural additional investments. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas Putin's aggression underlines the importance of a military force which, together with allies, can carry out the three constitutional tasks;]] [[Whereas, within NATO, it has been agreed to devote at least 2% of GDP to Defence and close military cooperation partner Germany will comply;]] [[Calls on the Cabinet to consider what is needed and possible in the short term to bring forward the planned increase in the Defence budget and to examine whether more investment can be made in defence cooperation with NATO and European partners;]] [[calls on the cabinet to look for ways to make structural additional investments in the defence sector during this cabinet period, without compromising other investments,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Sjoerdsma, Mr Brekelmans, Mr Agnes Mulder, Mr Ceder, Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Piri, Mr Klaver, Mr Koekkoek, Mr Eppink and Mr Omtzigt.]] [[She's getting No. kst-36045-4]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u341	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u342	Then I give the floor to Mr Van Haga of the Van Haga Group. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u343	Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the war Russia-Ukraine can harm our country;]] [[calls on the Government to map the expected collateral damage to the Dutch economy and the Dutch households,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Netherlands has a long tradition of neutrality policy;]] [[states that the Netherlands is neutral in the war Russia-Ukraine,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to spare the Russian people in the execution of sanctions,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas Poland and other neighbouring countries are committed to the reception of Ukrainian war refugees;]] [[calls on the Government to give generous support to Poland and other neighbouring countries in the provision of emergency humanitarian aid,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to initiate peace negotiations between Russia and Ukraine,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga.]] [[She's getting No. kst-36045-5]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga.]] [[She's getting No. kst-36045-6]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga.]] [[She's getting No. kst-36045-7]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga.]] [[She's getting No. kst-36045-8]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga.]] [[She's getting No. kst-36045-9]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u344	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u345	Thank you, Mr. Van Haga. Then I give the floor to Mr Brekelmans of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u346	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I think we have had a historic debate with each other at a time when we are in Europe in a new period. The most important thing in this debate today is that we have radiated unity, something we have seen in the European Union over the past period, and that the Chamber has sent a strong signal to the cabinet. We have done this, among other things, with the motion that Mr Sjoerdsma has just read out, in which we announce that there will be more investment in defence and that we will focus on what NATO is asking us to do, in the coming period, in the short term, but also in structural terms, in order to contribute to our collective security. Many thanks to the Minister for Foreign Affairs for his commitments in the area of sanctions. He will continue to see how we can hit Putin, both with regard to the reserves he has, and with additional sanctions. The Secretary of Defense has clearly explained what is happening in the field of cyber. However, I would ask her to look into the period ahead to see whether what we have now is sufficient. Because we may also be in the area of cyber next week, after a major cyber attack, in a different period, just as we had after the last debate on Ukraine: then a week later we were suddenly in a different period. So I would like to hear from the Minister the promise that she will inform us in the short term and let us know whether this will be sufficient in a crisis situation. Finally, I would like to thank the Minister for his commitment to go through all the legal channels and to see whether we can hold the military summit accountable through the International Criminal Court.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u347	Thank you, Mr. Brekelmans. Then I give the floor to Mr Jasper van Dijk, SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u348	Mr. Chairman. Thanks to the government for the answer. As far as the SP is concerned, the stakes must be to end this terrible war as soon as possible and get parties to the table. I would remind the government once again of the special role that the Netherlands, as far as I am concerned, should play in this, the special role that we have to play because of our emphasis on international law. Mr. Chairman. On four points, I welcome commitments. The Zuidas. The Minister is going to keep us closely informed of the state of play in dealing with letterbox companies, Russian letterbox companies. The Labour Party is still coming up with a motion that I am co-signing. The Council of Europe. I also welcome the commitment to look at compensating for the lack of financial contributions from Russia. Very good. Then the reception of refugees. I had a motion for that, but I do not submit it, because I assume that the government, like me, is going to do its best to seek a fair distribution of refugees across Europe, but also within the Netherlands. Finally, the compensation. That too is well arranged. So I thank the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u349	Thank you, Mr. Van Dijk. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Piri of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u350	Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank the Prime Minister, the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Defence for having this debate. It is also a difficult debate when we all see what is going on in Ukraine. But it is important to have this debate in the Chamber with each other. What I have felt is a great consensus in the House of Representatives when it comes to solidarity with Ukraine and broad consensus for a firm reaction to the Russians. In fact, there is only one party in this Chamber that does not condemn the Russian invasion. We can also do something as the Netherlands, something extra. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Netherlands continues to launder corrupt money from Russian oligarchs and to evade tax by means of letterbox companies;]] [[Considers that providing a safe (transit) port for Russian (state) companies and the possessions of oligarchs seriously undermines the objective of hitting Putin's clique hard with sanctions;]] [[calls on the government to take appropriate measures to identify mostly anonymous e.g. and holding companies and to counter the structures that allow money laundering, screening and evasion;]] [[calls on the Government to step up its approach to money laundering together with European allies with the aim of stopping corrupt money from Putin's pillars of support,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Piri, Mr Klaver, Mr Jasper van Dijk, Mr Ceder and Mr Sjoerdsma.]] [[She's getting No. kst-36045-10]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u351	Mr President, thank you. I would like to thank the directors for answering the questions put. I've got two motions. I am pleased to conclude at the end of the debate that there is broad support for the approach of the cabinet and the approach in Europe. We're going to talk more about how we got here, but this is the most important thing for now. We must defend ourselves against attacks from outside, but I am also pleased that there is broad support for defending our democracy against attacks from within. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the Russian Federation has an interest in financing political parties (indirectly) in the European Union so that it can use its influence in the EU;]] [[Whereas Russian disinformation is widely disseminated worldwide;]] [[having noted that several populist politicians in other European countries have financial links with Russia;]] [[believes that it is very undesirable for Dutch political parties and politicians to be supported financially and/or in kind with Russian money;]] [[calls on the Bureau to ask the General Court, in the short term, to examine whether and, if so, how political parties, politicians and interest groups in the Netherlands have been financed from 2014 onwards (financial or in kind) with money from the Russian Federation or with money from Russian (legal) persons, and to inform the Chamber thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Klaver, Mr Sjoerdsma, Mr Koekkoek, Mr Teunissen, Mr Kuzu, Mr Piri, Mr Simons, Mr Ceder, Mr Agnes Mulder, Mr Omtzigt, Mr Van der Staaij and Mr Brekelmans.]] [[She's getting No. kst-36045-11]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u352	Finally, the last motion, which I shall read out immediately. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas an increasing number of Ukrainians are fleeing Putin's violence;]] [[Whereas Ukrainians can stay 90 days free in Europe;]] [[calls on the Government to urgently prepare ample reception capacity in the Netherlands and to inform the Court as soon as possible;]] [[calls on the Government to further ensure that all Ukrainians in the Netherlands have access to facilities entitled to refugees, such as health care and education for children,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Klaver and Mr Piri.]] [[She's getting No. kst-36045-12]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u353	Thank you, Mr President. I thank the directors for the answers they have given. My group is also pleased that there is broad consensus. It is clear to my group that we support the government's line and will give more support to further isolating Putin and his cabal to end this illegal war. Two motions from my side. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that civilians in Kharkiv and other cities were spooked by a Smerch MLRS missile;]] [[noting that the Smerch system may be used by Russia to fire off banned cluster munitions;]] [[Considering that all parties to the conflict are obliged to respect humanitarian law of war, all the more so in inhabited areas;]] [[Whereas possible violations of humanitarian war law should be thoroughly and independently investigated and possibly prosecuted thereafter;]] [[calls on the Government to direct similar-minded countries on mechanisms such as independent investigation for evidence collection of international crimes, such as illegal use of cluster munitions in Ukraine,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kuzu and Mr Sjoerdsma.]] [[She's getting No. kst-36045-13]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u354	Then there's the second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that, according to the United Nations, hundreds of thousands of people have already fled the violence in Ukraine;]] [[noting that residents of Ukraine with biometric passports may stay in the Netherlands for up to 90 days up to a total of 180 days;]] [[Whereas the situation in Ukraine ensures that citizens do not know when it is safe to return;]] [[calls on the Government to continue its coulance as long as the Russian invasion of Ukraine continues with respect to the maximum period of residence for Ukrainian citizens,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kuzu and Mr Klaver.]] [[She's getting No. kst-36045-14]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u355	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u356	Then I give the floor to Mrs Agnes Mulder of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u357	Mr President, thank you. Then I'll start with the motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Russian invasion of Ukraine is a flagrant violation of international law;]] [[Considering that, following the illegal Russian invasion of Ukraine, the European Union adopted a package of sanctions aimed at Russian persons and businesses;]] [[Whereas sanctions are an excellent tool for the European Union to maximise the financial and economic isolation of Russia;]] [[calls on the government within the EU to extend the scope of the sanction package and to impose secondary sanctions on companies and persons doing business with sanctioned Russian companies and persons who are also subject to the sanction regime,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Agnes Mulder, Mr Brekelmans, Mr Ceder, Mr Sjoerdsma, Mr Omtzigt, Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Piri, Mr Kuzu, Mr Klaver, Mr Koekkoek, Mr Simons and Mr Eppink.]] [[She's getting No. kst-36045-15]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u358	I would like to thank the members of the cabinet for their involvement with the inhabitants of Ukraine and their concern for them. I also thank them for the speed of acting where it is necessary. I'm a co-author of a lot of motions. Finally, I would like to say that I am proud of the Ukrainians who demonstrated in the Netherlands today outside. I haven't been able to speak to them myself, but I'm proud of how they stand up for the people in their country. While we are standing here, there are civilian casualties in Ukraine. I'm deeply concerned about that. Mr President, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u359	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mr Van der Staaij of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u360	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the rulers for the answer. I thought it was a special debate in the knowledge that the struggle is continuing and we hear during the debate what terrible events are happening again. At the same time, it is good to show this consensus here. I have wholeheartedly supported the Sjoerdsma motion which calls for structural additional investments in defence. I'd like to table the next motion myself. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that Russia is also a threat to the international legal order and to the security of us and our allies in the cyber domain;]] [[Whereas the Dutch intelligence and security services should have sufficient opportunities and legal space to identify and resist threats in the cyber domain in a timely manner;]] [[calls on the Government to come forward with a proposal as soon as possible to amend the Intelligence and Security Services Act 2017 with a view to removing bottlenecks that prevent services from effectively protecting the Netherlands against countries with an offensive cyber program,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Ceder, Mr Agnes Mulder, Mr Eppink and Mr Brekelmans.]] [[She's getting No. kst-36045-16]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u361	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u362	Then I give my word to Mrs Teunissen, Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u363	Mr. Chairman. I thank the rulers for the answer. I liked to see that there was so much consensus in the debate today. I would like to make one more point. I have put forward many motions from colleagues. The boycott of oil and gas is one of the most effective sanctions. We have seen since 2014, since the annexation of Crimea, that the gas supply is a major obstacle to imposing firm sanctions. The fundamental question I would like to have clarified is: is the Netherlands ready for a boycott of oil and gas from Russia? In the debate I heard that preparations are being made, but that remains very vague. I would therefore very much like to look forward to a cabinet plan within a few days to reflect the impact on households and the potential for energy savings, including fertilizer and ornamental farming. A boycott on oil and gas is really showing solidarity with Ukraine. Let's not bacon Putin's warhouse in any way we can. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u364	Thank you, Mrs Teunissen. I shall now give the floor to Mr Baudet, Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u365	Thank you. Has the West set a trap for Russia by which the country had to choose between two evils, isolation and being forced out of Europe by NATO and EU membership of Ukraine on the one hand and being forced out of Europe after an invasion of Ukraine on the other? Was the country, in short, faced with a diabolical dilemma for which it had no other solution than to do so? We don't know. We just don't know. We do know it's an incredibly complex situation. Just because I'm not judging doesn't mean I'm making up for it. I think it is very important to emphasise that. There is such moral thought here: they are "good guys" or they are "bad guys," so if you don't condemn it, then you have to justify it. That's not the issue at all. It is a very complex situation and I think that the Netherlands should stay away from it. We must remain neutral and we must try to push for peace. A number of motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u366	I'd like to interrupt. It has been said before that this issue is not on today's agenda. I, too, do not accept this motion. You will proceed to your second motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u367	Huh? I don't understand this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u368	In the debate it was not about this motion, so I do not accept this motion. You will proceed to your second motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u369	You don't accept this motion?!
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u370	No, no, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u371	This debate has been about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u372	That is not what the debate has been about. You will proceed to your second motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u373	No, I'm not moving on. This debate has been about this. This debate is about the result of ignoring the Dutch no during the 2016 referendum. That's what my speech was about.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u374	The debate is not about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u375	That is what the debate is about. This is a debate on Ukraine.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u376	If you like, I can also ask the Members of Parliament if they agree with me. That's exactly what I'm going to do now. I'll take a look at Mr. Klaver. Mr. Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u377	Full support, President, and it is not even up to the majority of the Chamber. This is up to the chairman. Full support. And I would say: continue with this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u378	Is there anyone who doesn't agree with this? That is not the case. That means we are not voting on this motion. If you still want to proceed with your second motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u379	What kind of madness is this? You can table a motion that can then be put to the vote, can't you? What kind of madness is this?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u380	I'm going to explain it to you, Mr. Baudet. It is a question of tabling motions on the subject of the debate. We have talked about the situation in Ukraine. If you still want to file your second motion, you really should do so now, otherwise your time will be over. Your second motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u381	My motion concerns the situation in Ukraine...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u382	Your second motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u383	... where we voted against the Dutch referendum in 2016. Amazing!
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u384	Your second motion, Mr. Baudet. You're moving on.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u385	Yes. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that during the referendum campaign for the EU Association Treaty with Ukraine, which was rejected by the Dutch people in 2016, the Prime Minister repeatedly stated that Ukraine would never become a member of the EU;]] [[calls on the Government to honour this promise to the Dutch people now, less than six years later, and publicly renounce the recent ruling of EU President Von der Leyen in which it expresses its support for Ukraine's accession to the EU,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Baudet.]] [[She's getting No. kst-36045-17]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u386	I've got more motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u387	Your time is really over now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u388	My time is over because you...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u389	No, we're all gonna rip that off. Your time is really over. That's very unfortunate, but that's the truth. Your time is up. Mr Cedar of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u390	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I thank the cabinet for answering the questions. I signed up with the motion asking for a review of the defence budget. I think that's what times are asking for. I also signed with the motion to examine the letterbox companies and e.g. I look forward to the judgment of the cabinet. In addition, I have a motion on the input we received during the debate on the need for emergency aid. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas several acute aid questions have arisen in Ukraine since the invasion;]] [[whereas a large number of initiatives are already being undertaken in the Netherlands, but they run into practical issues such as coordination and logistics and can therefore make good use of public support;]] [[calls on the Government to identify with emergency aid organisations and other initiatives (including the DRA, the Dutch Relief Alliance, and civil society) the need for emergency aid in the fields of logistics, education, care and other sectors in Ukraine, and to rapidly develop a plan of action,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ceder and Mr Agnes Mulder.]] [[She's getting No. kst-36045-18]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u391	Mr. Chairman. We've signed several motions. I wanted to raise another question that has not been answered. This is about the impact of sanctions on the Dutch economy. Now I understand that's what's hard to do, because you have inflation, purchasing power and so on. The specific question I had was: when will there be a new financial framework for the coalition agreement? Is that gonna happen, or isn't it? Or is that included in the Spring Note? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u392	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Koekkoek van Volt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u393	Mr. Chairman. Europe is a community of values, built on the idea that we no longer want war, where humanity and solidarity are central and where no one is left behind. I have heard this noise mostly in the Chamber today, and I welcome that. I'm not filing any motions, but I do have three questions. We need to focus on renewable energy as soon as possible and become independent of Russian gas. This may take a while and will also touch the wallet of many Dutch and Europeans. There is a proposal for a social climate fund that can be used to deal with the blows of sanctions. The question is whether the Netherlands will do so. Can this be promised by the Minister? My question about the relocation of refugees and the obligation that Sweden has called for was rightly referred to as a return to this. However, once again the question of whether this particular point can be included in the feedback. Finally, on accession. The Ukrainian people show that they are willing to fight and die for European values. I understand that it is difficult to regulate accession directly. That's not what I'm asking. However, I would ask the Netherlands to join Poland, Greece, Slovenia, the Czech Republic and Romania to respond to President Zelensky's request and to join Mrs von der Leyen's words: they are one of us and we want them in. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u394	Thank you, Mrs Koekkoek. I shall now give the floor to Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u395	Mr. Chairman. They remain very dangerous and turbulent times. I wish the cabinet strength to make the right choices. If oil and gas continue to flow, at least make sure that the proceeds go temporarily to a trust fund and are not used to finance Putin's war. Make sure that refugees can be well received and, if necessary, remain calm for a while. One motion, on reconstruction. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considers that the reconstruction of Ukraine should primarily be paid for by Russia and Russian oligarchs and not by the European or Russian population;]] [[calls on the Government to take the initiative to set up a trust fund to place the frozen assets of Russia, Belarus and oligarchs from those countries, with a view to providing funds for the reconstruction of Ukraine;]] [[invites the Government to inform the Chamber of the progress of this initiative within two weeks,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Omtzigt, Mr Van der Plas, Mr Jasper van Dijk, Mr Kuzu, Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Eppink, Mr Teunissen and Mr Simons.]] [[She's getting No. kst-36045-19]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u396	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is in solidarity with the Ukrainian people and all those within Ukrainian borders. However, we believe that we can make better use of our resources for peace, monitoring of humanitarian law, reception of refugees and humanitarian aid instead of escalation, further escalation, of the war. To this end, we have co-signed a number of motions tabled. Today's vote will be taken, at least, on a number of motions aimed at extending our defence budget and sending military support to Ukraine. BEYOND 1 will vote mostly against these motions. I would like to stress once again that this is not because we do not feel connected with the people of Ukraine, but because it is a principle for BET1. We're antimilitaristic. We always will be and always will be. Mr. Chairman. I don't have any motions. My signature is under a number of motions. So for now, I'm gonna leave it at that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u397	Thank you, Mrs Simons. The directors have indicated that they need about ten minutes to prepare themselves. I shall suspend the sitting until about 5.30 p.m. Please bear in mind that we are going to vote today as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u398	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the situation in Ukraine. First, I give the floor to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u399	Mr. Chairman. The motion in part No. 11 is a motion addressed to the Presidium. So I am not going to give any further advice on this. But since my fine political feeling makes the assessment that that motion can be adopted, I would like to say something about that motion. The Home Secretary has informed me of the following. That was through officials, I must say, because we have not spoken. On the basis of the information provided to it by political parties, an overview of donations above €4,500 per donor per year received by political parties and the secondary institutions of the Russian Federation and or of Russian legal entities between 2014 and 2020. Additional transparency rules apply to the Lower House elections, which also apply to the candidates. Therefore, the overview that it will send will include any donations received by candidates in the 2017 and 2021 Lower Parliament elections from Russia and from Russian legal entities. For the rest, politicians are not covered by the transparency rules of the Wfpp. This also applies to interest groups. The cabinet therefore does not have this information of politicians other than the candidates in the Lower House elections or of interest organisations. Therefore, these data cannot form part of the same letter. I say this on the occasion of that motion, for information, and I also hope to provide services from the Minister of the Interior. But again, I'm not giving a formal judgment because it's a motion to the Presidium. Then there's one other motion that I'd like to comment on. That's the motion in part No. 17 by Mr Baudet. I'd like to discourage that motion. I do so with reference to the debate. At the moment it is not on the agenda either. Nor do I think it is wise to have that discussion now. In my opinion, we really need to talk about how we can connect with Ukraine, as a member of the European family, they are, they are in Europe and we feel closely connected with them on the basis of the existing instruments, such as the Eastern Partnership and all other instruments. But I wouldn't make this statement. Moreover, Mrs Von der Leyen's quote is not correct either, because she is also talking about the longer term. So I don't think that motion would be wise. I would like to see Mr Baudet's motion on item No. 17 So advise against it. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u400	I thank the Prime Minister. We'll clean up briefly and then I'll give the floor to the Minister of Foreign Affairs. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u401	Thank you, Mr President. I had a few things from the first term. A few additional questions had been asked by the members of the Chamber. Then I'll get to the motions. Mr Eppink once again asked about the financial and economic context. He asked: when can we expect this new framework? I would nevertheless like to refer to what I think I indicated in the third or fourth block. If you add up what's going on right now, we already had inflation, we already had everything that's going on in the macro-economic field, and you add up the energy in the new context, as well as what's about to happen now, then the cabinet should head back to the drawing table. I believe that the cabinet, first and foremost the most appropriate members of the government, should do so. Then the cabinet will inform the Chamber of that too. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Koekkoek asked me to confirm once again what I had already confirmed to her, namely whether we would like to include the compulsory relocation of refugees in the report. I'm gonna say that again to her aboundingly. Mr Ceder asked about Interpol. I'd like to report to him that there's been any contact with JenV. The suggestion he has made will be further examined in consultation with other Member States. Then the Minister of JenV will inform the Chamber about that too. So that goes half a step further than I had already done in the first term. Mrs Teunissen asked: when will the exit plan come? Then I'll have to sit on the other side. That might disappoint her. After official consultation, I understand that Mr Jetten is coming in mid-April with this broader letter. That means that we can give more insight into that. But that is the deadline that Mr Jetten is proposing.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u402	I would like to ask why Mr Jetten is not part of the crisis team. It's about a very strategic decision. The shutdown plan has been promised a long time ago. So could Mr Jetten be more closely involved? I really want to call on the cabinet to come forward with a strategic consideration of whether or not to set the exit plan, but also more in detail. What's there is far too common. We are simply not ready for Russia to shut down the gas tap as a result of the sanctions. I think that would also be a very good idea to come up with that exit plan very quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u403	That's it. That's it. That's it. At the same time, Mr Jetten is, of course, a member of all the relevant bodies. In any case, you can honestly consider the whole cabinet as a crisis team on these matters, but there is, of course, another specific gremium within which the three of us, but also a number of others who are involved in this. Mr Jetten is also explicitly associated with this. This is also true of the procedural procedure. But I will also personally state tomorrow morning in that gremium that the Chamber is also insisting on urgency. I shall leave it to Mr Jetten to decide whether he can start earlier in mid-April. Mr. Chairman. Then there were two things to Mr Sjoerdsma. He asked for a report on matters that have been seized, as well as for broader information on property. That's gonna take a little extra digging. I had already indicated that finance will come back to many of the issues that touch on what I domestically call "the Zuidas." I'll ask them to take this with me. Moreover, I have to say that, in my view, Mr Sjoerdsma's thoughts have gone all the way that, if there is anything to report on, this will probably have to be done on an anonymous basis. But I'll ask the Treasury to take this with me in the letter. Mr. Chairman. Which brings me to the motions. I'll start with the motion in part No. 5 by Mr Van Haga on the collateral damage. I can leave them in judgment room. I consider them to be policy support, and several colleagues in the cabinet will come back to that. The motion in part No. 6 is a speech-exmotion, but one can guess, I think, how the cabinet is in there. We really want to support Ukraine, but we also want to continue to support it wholeheartedly. The motion in part No. 7 calls for the Russian people to be spared from the use of sanctions. Yes, we cannot rule out the possibility that some of the sanctions, certainly those far-reaching sanctions, will also affect the population, but our great discontent focuses primarily on Putin and the people around it and not on the Russian people. With that remark, I can also refer to the motion for a resolution on item No. 7 Judgement room. The motion in part No. I can also leave judgment room. It's about generous support. The motion in part No. Nine I must advise against. I have just indicated that we would be happy to play a role in any peace negotiations where appropriate and requested. But taking the initiative now to start peace negotiations is not going to help. So in this form, I have to discourage that motion. Mrs Piri's motion for a resolution 10 on the mailbox companies and money laundering, I'll leave judgment room. For motivation, I refer to the debate. The motion in part No. 12 by Mr Klaver and Mrs Piri on refugee reception in the Netherlands, I also leave Chamber to judge, referring to the debate. The motion in part No. 13 by Mr Kuzu and Mr Sjoerdsma on independent research and cluster munitions idem. Judgment of the Chamber and reference to the debate. In my view, Mr President, you do not want me to be even more motivating where we judge Chamber as judgment. The motion in part No. 14 by Mr Kuzu and Mr Klaver on the period of stay: also Chamber judgment. It is important to say that this is the premises of the Secretary of State for JenV and I can confirm once again that the maximum duration of stay will be handled generously, but he will therefore come up with an overview of all the questions raised in this area by Mr Klaver, as well as others in this debate. The motion in part No. 15 by Mrs Mulder on secondary sanctions. About the whole family agrees, but also very much with the content, so judge Chamber. The motion in part No. 18 by Mr Ceder and also by Mrs Mulder, I also give Chamber judgment. I consider them to be policy support. With regard to the motion in part No. 19 by Mr Omtzigt I really must make a pass on the spot. I have just promised that finance may be able to investigate whether such a thing is possible. But now it says that the government must not only take the initiative, but also inform it within two weeks. That really goes a few steps further. If I may understand Mr Omtzigt in this way, as I understood him in the first term, that finance must examine how to start this, then I would like to give him that undertaking orally, but in this form I must discourage the motion. Mr. Chairman. That brings me...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u404	Before you proceed, Mr Omtzig has something to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u405	Then I adjust the operative part exactly to what the Minister has just said: asks the government to examine whether and how, and to inform the Chamber within two weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u406	This is really complicated, I understand. Then my request to Mr Omtzigt would be to do so as follows: calls on the government to take the initiative to investigate and so on. Then we make "examinations" of the first part of the operative part. Then the second part of the operative part. Let us give the officials two weeks extra time, so: to inform within a month. That's, I think, to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u407	I am about to send out a slightly modified text which I take into account. But there's a really good rush. I am very impressed that freezing took place within a few days. These matters, too, now that there is a war, should take place as soon as possible. So I'm just gonna see how we're gonna work that out.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u408	I agree, it could be faster. There is, of course, no one, certainly not one of the excellent officials who supports us in the various departments, who would not rather have done so today than tomorrow. Only, I also want to be careful in what I promise, especially if I promise something outside my own wallet.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u409	I follow Mr Omtzigt's line of reasoning in itself, but I would like to give one more thing to this Minister. Mr Omtzigt said that this money should benefit the reconstruction of Ukraine. I think that is a noble goal; let me put it first. But I would also like to point out that much of the money seized actually belongs in law to the Russian people, which it has often been reduced from through corruption. I would ask the Minister to look at this carefully. It should not be the case that we take money from one people to give it to the other people. We must ensure that we do justice to where that money comes from.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u410	Very much so. In any case, that is why I have said that we will examine this fully. I made a pass on the operative part. I have already argued in the first instance that I have repeatedly argued in the Chamber that one of the things we need to realize in such a situation is that this is a rule of law. We may not regard ownership as the highest good, but as one of the essentials of that rule of law. Mr. Chairman. That brings me to the end of the motions. If I may, I would like to say two more things to your Members. The first is this. Of course, we all have our part to play. I understand very well that everyone here is doing so from their own political point of view. However, I would like to say that I personally am sure that I am speaking for the whole cabinet, and I very much appreciate that we can work together on such a subject, because this is really about something. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I would like to say briefly what I said at the beginning. We are half a day away, and we are therefore Mrs Piri and others said that there are a lot more bombings, dead adults and dead children. I notice that's what it does to the members. I also notice this with the members of the cabinet. I can only repeat what I started with, namely that I have great respect for everyone in Ukraine who fully opposes what is happening with determination, courage and unity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u411	I would like to thank the Foreign Minister. We'll clean up for a while and then I'll give the floor to the Secretary of Defense. In the meantime, I would like to ask Mr Omtzigt to table the amended motion rather quickly, because we are also going to vote quite quickly this evening. I call the Minister of Defence.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u412	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. There was one more question I was asked about cyber. Mr Brekelmans continued to do so. The question is actually about two things. The first is whether we are prepared for it to happen; this was also discussed in the debate on the interruption with Mr Omtzigt. It could happen today. We have every reason to believe that it can happen today, tomorrow, at any time. That's what interdepartmental cooperation is for between JenV, BZK, BZK and Defense. This cooperation has been intensified some time ago in view of what is going on. This is not only the case, but also international information is exchanged and experiences are shared. This is mainly intended to identify and prevent cyber attacks in time, and if they occur, to mitigate them. In other words, we are indeed on fire. I think that's very important. The second part is more about services, which, of course, also play a role in this. That's another part. After all, they also have other powers and other possibilities to use those powers. Think of hacks and interceptions that are really totally related to threat. I shall come back to that second part in a moment, because there is a motion for a resolution on this. Mr. Chairman. The other question from Mr Brekelmans was about finance, but I actually want to answer it in my response to the motion for a resolution on item No. 4 which has been submitted on this issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u413	One more question about that cyber issue. The things the minister says are of course good, but when there is a cyber attack, the risk is that not only the government is affected, but also the private infrastructure. A lot of companies are worried about this right now. They wonder: what comes to us and who can we contact? Today's structures are being improved and intensified, says the Minister, but is that enough if there is a large-scale cyber attack and our business is also affected? It is better to keep that under review now and see if we should set it up differently than in one, two or three weeks, where something big may have happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u414	I agree with Mr Brekelmans. That is also one of the aspects that has been taken into account in the preparation for this. Mr Brekelmans knows the NCSC. That's before that. This is a very strong partnership. I am talking about departments, but it is a partnership, especially with other sectors, such as industry. We are very well aware that this can affect different sectors at different times. So the answer to that is: we are prepared for that. Mr. Chairman. Then there are the two motions that I can still give a ruling on. The motion in part No. 4 by Mr Sjoerdsma c.s. calls on the cabinet to look for ways to make structural additional investments in Defense during this cabinet period, without compromising other investments. I think it has become clear today and yesterday that we are dealing with a very exceptional situation, with a game changer, perhaps historically. So we have to bear in mind that this threat is not just gone; I said that in response. We also need to be prepared for future threats. We saw what Germany announced yesterday. We already have plans as a cabinet anyway, at least, we're making them for extra investments in Defense. I think it would be wise, in the light of everything that is happening now, to get that straight. In my view, this is what Mr Brekelmans asked for. In spite of the request contained in this motion and the urgency of the motion, the cabinet is happy to give this motion a ruling Chamber. Then the motion to part No. 16 by Mr Van der Staaij. It calls for a proposal to amend the Wiv as soon as possible. That looks at protecting against countries with an offensive cyber program. I think it is very important that the services should be able to carry out their legal tasks and that the tasks they carry out correspond in a good way to our supervisory system. I'm happy to give this motion judgment Chamber. Mr. Chairman. That brings me to the end of the answer. I think today we are all wondering, as in the last few days, where all this is going to end, the war in Europe. The consequences are not really clear, but I am very pleased with the support of the Chamber to do whatever is necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u415	I thank the Secretary of Defense. That concludes the debate on the situation in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-28-tweedekamer-3.u416	I think I represent the opinion of the House of Representatives if I wish the directors very much success in this difficult mission. It is nice that the debate today, despite all the urgency that has taken place in the meantime, could still take place. I suggest we suspend for 15 minutes. Then we're gonna vote right away.
