ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-11.u1	I would now like to move on to the debate on the legislative proposal for amending the Education and Vocational Training Act BES, on MBO training on Bonaire. I inform the Chamber that the Minister must leave the Chamber at 3 p.m. He will be awarding a state award this afternoon, the Joke Smit Prize. We're trying to get as far as we can. Perhaps it will be possible to complete the first term on the part of the government. If this is not possible and if it is not possible to complete the whole debate, a follow-up will be scheduled soon after the recess. Then you know the Minister has until 3:00. You may be able to take your interruptions a little into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-11.u2	I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-11.u3	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you also for making it possible for me to do two important things today, including having a debate with your Chamber on this particular subject: MBO education on Bonaire. I must say that a number of good questions have been asked. I begin by saying that I think we all share a great deal of attention, concern and passion for education here. That is why we have this debate. One of the main tasks of vocational education is, of course, to ensure that education is properly integrated into the labour market. It is not for nothing that this government is committed to promoting the provision of labour-market-relevant vocational training, to maintaining the widest possible supply close to home and in the region, to strengthening opportunities by removing thresholds and to promoting adult vocational education in the context of lifelong learning. That is no different for Bonaire than for the rest of the Netherlands. But there are contextual differences between Bonaire and the European Netherlands. This adds to the challenges facing vocational education and training in Bonaire. Think of the small scale of the island, the relatively low level of education, the problem of poverty and, of course, the subject we are debating today: the language. Despite the fact that the Dutch language is a foreign language for almost all students and students on Bonaire, there are very good reasons to stick to Dutch as an instructional language in education. The training opportunities at Bonaire are limited. For training in higher education, the European Netherlands is soon to be the focus of attention. The Dutch language skills are important for the flow to successful further education in the European Netherlands. For this reason, at Bonaire, primary education is partly provided and continued and vocational education is mainly provided in Dutch. In the perhaps somewhat canonical way in which students pass from vmbo to mbo, it might be good to stress that this initial flow is also happening in Dutch. Eventually, MBO will show a number of students in the European Netherlands taking an HBO course. Just one order of magnitude: it's about ten students a year. That is the current regular electricity from the MBO to the Netherlands. Unlike in the European Netherlands, Dutch on Bonaire is not the dominant language. In the living environment, in the workplace: most residents do not speak Dutch at all. This makes it particularly difficult for people who have not gone to school, who have not gone to a school where Dutch was taught or who have fallen out of education, to learn the Dutch language. It's a bit like we'd suddenly get into Spanish or Portuguese class. This bill aims to remove a threshold for that group of people for whom learning a profession or further improving professional skills on Bonaire is currently not an option. Again, we're not talking about the initial students here. On the contrary, it is often adults who, for whatever reason, come to the island and then want to be encouraged to continue vocational training. It is good to realize that one in ten workers on Bonaire is a stranger, mostly from Latin America or China. Those foreigners are given a work permit because there are no locally qualified people available for the vacancies. They do not speak Dutch and this is often not required for the relevant vacancies. For a local employee or job seeker who would like to fill that job vacancy but cannot do so because he does not speak Dutch, it is hard that the flow to levels 3 or 4 is impossible. We're talking about a rather small group. Apart from the great principles, this is also about customization. Mr El Yassini spoke very passionately about the threefold qualification in vocational education: vocational training, further training and good citizenship. I also understand the concern about the possibilities for further training in MBO in the European Netherlands. I would also like to point out that this proposal offers an important opportunity for the target group of Papiamentian vocational training. For them, the possibilities now stop after mbo 2, because there are no follow-up options in their own region and in their own language. Several speakers have pointed out that we do have this on MBO 1 and 2, but not on those next steps. They are not people who are going to travel the world for further education. They live and work on Bonaire and they are needed for the local labour market. That's the target group we're talking about. I would like to stress once again that the vocational training courses at Bonaire will always be offered in Dutch. This is always about an en-enconstruction. In the case of the small number of courses where there is now possibly a Papiament language version, the Dutch language line will always be sidelined. Students who enter vocational education from secondary education automatically do so in the Dutch language training, so that they still have the possibility of a further education in the Netherlands. I have already mentioned the ten students who choose to do so. So those are small numbers. Most MBO students on Bonaire choose to live and work in the region. As I said, the Papiament language courses are offered alongside the Dutch language courses, and only to the specific target groups for whom this is appropriate. It is therefore not the case that every student can choose the language in which he or she takes the course. The school has a very specific policy in place here. It has been asked whether an MBO diploma obtained in another language is worth nothing less than a diploma obtained in Dutch. The professional qualification remains exactly the same. It is perhaps interesting to know that even in the European Netherlands MBO schools can choose to offer courses in a language other than Dutch if this is in the interest of the students. That's what the law allows, and that's what happens. For example, they offer training in English or German. Then we don't say those diplomas are worth less. It is an opportunity offered in the European Netherlands, which is also being used, but which is not currently being offered at these levels in Bonaire. But it is true that I agree that the flow to Dutch HBO is not obvious in this case. But that is not at all the issue for the target group we are talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-11.u4	A very brief comment, Mr President. I do not think that the comparison with MBO courses offered in English or in German, which focus on a global market - both German and English - offer a fair comparison with vocational training in Papiaments, where you talk about a language area of less than 100,000 people, I think, is not recognized in the rest of the world. So I wouldn't do that; I just wanted to give you that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-11.u5	I agree with Mr Beertema that it is not a good comparison. I wasn't gonna do that either. I just wanted to mention that in the European Netherlands schools have this option, to offer training in another language. Well, it's very soon in the Netherlands that if you offer another language, it's about a larger language area. But it could also be a smaller language area. So there is some kind of equivalence that this is an option that applies in the European Netherlands but not in the Caribbean part of the Netherlands. However, it is important to talk about the conditions for offering these Papiaments language courses. In my view, there are the necessary checks-and-balances that were also asked to prevent schools from deciding too easily to offer these courses in the Papiaments and, as a result, could indeed hinder the possible transfer to higher education in the European Netherlands. I think it is a good thing to realize that the law requires that the school should make proper consideration. They must be checked and assessed by the Education Inspectorate. Secondly, in Bonaire, a study is being carried out on the labour market relevance of training and the availability of relevant placements for each training. On a small island like Bonaire, with very limited training opportunities and a limited labour market, I think that is even more important than in the European Netherlands. This study also looks explicitly at language requirements in the workplace. As I said, MBO institutions in the European Netherlands also have the possibility to deviate from Dutch as an instructional language, and there too, a school must be able to justify it. It's also being watched strictly. In a way, you could say that the conditions we impose on Bonaire are strict, but not more stringent than the conditions we would like to impose in the European Netherlands. I'll come to the other questions. Let me start with Mr El Yassini's questions on the review framework: what is the review framework for whether or not Dutch is required? The Education Labour Market Council advises the Caribbean Netherlands on the labour market-relevant effectiveness of vocational training. In its opinions, the Board also advises on these language requirements in the Bonairian workplace. That review framework is in the law itself. That law requires that courses are provided in Dutch, unless. I think that "unless" is very important. Both European and BES legislation lays down strict criteria which the school must adhere to. Is there a brake in here? That was a very specific question. It was also suggested that we did that for mbo 1 and 2 and asked if that is a kind of sliding thing, because with mbo 3 and 4 everything goes in Dutch at some point. It is important to realize that no one has any interest in offering all the courses in the Papiaments now, nor does the school. There are all kinds of good arguments for doing a large part of these courses in Dutch. For that they are also in Dutch. It is clearly an exception. Again, the same kind of exception that is also present in the European Netherlands. The school has to base its policy on that and it has to be well founded. We have an Education Inspectorate that oversees that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-11.u6	I thought for a moment about what the Minister said: it is in no one's interest to do so. It is just that we read and know of the situation that there is a zár shortage of some types of employees on Bonaire. We are not only talking about chefs training, which we have already discussed extensively, but also in construction, care and installation technology. So I can also imagine that some employers say out of despair: come, I prefer that they flow through the Papiaments, while they may need a little more Dutch; we will see when that problem arises. Does the Minister see that there is perhaps an interest in getting rid of it at some point?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-11.u7	That is, of course, a good point. Are you sure you're okay? That's actually the point. Especially as the situation is now with MBO 1 and 2, I don't think we can see that. Again, I feel that there is a good evaluation system. The Ministry of Education shall ensure that this is done. Again, it's a small group. It is not the group of students who attend initial education. We offer a solution for people who, for whatever reason, have fallen out of the boat or come into the boat later. I'll be the first to say I know what I don't know; it's very difficult to look into the future. I understand the concerns about that, too. I think there are some concerns in the Chamber that we are taking a small step and that we then slide down through "a slide" I believe Mr El Yassini spoke of that..................................................................................................................................................................................... But honestly, I don't share those concerns right now. I believe that there is a proper evaluation system and that there is a careful procedure. We take a small step for a very small group, listening very strongly to the desire of the island. All options for education in the Netherlands remain. And again, it is almost a matter of principle: it is possible in the European Netherlands. We are allowing this and it is being used, and this is being done carefully. On other occasions, we may be able to talk about what wishes we have, and we will take care of them. I have good faith, at the moment, that we can take this step.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-11.u8	I know time isn't on our side, but I hear two things. The Minister says: we also provide MBO training in other languages in the Netherlands. But we also see, especially in Europe, that these are not the end of the right of admission to go further in higher education. This could be done in Germany or in the United Kingdom. In Bonaire, at some point, you won't have a right of admission. So that is a difference. You can't compare that. Let's talk about the exceptions. I understand the exception in the case of chefs training from the explanatory memorandum. But in the pleading it is then said: we will look further into the construction, care and installation technique. Then the exception becomes the rule. Can't the Minister see that that's the slide we're all slipping off?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-11.u9	I understand the concerns. In my information, the desire to extend this is a very cautious one. There may be talk of care. That's actually all I know right now. Again, there are always the standard Dutch-language paths. They're supposed to be the default. We must also be honest about the fact that it is indeed true that with this MBO degree, although it still has the same qualifications, you do not have an automatic right of transit to Dutch-language HBO courses. That is the point made by Mr El Yassini, and that is a fact. He already indicated that in an English education you have a much larger market at your disposal. So there goes that equation. I get that point. I think it is a point of principle, correct, but in practice it is far less relevant for this target group. It's about small numbers anyway. Ten students per year make the step of an MBO programme on Bonaire to the European Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-11.u10	It is now said a number of times that these are small numbers. Of course, it's also about very small numbers. But why should we call on the Dutch legislator to make exceptions, precisely because they are of those small numbers? Those exceptions are damaging to the civilian impact. My solution is then to offer these people tailor-made work and to do so in cooperation with the MBO institution there and the local business community. If that local business pulls its hands together, indicates what it needs and makes a very good education for it in the Papiaments, then we have tackled the problem and then we are not sitting here in the Lower House as legislators to complain about the civil effect. 'Cause that's what it is in the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-11.u11	Maybe just a correction. You speak of small numbers. Bonaire isn't a very big island either, and every resident counts. The law that we're "scoring" about, which we're improving in my view, is the law for the BES Islands. It is also the law that applies in that region, which may be small from our perspective, but the Netherlands is sometimes also very small from the perspective of much larger countries. We really try to do it with care and attention to the locals on Bonaire. We could talk about the two Windward Islands, where we have a similar discussion about English; a very different connotation. That's one. Point two. Mr Beertema also asked: why don't you solve it with the business community through a local bbl-training course? There's that possibility now. It just doesn't happen, not enough. That option was available. We get a very strong wish from the island. There is also a task for the government. We may differ on whether, in our - I would almost say constitutional - task of ensuring education, we should respond to this. I think so. That is why I have tabled this proposal. There's that option. I would say that in practice it is not working enough or not enough, and that is why here is the proposal to make this publicly funded way possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-11.u12	This option does not work because, of course, local business has long known, via a lobby to the Lower House and to the Ministry, that we are going to solve it in this way. I don't think that's quite right. I think it's okay for business to go in there and make some effort. This can then be done in cooperation with the government. The government can also invest money, energy and expertise. My point is that we are now going to give a handicapped diploma under the auspices of the WEB BES to young people who do not have the opportunity to study further in the European Netherlands. It is only a small exception, but with every small exception, even one, the civil effect of diplomas is undermined. The Minister must agree with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-11.u13	I see this as a comment by Mr Beertema, who is his opinion. Again, we've taken a small step before. I think this is a small step in the right direction. There is, of course, a dilemma between our general principles and the concern and attention for the local population and offering solutions that are really served by them on the island. The practical considerations to offer this group of adults the possibility of further training are more important to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-11.u14	In conclusion, Mr Beertema.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-11.u15	Rounding up. I think it's a little silly for the Minister to say: I don't hear anything else, it's an opinion. I would like to inform the Minister that the civil effect is not an opinion. The civil effect should be at the heart of every legislator. It should be the same for you. It's not just an opinion. This is messing around, moaning about the civilian effect. I can imagine that at a next pandemic, the local economy is going down farther than it went down. Then we're stuck with the kids. I can imagine that they will then emigrate to the Netherlands. Then you stand here again and say: yes, it is only small numbers; let us give them access to the MBO. 'Cause that's all emotion. Emotion does not fit in with monitoring the civilian effect as legislator. You do not have to respond to that, because you are obviously not going to do so, but at least take it with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-11.u16	I will continue with the question, including Mr El Yassini, what it means when you have done the training in Papiaments. Then you actually close off from innovations in the Dutch language area. I think teachers are perfectly capable of translating these innovations, but they are, of course, much broader. They take place in the region, in the Caribbean, mostly in other languages such as English and Spanish. There are several ways in which training can keep in touch with what is happening in the world. You will see me as the number one fan of all the innovations taking place in the Netherlands, but I am also aware that there are other interesting developments worldwide. I do not see at the moment how the fact that the programme is in the Papiaments keeps innovations away from the students. Mr El Yassini asked: why not bet on strengthening Dutch on Bonaire? What is the Minister going to do, together with the Minister for Primary and Advanced Education, to tackle the language deficit? I think it is good to stress once again that in regular education Bonaire is heavily used on Dutch as a language. It is also important to stress that Bonaire Dutch is not the dominant language, unlike in the European Netherlands. By the way, Papiaments is also legally an official language. The government communicates in Papiaments and in Dutch. She communicates in both languages. The role of Dutch has our great attention. Together with Minister Wiersma, I will pay close attention to this in the context of the Caribbean Netherlands education agenda. You don't really have to call us to that. We're gonna do that. I therefore expect to report back to your Chamber in the third quarter of this year.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-11.u17	I hear the Minister talking about strengthening the language, especially among young people who may be from the p.o. and flow through. I believe all of that. Of course, there is also a large group of adults who have to be helped with the Dutch language. The call of the VVD is also to make sure that you strengthen and improve it. Will the programme include a lifelong development and learning of the Dutch language, so that someone who is 35 years old, for example, can also take steps at some point?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-11.u18	Absolutely. So the question is whether developing a lifelong life on Bonaire is part of this reflection. Absolutely, just to help people with language disadvantage and strengthen their position. The education agenda of the Caribbean Netherlands will also address this. I think I will then, also in the light of time, turn to Mrs Hagen's questions. She asked about the problems of Antillean students, also inspired by the column she mentioned. Her question was: what are the steps that are being taken? Last month I had discussions with my colleagues from Aruba, Curaçao and Sint-Maarten, the so-called four-country consultation. We have talked extensively about the problem of Antillean students in the European Netherlands. I have already told your Chamber that they are sometimes in a difficult position, especially those from other countries. They fall a bit between shore and ship sometimes. They're not foreigners and they're not natives. A number of agreements have been reached in the framework of the four-country consultation. There is also a directing group led by Ron Bormans, who really speaks with a lot of care and attention and addresses the concerns. There is also real attention from especially HBO drivers in the Netherlands. They see and are very sensitive to the problems of these students. There's too much failure and there's too many mental problems. In particular, therefore, in the field of better information and guidance, HBO and MBO schools are already working hard. I think that directing group is gonna give us some very good clues. It also looks at what we can do about training opportunities in the Caribbean. It may not be the most obvious step for every student to come here to Europe. In a way, it is good that there are alternatives, that students make the right choice and that they are well informed about what exactly they can and cannot expect when they come to the European Netherlands. So I would like to say that it is very high on our agenda. This problem is not only well known, but is also high... there are also great concerns in the other countries. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Hagen also asked about the state of play of the Wuite motion on the possibility of a so-called kingdom fair for Caribbean students. This was also discussed extensively in the four-country consultations, in particular in the context of the need for training opportunities outside the island expressed by the other countries. No concrete agreements have yet been reached, but we have taken a few important steps. At the MBO school Bonaire, an internship fund has been set up which allows students to receive travel and subsistence allowances if they wish to take an internship in the European Netherlands or one of the other countries of the Kingdom. We are exploring with various parties the possibilities for more cooperation in a number of other training areas, especially in tourism and in healthcare. In fact, this is more about cooperation between the islands and with the European Netherlands. This concerns an exchange of students and teachers. Then, Mr President, I come to Mrs Bouchallichh's questions about the involvement of students in this proposal. First of all, going back to the previous debate we had, I share your view on the importance of student involvement and participation. The MBO school at Bonaire and also the Council Education Labour Market Caribbean Netherlands have discussed this change extensively with students and employers. The result of these talks gives me a reliable picture of the wishes and ambitions of these students. We feel that this bill meets these wishes and ambitions. How's the contact with the students on the islands going? It sounds a little faint, but that is no different than contact with students in the European Netherlands. There's an OCW office there. Work visits are made on a regular basis. During these work visits, students are spoken to. I'm really looking forward to visiting there myself. There is, of course, the Education Inspectorate, which, in the framework of its regular studies, also speaks with the students in addition to the management and teachers of schools. In addition, the participation council and the student council offer students the opportunity to consult with the competent authority of a school. In my opinion, the question was also correct me if that was not so correct as to deal with the flow to HBO in the Netherlands. We're definitely gonna include that in the monitoring. Finally, I come to Mr Beertema's questions. I think you asked for several things. I have answered your question about the option of local bbl-training according to capacity. In my eyes, it's a possibility. It doesn't work well enough, hence the proposal. You also asked some existential questions about the usefulness and necessity of this bill. I must say that the critical sounds here today are also good. After all, we need to think clearly about every step we take. It's not like you're asking and the government's running. We really need to talk about this very carefully. I feel like we're doing this carefully enough here. Are students prevented from going to further education? What about equality of opportunity? I think we're all seeing a dilemma here. In my view, this legislative proposal increases the opportunities in the local labour market for this particular target group who, after entering an MBO 2 training course, cannot pass through that language barrier to MBO 3 and 4. If all this goes on, it's gonna be a possibility. I think this certainly increases the chance of a good job in the region for this particular group. I think it takes away a threshold for their careers. On the other hand, I have heard very well that a further education in the Netherlands is certainly not going to help. But there are still good opportunities. Is there sufficient knowledge and expertise? Are there enough teachers? Again, it's small numbers. According to what we have understood so far, there is enough knowledge and expertise in the house to provide education in the Papiaments for these specific courses. There is also the role of the Education Inspectorate, which will monitor this. Regulatory frameworks apply to the supervision of the examination. There is a statutory role of the Examination Board. All this is completely separate from the language in which the training is given, so in no way does it weaken or alter the quality test on the training courses. It is only the language in which the training is given that is quite different from the extent to which the comparisons are flawed. Again, this is also a possibility in the European Netherlands. We'll take advantage of that. This is also the case where training requirements are uniform, regardless of the language in which the training is given.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-11.u19	I have another question about any practical objections that might arise when it comes to textbooks, manuals, protocols and so on. It's a lot of textbooks and stuff, especially at level 3 and more so at level 4. They're very specialised. At the moment I don't have a good idea of whether all of this is translated into Papiaments, whether there's the expertise for that, or whether there's enough people for that anyway. But also the teachers there will sometimes have to come from the Netherlands. They don't speak the Papiaments. How's that gonna be fixed?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-11.u20	I think these are legitimate concerns. I can promise that if this possibility becomes legally available, which demonstrates the conditions under which a school can do so, the inspection will play an important role in this. At the moment, I have not heard any sounds that there are problems with the availability of both teachers and study material. But these are clear conditions that training must meet if this option is to be used. Again, it's an option that eventually comes into the law. In my view, there are strict requirements that must be met before this option can be implemented. We will in no way weaken the quality of the training. I can promise you that here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-11.u21	Thank you. This brings the Minister to the end of the first-term reply. I'll take a look at the members. We've got seven minutes. Would all members like to have a second term? No? Only Mr El Yassini. I'll give him the floor. Then he can do his second term in advance. Mr El Yassini has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-11.u22	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for replying. Just a few more points. The minister talks about a small group, but he also nuances what's small and what's big. I get that, too; that's very good. At the same time, I can also see that if it is true that there are a number of things involved, tailor-made work is crucial. Mr Bertema spoke about this himself in his interruption. I think we've said 38 for chef's training now. These are as many as 38 men and women who can also help you strengthen the Dutch language. The Minister himself has also indicated that he and Minister Wiersma are busy developing and learning lifelong, including from the Dutch language. I would say: take that 38 right away and immediately develop it in Dutch only. The second point. I would like to ask the Minister if he will agree to an initial assessment of the law. Suppose there is a majority and this law would pass through the Second and Upper Chambers. I can also make an amendment to it, but I would like it to be evaluated after three years: what have we encountered so far, what are the problems and what are the solutions? In this way, the Chamber can, in future, see whether it works or not, even in new composition. Finally, I would like to ask the Minister if he can discuss with the inspection to see what role it can play. He indicated that the inspection has a role in the quality of education. Can he talk to the inspection to see what place it can get in, for example, the State of Education, so that we also have a separate chapter for the Caribbean? I think we're missing that in the table of contents. At least we're missing the overall situation. I think that's also divided into the different layers. Perhaps it is also good to see the effects of continuous learning and vocational education. All in all, I am, the VVD is, still not convinced. So we will vote against the bill, because we really believe that the problems that exist can be tackled in a different way stronger and better. And it's just a fact that the MBO degree in Bonaire, unfortunately, is really less, because the right of admission is being cut off, and that they are also not being properly prepared to get the best out of themselves. So thank you to the Minister for the answer, but I do not think that we are convinced with that answer, unfortunately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-11.u23	Thank you for your contribution to the second term. Mr Bertema has another interruption to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-11.u24	Well, no, an interruption... I would also like to thank the Minister for his reply, and I wish him a great deal of wisdom in the future. I would also like to endorse Mr El Yassini's comment, rather than my second term. We are very critical of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-11.u25	Thank you for your contribution in second term. The other Members do not need it. Then I'll go straight to the Minister for the second-term answer. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-11.u26	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you for the questions put by Mr El Yassini. All three important points, I think. How I read the first is actually: together with Minister Wiersma, we are going to look at the role of Dutch in the Caribbean part of the Netherlands, develop it in a lifetime; take it with us in this discussion that we have here around the MBO. That is, I think, a very useful discussion, and we can easily take this with us - or not easy, but it is certainly important that we merge these two discussions. Dan: an evaluation. I'd be happy to agree to that too. I think that's important, because we're taking a step. Very good to evaluate and see what can be good or better, or gone worse than we thought. The third point is the role of inspection. I am happy to say that too. Again, we may disagree here, but we do not differ on the importance that we also have for the Caribbean part of the Netherlands. It's a smaller community, but every individual counts, and I think the concerns we have with each other are important. And so I think that the idea of returning to the state of education in the BES islands is a very useful one. Finally, the remark, which may well sound a little bit, about a kind of devaluation of the diploma. Again, we might agree to disagree here. In other ways, we will no doubt discuss this further. If you do an education in the European part of the Netherlands, for example, in Dutch or in English, then I absolutely assume that these two diplomas have the same value. It is absolutely true that if you have done that education in English, there are probably possibilities that you do not have in Dutch, but at the same time we are not going to say that one is a kind of A diploma and the other is a B diploma. So I just want to make a distinction between the value and quality assurance of a diploma, and what exactly are the possibilities and the opportunities. And I'm gonna park it next to each other, but I just want to make the point that we don't give in to the quality here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-11.u27	Mr. Beertema.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-11.u28	Yes, Mr. Chairman. The Minister is making a bit of an effort to bring this up at the very last moment. The Papiament diploma does not give access to Dutch courses. So it's a flawed degree, no matter how you turn it or turn it around. And that's not English or German.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-11.u29	I didn't make a value judgment. I am just saying that it is not that we value an education in the Netherlands in English higher than that in Dutch, because it gives English diploma opportunities to pursue a further education around the world, whereas, if you have completed an exclusively Dutch language programme, you do not have those opportunities.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-11.u30	Mr El Yassini.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-11.u31	I'm sorry, Mr. President, I wouldn't have wanted to, but the Secretary of State is really invoking this. And I think it is true what the Minister says: we agree to agree. At the same time, I would like to tell him that, as far as the triple qualification requirement we have been talking about throughout the debate is concerned, number two is training for further training, including in higher education. The difference between Dutch and English, as indicated by the Minister, does not mean that you no longer have a right of admission to a university. Maybe the English, but not the Dutch or German. You still have a right of admission there. In the Papiaments it is removed. And that directly affects the value of an MBO paper on Bonaire.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-11.u32	I come to the conclusion that every comparison is flawed. I'll be careful using equations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-11.u33	Thank you for your answer, even in the second term. Thank you also for the flexibility of the Chamber, so that the Minister can award the Joke Smit Prize.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-11.u34	We will vote on the bill after May, Tuesday, May 10th. I'll suspend for a moment, then we'll move on to another subject.
