ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-13.u1	The next item is the debate on various laws that are being amended in relation to non-discrimination in youth care, care and support. The debate will be held by seven members of the Chamber with the Minister for Long-Term Care and Sport, whom I welcome again.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-13.u2	As the first speaker on the side of the Chamber, I wanted to give the floor to Mrs Westerveld, but I do not yet see him. Ha, I see her on my right, still in the walkway. She's on her way to the conference room. Yes, indeed, it's a surprise retreat. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-13.u3	Another entrance, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman. I'm glad we're going to talk about this law today, because this law was actually a hammer piece. We have rejected it because, as far as we are concerned, we have not given sufficient thought to the implications of this law for youth care and youth protection. We have a number of questions for the Minister. I have a technical question first. Article 11a is changed, I read, but I saw in the law that there is already an article 11a in the Quality, Complaints and Disputes Care Act. I was wondering if I was wrong about whether this is a mistake that needs to be changed for a while. Mr President, then on the law itself. Let us point out that GroenLinks is against silence and I actually think that all parties are against silence. It must never be the case that something happens and that someone is forced to keep his or her mouth shut about it. But I'd like to ask the Minister what exactly are the silent statements. What exactly is this law about? An illustration of TV programmes; some of us may have participated in this. For talent yachts like The Voice, it's perfectly normal that you agree that you don't tell the outcome, because it would be a bit unfortunate for the audience if that already knows in advance who won. We all think that's perfectly normal. But a non-binding clause must never lead to a cover-up culture and, for example, to non-reporting of matters such as sexual cross-border behaviour. Both of them are silence. I would therefore ask the Minister to tell us more about what we are talking about in her explanatory statement. What exactly does this include? At the same time, we have the question of whether this legislative proposal is necessary in order to arrange for incidents to be dealt with, I shall have a question about this later. I would like to ask the Minister: what exactly does this law add? The Council of State is also critical of this. In its opinion, the Council of State states that there are already sufficient possibilities within which non-binding terms can be prohibited. I would like to ask the Minister how she looks at that opinion, because the Council of State is actually saying that this law is not necessary. In addition, we also see some gaps in this bill, especially for youth care. That's what I said in my introduction. We note that the law lacks the prospect of the aid worker, while we know that more and more youth workers, especially youth protection workers, are dealing with aggression and physical or verbal violence. By way of illustration, last Friday I visited a number of youth protectors with my colleague, Mr Kuik, and at some point the question was asked as to who had ever been involved in aggression or in physical or verbal violence, and there was actually no one who had not had anything to do with it. They also told us that a few weeks ago we could also read in an article in the Algemeen Dagblad (Agemeen Dagblad) that there are websites on which their names are mentioned and on which sometimes the most terrible things are told about youth protectors. On one of those accounts, this is from the AD article, even called for the death penalty for the "state skid kidnappers," as a number of people called them. And that is what we saw during that work visit, which is really the value of good helpers. They can often make a real contribution to ensuring that children are safer and often contribute to preventing the removal of children. I am also saying this because of the shortage of care, especially in youth care and youth protection. We know people leave because they often have to deal with violence. So I'd like a response from the Minister to that. Mr. Chairman. I know there's a law in the making to counter doxing, publishing private data. But that law has not yet been filed, and we all know that if a law has not yet been passed, it can wait a few years. We hear from youth protectors that in the meantime they are afraid that, partly by this law, they are less protected against such practices, i.e. against the disclosure of data. I'd like to ask the Minister how she looks at that and whether she understands that fear. Mr. Chairman. We also have a number of questions about the scope of this law, especially about the word 'incident', because the youth domain is subject to different legal frameworks. The youth domain is covered by the Youth Act and not by the Quality, Complaints and Disputes Act, the Wkkgz. This bill seems to be based on the Wkkgz, while for example the word "incident" does not even appear in the Youth Act. The legal provisions and also the case law on the Wkkgz do not say enough what an incident should mean. So they do not apply to the Youth Act, we understand. I would like to ask the Minister how she sees it, whether she sees this problem and whether she believes that the term 'incident' is also appropriate for youth care. We believe that the current broad definition of "incident" can create a great deal of uncertainty in the youth domain, especially in the context of youth protection. There's actually everything an incident. You intervene in the life of parents, and often against the will of parents and sometimes of young people, so something is very quickly an incident. What does that do with this law? I'd like to ask the Minister. Can she describe more precisely what's under that term? Perhaps a very concrete example. Suppose there's an incident with a child in an institution, but both child and paramedic don't want the parents to find out. That can be done, of course, because some children are placed out of their homes because there is an unsafe situation at home. I can imagine that sometimes children do not want parents to be informed of all the incidents, or that it is being told to parents. What can be agreed about it? Because I can also imagine that such a child, for example, does not want it to be hung by the big clock, while parents may want to come out. Every now and then we all see, I think, videos, for example on Facebook, of parents telling about an incident that sometimes concerns their children. What about children's privacy? Mr. Chairman. As far as we are concerned, too little attention seems to be paid to the relationship between young people and parents. Especially when it comes to unsafe home situations, that is a complex, and certainly in the forced context of youth protection. The interests of children and parents are not always the same. Mr. Chairman. I would also like to ask the Minister why youth protection and safety at home are covered by this law, but the Children's Protection Council is not. Because if this bill cannot apply to the Children's Protection Board, then it is not workable for youth protection either. I would like to know from the Minister how she sees it. Mr. Chairman. I would also like to ask the Minister whether it might be an option, and I do not yet know if that is the best one, I honestly say that to get the youth services out of this bill and perhaps to make another bill for it. How does the Minister view that? Is that desirable? Once again, I am not saying that I am in favour of this now, but in view of all the questions and concerns we have, I would also like to put this question to the Minister. Should there perhaps be something more consistent with the Youth Act? Mr. Chairman. We are also working on a number of amendments. I realize we're a little late with that. If it is correct, these amendments are now being tabled or have just been tabled. Those amendments are about complaint procedures, because the best way to prevent incidents is to ensure that there are proper complaint procedures. This does not always mean that formal complaints are also made, but if you have a proper complaint procedure, it can often ensure that situations are resolved properly. However, it is desirable for young people themselves to be involved in the preparation of complaints procedures. So we have a number of amendments that aim to ensure that young people are better involved and that complaints procedures are also established with the client council or with a reflection of clients, so that you look together: how can we ensure that complaints are handled properly within, for example, an institution? This is also in line with a recent study carried out by the AKJ, the trusted people in youth care.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-13.u4	This indicates that young people are keen to be taken seriously and want to be heard, and that a proper complaint procedure contributes to this. Mr. Chairman. I have another amendment. This is about giving young people their own say in their treatment. The Youth Act now states that the provision of aid must be tailored to the younger, but I would very much like a young person to have his own say, because that will make it much more likely that treatment will actually work. This is also in line with a work visit I made a while ago with Mr De Neef van de VVD. Then we also visited a youth organization. That's where we talked to the kids. One of our questions to the young people was: what really helped you? Then they said that someone asked me what I needed. With these words, I should like to conclude my speech. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-13.u5	Thank you for your contribution, Mrs Westerveld. I have taken over the presidency of Mr Van der Lee, not that you think he has changed very quickly in me. Then we arrive at the second speaker. I would like to give the floor to Mr Kwint on behalf of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-13.u6	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I thought: Mr Van der Lee looks good. I'm getting extra speaking time now, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-13.u7	Double. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-13.u8	Mr. Chairman. How do you make people feel safe to speak out about abuses? How do you ensure that professionals can do their job safely? And how do you prevent people from being frustrated by something that makes the work of others impossible? For us, that is about the core of the law we are discussing today. I will cut the tension a little bit: we are in favour of making silence in the care sector impossible. With a law, as far as we understand it, you won't have to go to the judge first to determine whether something could be against or against good morals or public order, but it is precisely the silence itself that is no longer permitted. We think that's good. We believe that in the healthcare sectors we're talking about today, very driven people work with heart for the business and their clients, but that doesn't mean that there can never be a bad person in between or that there can never be a good person in between who does bad things once. That's not crazy either, because care is human work. It's about people's lives, it's given to people and it's about the relationship between the caregiver and the caregiver. It's not easy to pour into a mold. A non-disclosure clause then usually serves simply as a way to cover things that you would rather not have others see. We need to get rid of that. It's as simple as that. We have all seen in the past the tragic examples of what some healthcare providers have wanted to cover with a contract here or there. Then there may be codes, such as professional codes and sector codes, but if you, as a government, consider such a thing of great importance, then indeed, as far as we are concerned, you should not rely on self-regulation but on legislation. I think it's a good idea for the government to see this. Should she feel the need to get a list of the SP with other sectors in which you could also switch from self-regulation to legislation, I would be happy to forward it to the cabinet. I am curious to see what exactly the government has decided to consider self-regulation to be insufficient in this particular case. Can it be stated how often these kinds of terms are ultimately used and how many times this process to the courts has been necessary in the past? Or is there another reason why this process was finally chosen? The employers in various healthcare sectors we are talking about today point to another risk, namely slander campaigns against their people on social media, for example; Mrs Westerveld also spoke quite extensively about it. Everyone in the room knows what you're talking about, because you just have to open your mailbox in the morning and you're in the most horrible e-mails with long-term tirades, completely copy-pasted treatment files, screenshot whatsapps and so on. It's all not nice what people say about and to people. I am thinking of the endless e-mails with the most terrible allegations, often sent by people who are desperate, but who are now crossing a line when it comes to the treatment of aid workers. What can be emailed to us can of course also be posted on Twitter, on Facebook and in all kinds of other places. Before you know it, an aid worker with name and name on the Internet, sometimes with address and phone number, including the most horrible allegations and accusations of what someone has done. That is, of course, the problem: no one can check whether any of it is true. Anyone can blow something online. That could ruin someone's life well. In fact, it could lead people to leave the sector. If there's something we can't have in care, it's that people leave the sector unnecessarily. We see that risk. I really want to ask the government what is currently being done to reduce that risk for aid workers. Is it possible to see how they can be better protected together with aid workers? And what about the bill on doxing? Mrs Westerveld also asked. That could be a major step in that direction. But what I don't see is how that risk for aid workers is immediately apparent that that play... would be increased by this law, other than a somewhat vague construction about perhaps sending out a signal. Then let me give you the signal here: you don't touch our aid workers with your paws. However, as far as we're concerned, you're still gonna have to get rid of those silences. And I also want to highlight another side here. I'm not doing that to justify harassment. 'Cause you're not gonna touch any helpers. But it is not rare, for example, in the case of youth care and youth protection, that they are desperate parents who have lost their child. These parents often feel that their great injustice has been done to them. It doesn't matter whether they feel right or not. They feel that no one has ever looked closely at what has happened. They feel that in the process of removal, this has not been done sufficiently carefully. Among other things, a motion has been adopted, and I believe that it belonged to Mr Peters, which states that you should actually anchor that truth in that path. I am very curious to know what is going on with the implementation of that motion. I say again: the fact that such a thing has happened is no excuse for misbehaviour. But if you want to do something about these abuses, sometimes you need to know, then you have to understand where it comes from. It's said, "You've got to calm down a little bit." That's easier said than done when it comes to your own child. Is it weird that, for example, when the government answers, a child parent doesn't believe it anymore: trust us, because we'll make sure it's all taken care of? I don't think that's too crazy. That is why I say: if you make things clear in front of you and can also be better followed by people, that can also lead to less frustration at the back. I say again: the moment someone goes over the line, it doesn't matter at the time how it happened, because then someone goes over the line. But if you want to help aid workers, you can also do so by preventing people from feeling trapped. Finally. I've got a lot of time to deal with education. Within that education, we have also seen silent contracts in recent years, in many different ways. We've been through it with critical teachers who got it together with the school board. We've been through it with hazing at student associations. And we've even experienced it, as a blow to the flames, at a reformatorical school where, after the mental abuse of a young girl who was about to be forced out of the closet, that girl was also allowed to sign a contract that said that it wasn't supposed to be all this coming out. What is preventing us from considering whether a law like this, which is now before us, could possibly be helpful in other sectors, such as education? I wonder if the cabinet is prepared to think about that as well. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-13.u9	Thank you for your contribution, Mr. Kwint. I call Mrs Kuik. She speaks on behalf of the PvdA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-13.u10	I'm doing something very unusual. I haven't been able to print my contribution, so that's why I'm doing it on my phone. Anyway, now that Mrs. Simons isn't here, someone needs to take over. I wish her well from this place. Mr. Chairman. We are talking about the silence. It is a good thing that this bill lays down that a non-disclosure clause relating to the provision of information on incidents in youth care and support is automatically null and void. That's a broad-based wish. It is also a good thing that none of the parties can invoke such a non-binding clause. But there is indeed a number of questions to ask. My questions largely overlap with those already asked by the first and second speakers. I have a few more questions. It is certainly said that silence is undesirable. At the same time, I note that four out of the five notifications in 2020 in the inspection of a possible contract of silence, it has not been established whether this contract of silence was indeed undesirable. Are there also situations where a contract of silence is desirable? Mrs Westerveld gave a number of examples. I'd like to join her in asking about that. How often does a non-disclosure clause with an undesirable provision occur in the care area? What are the most recent figures the Minister has on this? We note that the Minister is unable to assess the number of non-binding terms that are prevented by this legislation. Does he have any insight into that? A number of questions have also been asked, which we also heard during our work visit, about the privacy of clients and employees. My question to the Minister is: what additional guarantees can we offer to youth care? The Minister says he wants to monitor defamation and defamation. At the same time, care providers are deeply concerned about the impact of the legislation on their privacy. Many youth care professionals suffer from online threats and slander. There are countless examples of this. The fear that this legislation will lead to more burdens must therefore be taken seriously. Just referring to the GDPR doesn't seem sufficient to me, because once something is on the Internet and we still don't have enough tools to actively remove it, it's just there. Finally, Mr President. The Minister states that she wants to sit at the table with domes of healthcare providers and patient organisations about their wishes regarding the information campaign. Has the Minister done this yet? How does this take shape? Will attention be paid here too to the piece of privacy and the fear that there is among the youth care workers? Thank you very much. I look forward to the answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-13.u11	Thank you for your contribution, Mrs. Chicken. I would like to give the floor to Mr Peters on behalf of the CDA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-13.u12	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am participating in this debate on behalf of Mr Cedar of the Christian Union. Mr. Chairman. It is a well-known painting by Shoshannah Brombacher: two Jewish men seem to sit quietly opposite each other at the table. From the outside a blue light shines in the room, in such a way that it is absolutely clear that both men are at the same wavelength length. They're really in touch with each other without saying anything. According to the story that goes with the painting, the men get up after a while because they're done talking. Can that, uh, speak without talking? Yeah, you can. As one can speak without saying anything. It stands and falls with real contact, with confidence, with equality, with empathy and with attention. With careful search for words that fit both. This being in contact with each other, this relationship, is the basis of growth, of learning and of a peaceful existence. Mr. Chairman. Life isn't makeable. It's not within care, not within youth care and not outside. Sometimes things don't go as planned. It is precisely then that real contact is important, sometimes of vital importance. It fits within a professional working culture that incidents are discussed, that the relationship is restored and that everything is done to learn together from how things can be better. That's how it's gonna be and that's how it's gonna be. Working with soul and pettyness. There are no non-binding contracts, and that is quite clear to us. Mr. Chairman. The desired reality of youth care and youth protection, in which professionals and parents and children work together with soul and purpose and from the relationship does not in all cases resemble the reality experienced by everyone. Incidents cause stress. Stress that was present in many cases before. That then creates violent reactions on the one hand and the setting of clear limits on the other. That's gonna get the stress back on. This downward spiral cannot be solved by rules, by terms or by boundaries, but only by calm, human contact, however difficult this may be. Every scientist will say it: learning and stress don't go together and reducing stress doesn't go by setting boundaries on one hand and using big words on the other. Mr. Chairman. Which brings us to the law amendment. I've never actually seen such a hush-hush. Is that a contract between an institution and a person who has been injured and the text that speaks about the incident to the outside is clearly forbidden and what sanctions are in place if you do not comply with it? Or is it a letter from an institution within the forced framework that asks kindly but urgently to stop spreading half-truths about a decision taken by the judge? I'm assuming it's the first and not the second. Whether they occur much or not, silence is not good and not allowed. It doesn't matter if a person is involved through the court after that, Mr. Kwint said that he would have to undo such a thing. That disturbs the disturbed relations even further. Such a silence on incidents is at the expense of clients, as they are prevented from talking about profound and perhaps dramatic events. It ensures that learning together is excluded in advance. This obviously does not improve the quality of care. Mr President, a number of questions. Due to the broad wording of the legislative text, some fear that there is a high risk of confusion in the youth domain as to which agreement is permissible or not. Does the Minister share this fear and can the Minister elaborate on this? Films of employees, recorded conversations: can they be distributed integrally via socials from now on? Or is that clearly not the intention? Can the Secretary of State comment on the phenomenon of doxing? That has been mentioned twice today. Of course, incidents should be made public, but would the Minister like to comment explicitly on the limits of such disclosure and how the word 'incident' should be interpreted? That's pretty close. I can imagine that people who disagree with, for example, youth protection want to make their story public, while youth protection does not want or can make public its side of the story for privacy. Is it true that the Children's Protection Council is not covered by this law and, for example, neither is the College of B and W? If so, why not? Isn't that desirable? Mr President, in summary. Martin Buber said it: in the beginning the relationship is. Without a relationship, no conversation and no concern. Incidents cause stress. Especially in a stressful relationship, this requires a lot of professionals. Setting hard boundaries is humanly predictable from the healthcare provider's perspective, but it often doesn't help. It is the art, especially in the event of incidents, to restore the relationship, to work together on solutions and learn from mistakes and how to do better. The CDA and the Christian Union are in favour of this legislative amendment. We ask the Minister to explicitly address the interpretation of the word "incident" and the limits and risks of unilateral disclosure and of the sharing of confidential information. Mr President, concluding. Care, especially youth care, are complicated branches of sport. It takes a lot, a lot of everyone involved. This includes an adult and professional culture: working with soul and professionality from a relationship. Partly on behalf of the Christian Union, I hope that this bill will contribute to such a culture and trigger the discussion about such a culture, without employees or clients feeling cornered. So far.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-13.u13	Thank you for your contribution, Mr. Peters. I would like to give the floor to Mrs Maeijer on behalf of the PVV Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-13.u14	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is unacceptable to require a person to remain silent, to allow a person to refrain from making a declaration or from making a notification at the time of the inspection or the course to the disciplinary judge or the media. Shut-up contracts are meant to cover things up. That's something that's not right. For this reason, non-profit-making contracts are unacceptable. Moreover, mistakes made by these types of agreements do not allow lessons to be learned for the future. Other clients in the same care institution may also be in the same boat and may continue to suffer further abuses. The Health and Youth Inspectorate calls non-binding contracts an obstacle to openness and transparency in healthcare. That's right. By imposing a contract of silence, the quality and safety of care cannot be monitored. Moreover, it is undesirable that patients, clients or relatives should not be allowed to express themselves about what has happened to them and about mistakes that have been made. Such a contract should not hinder or impede a person from expressing his or her opinion, including in the media. We agree with this Minister that having a contract of silence is a heavy emotional burden if a client, patient or next of kin cannot and should not lose his story. Mr. Chairman. We all know the example of the boy who was given a silent contract after being placed with a single foster father as a teenager, who then abused him. After expressing this, he still had to live with this foster father for two months. After years of fighting, he received compensation, but he had to sign a non-disclosure contract stating that he was not allowed to talk to anyone about this case. Mr. Chairman. We also know the mentally handicapped who had to sign a contract to silence them about the financial abuses and mental and physical abuse that had been going on for years. Also Safe Home concluded a contract that contained characteristics of a silent contract. Parents had to promise that they would never talk to the press about the legal battle in which they had ended after Safe Home suspected the parents of making their own child ill. Unrighteous, turned out to be. Mr. Chairman. These are just a few examples of the unwelcomeness and inadmissibility of prayers in care. Research has shown that, fortunately, the number of contracts of silence in the care sector is limited, but the issues involved are equally serious and very undesirable. As far as we are concerned, therefore, every contract of silence is too much. Can the Minister indicate whether there are also more recent figures on the use of non-disclosure contracts in healthcare? Mr. Chairman. The Council of State agrees with the importance of this bill, but has reservations about the need. I would like to hear a response from the Minister and a clear argument as to why this proposal is necessary in addition to the existing rules and standards, and why it is now and at first not. What exactly is "an incident"? Colleagues have already asked this. Mr. Chairman. Several healthcare providers also warn about the possible negative effects of this bill. For example, Youth Care Netherlands points out that the bill is not in line with the specific context and practice of youth care and that sometimes, in the interests of the child, non-public agreements are made. What can and can't be agreed? I'd like a response from the Minister. How are the interests of healthcare professionals guaranteed? How are they adequately protected? How often do data disclosures by youth care professionals occur? Youth Care The Netherlands also points out that the Children's Protection Council is not included in the legislative proposal. Is that true and why exactly is that so? Mr. Chairman. The Minister states that there will be information on the legislative proposal. In what way will this happen? With this bill, silence will be null and void. Our group would like to point out to people where they can still report any non-compliances, should they occur even after this legislative proposal. The former Minister thought it was a good idea to take up our suggestion to include this in the information. Can this Minister confirm that he is actually going to do so? Finally, Mr President. This bill will prohibit non-binding contracts with care. So that's a pre-blockage. The bill provides that the legal nullity of a non-disclosure clause and judicial review of the Civil Code is no longer necessary. None of the parties can rely on the non-disclosure clause. In short, a client, patient or next of kin doesn't have to go to court anymore. This bill will strengthen the position of clients, patients and next of kin, and that weighs very heavily on us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-13.u15	Thank you for your contribution, Mrs Maeijer. Then we have arrived at Mr De Neef on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-13.u16	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to begin with a personal exhortation of a relatively new Member of Parliament: myself. Sometimes you marvel at the present matter, in this case about non-compliance contracts in the event of incidents in the care. Shut up about things you should learn from. Shut up while sharing also means healing to the one who's done something nasty. But instead of sharing pain, sadness and mistakes, we need to sign to keep quiet about it. That's a laughable business. That is also what everyone who has found something of non-disclosure contracts in the up-to-date version of this bill thinks. Suppliers are against contracts of silence, client representatives are against them, and I think everyone in this Chamber is against them. Silence about mistakes that need to be learned is out of the question. But whether a specific ban should be imposed is verse two. In fact, non-binding contracts are already prohibited. There is already a monitoring of the fight through both NZa and IGJ codes of conduct as well as through the courts. So why another explicit ban on the front? The explanatory memorandum and the note on the report provide guidance, but also the discussions I have had with staff in youth and youth care. They send out exactly the same signals: they are against contracts of silence and at the same time they need more protection for themselves. The other day I spoke to a youth psychologist who sometimes with fear and trembling opens her mailbox and LinkedIn because she regularly hears insults and threats. This is where openness passes to personal misery, and that cannot be the intention. That is why my first question to the Minister is how she weighs the concerns of the Netherlands and other youth sectors in particular about the scope of this law. I do not want to end up in an epistemological debate about what exactly is meant by silence, but I understand the concerns about the possible daily effects, especially since the concerns have come to my attention one-on-one. When is information banned under this law and when is it not? Or does the right to information apply in full, allowing for example to share audio recordings without permission? And with whom? In short, when is there a contract of silence? How does it all work in the protection of the healthcare professional? How is it protected against online hatred, harassment, threats, defamation and/or slander? From the field I have seen several times frustration and despair as a result of witch hunts that are called on by social media about care workers. How does the Cabinet protect these people? I ask that because I have heard several times that care workers are threatening to drop out because this part of the job gives them the most stress and sleepless nights.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-13.u17	One moment, Mr. Cousin. I see that Mr Kwint is interrupting.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-13.u18	I stood up when Mr De Neef said that he was not in the mood for epistemological discussions. I know him a bit and I wonder, but I share the points concerning the safety of the care workers. However, I have just said in my contribution that, reading the law, I have difficulty in identifying what this law would make worse for caregivers. I totally agree that it should have our full attention in what way you should keep aid workers and caregivers safe and I have also read the objections, but I do not read this back in the law. Maybe you found it or maybe you could help me get on my way with how you read the law yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-13.u19	I agree with Mr Kwint. I also just read it from the idea that a silent contract actually says everything. In this context, the fact that there are certain parts that you should not talk about is in any case reprehensible. I would say that you look epistemologically at what is covered by "silence" and what you mean by it in the most philosophical sense. Actually, we agree on that. This is just a part of which we, as VVD, too, say that this is simply not possible. So we don't have to let go of that word-exegesis in my image.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-13.u20	Mr. Kwint, let's give it a try.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-13.u21	Yeah, I was just having second thoughts. I think we agree that you should not start, but I also see employers ringing the bell and saying: watch out for our people. I think that's a very fair call. I just don't get him linked to this law because I don't see how this law would worsen the position of aid workers or health care workers. I was wondering if you'd see that differently or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-13.u22	Once again, I agree with Mr Kwint: I cannot read it like that. That is why I have questions about it, and I will come back to that in my speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-13.u23	Proceed with your contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-13.u24	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I understand very well that we want to strengthen the rights of the clients and strengthen them a priori. That is what my group is in favour of, and she warmly welcomes this part of the legislative proposal. But I also ask the cabinet how it wants to protect healthcare workers who cannot defend themselves against online aggression. I would like a reflection from the Minister on this wide-ranging and justified concern. Mr. Chairman. Another concern is that this proposal aligns the youth domain with the care domain in which other legal frameworks apply. In any case, the first domain concerns both parents and children who have to deal with privacy rules in a unique way. My predecessors had already mentioned this. But it can also differ in terms of interests: a child in the forced context can have different interests than his parents, for example. How does the cabinet weigh this situation? And how are silences in this legal framework designed, especially when the Youth Act applies in the youth domain, and not the Quality, Complaints and Disputes in Care Act? The law before us today mainly concerns the Wkkgz, which is being translated into Youth Protection and Safe Home when it comes to incidents. But the Youth Act doesn't even mention this word. So I would like to know from the Minister whether she is aware of this perhaps unintended cross-pollination of various laws, which in turn can cause Babylonian speech confusion or, worse still, a serious violation of the daily work of youth workers and youth care workers. This new law can ensure that sensitive information is shared, while it may be wise in the best interests of the child not to disclose it. The present law is a priori normative, almost identical to the kantian idea that one should never lie. This seems very pure and correct at first glance, but reality will always show that in the grey area of consideration other arguments will pay off. Does the Minister agree with the VVD that tailor-made work should therefore be offered here? And by "here," I mean: within the youth domain, where other dynamics apply than within the care domain. It is the difference between the judicial framework and the care framework. At the latter it is relatively easy to agree kantian "Thou shalt not remain silent about thy actions." In the field of youth protection and youth care, the VVD considers that pragmatic reasoning should be used. I'd like the Minister's reflection on this. Mr. Chairman. I'm rounding up. The path of this bill is a long one, and the underlying law to ban silent contracts at the front in order to strengthen the client position, the VVD finds good and logical. The previous minister proposed a ban on silence on the occasion of a 2019 Nieuwsuur broadcast. The net was then picked up, and this turned out to occur occasionally, if not sporadically. The irony, of course, is that silent contracts don't come up by themselves, or swim in the net because there is indeed! It is important to keep quiet about this, and that there is no doubt that there is much at stake for the people who are signing it, which means that communication still works at their disadvantage. It is therefore a good thing that the cabinet wants to set a standard. And if it actually strengthens client positions, then this whole exercise has succeeded. But we have to do this carefully. I therefore look forward to the reflection of the cabinet on the discrepancy between the care and the youth framework in particular. And I love apples and pears as a vegan, but I also know you can't compare them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-13.u25	Thank you for your contribution, Mr. Cousin. Then we have arrived at the last speaker. I would like to give the floor to Mrs Sahla of D66. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-13.u26	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's a good thing we're talking about the law that forbids silence. Quiet contracts in care are my party, and many parties with us, a thorn in the eye. In preparation for this treatment, I read the encouragement of fellow minister Raemakers from 2019; and 2020, when this law would come into effect. I'm glad we can treat him now. Shut-up contracts don't belong in health care. If things go wrong, we need to be able to learn from them. I also notice that positive attitude in many healthcare professionals I encounter. Fortunately, silence is a symptom of the few exceptions to this attitude in care. Still, they occur. That means this law is necessary. Under current laws and regulations, patients and clients can already ask the court to annul their contract, or the supervisor can intervene afterwards. My group welcomes the fact that, with this law, we can prevent this process to the courts for many victims. The question to the Minister is: how is that message clear for everyone in the information campaign, so that people do not have to go to court? You would prefer that people can use a clear message on the IGJ's site if someone is pressured because of a silence clause. If you look at the IGJ's website now, it does say that non-disclosure is not part of the care, but there are few leads to take immediate action to nullify the non-disclosure clause. Nor are there any statements that it simply cannot be done. Another aspect is the following. If you are looking on the internet for ways to file a complaint or report a failure, besides the official channels, you will also see all kinds of legal consultants who want to show you the way for a fee. How is the cabinet going to involve these consultancy firms in the implementation of this law, so that they also communicate that such non-binding terms are automatically null and void and do not still advise a course to the judge or dispute committee? More generally, we have the question: does the existence of these agencies not imply that the reporting structures for complaints and abuses in care are too opaque? What's the Cabinet gonna do about it? How will the cabinet deal with already closed terms of silence that are not covered by the scope of this law? Does this change of law not imply that these terms of silence are more difficult to annul or that it takes longer for enforcement to take place? Mr. Chairman. This law applies to the whole of care, including youth care and youth protection. In doing so, concepts from the Wkkgz, such as the term "incident," are applied to forms of care which are not actually covered by that law. Mr Peters and Mrs Westerveld, among others, have said this. Can the Minister comment on the consequences of extending the Wkkgz's application to parts to other forms of care? And can the Minister comment on the choice to include youth protection under this law, but not, for example, the Children's Protection Board, which is part of the same youth protection chain? Another concern is the signals that our group receives from healthcare workers. They fear that this law implies that people may freely share data, sound fragments or video fragments from healthcare professionals. We understand those signals. We would ask the Minister to deal with this in detail in the near future. Mr. Chairman. Let it be borne in mind that we must at all times prevent us from ending up in a claim culture, as in the United States, in which caregivers must be wary that conversations against them can be used. We understand from the answers to our questions that sharing private data from employees and audio or video fragments remains prohibited under the GDPR or the laws on defamation and slander. However, the GDPR is not the most accessible and understandable regulation we have, to say the least. What action is the government taking to prevent this effect from occurring? How do we prevent people who have experienced an annoying experience in care from expressing this in a way that is contrary to the GDPR? Such a breach of the privacy rules is known only to losers: a healthcare professional who sees his personal data made public and a patient or client who may still be brought to justice, not because of breach of a contract of silence but because of breach of the GDPR or other rules. What actions does the cabinet take to prevent these situations and to assist people in making a complaint or miscarriage known in a responsible manner? Mr. Chairman. It is good to actively pay attention to the responsible sharing of complaints and abuses in healthcare in the information campaign and in the communication of the Dutch Health Service. We're considering a motion for this. In this way, the privacy of professionals is protected and can be done justice to clients. That balance is the starting point for us in assessing this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-13.u27	Thank you for your contribution in plenary, Mrs Sahla. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. The Minister indicated that he needed half an hour to prepare for the answer to the questions, including the appreciation of the four amendments. So I'm suspending until 4:55 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-13.u28	Once again, welcome to the people in the room. At this time when we have less trouble with corona, we can receive visitors again. It's good to see you here. Also a word of welcome to the people at home. The next item is the continuation of the debate on the amendment of various laws relating to silence in youth care, care and support, 35771. We are ready to answer the questions of the House of Representatives in the first term of office of the Minister. I would like to give the floor to the Minister for Long-Term Care and Sport, Mrs Helder.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-13.u29	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll start with an introduction. I understand that's part of the legal history when it comes to the purpose of the law. We are discussing today the bill that nullifies non-binding terms. Silence about incidents is completely undesirable. With this bill, we can banish them. Silence does not fit in with openness, not with safety, not with good care and not with good help. An open culture is essential for good and safe care, youth care and social support. It is only through openness that it is possible to talk to each other, even if things have not gone well. Open talk about what went wrong helps the care and helping clients advance. After all, learning what goes wrong promotes safety. This is the only way to learn from mistakes. This also prevents an error from being repeated. But for that to happen, we need to be able to have the conversation with each other. So we need to know what's going on. So openness also means that clients can talk to others about what happened in the care or help. That is especially true when there is an incident, if something goes wrong in the care. It can be very profound for a client and it is important that he or she can talk to relatives and agencies about what happened and what it does to him. Sometimes, after an incident, providers and clients agree that information about an incident should not be made public or not be disclosed to others. In short, the client is supposed to remain silent about the incident. That's what we call a silence clause. In my opinion, silence is undesirable for three reasons. When it comes to the quality of youth care, care and support, it is at stake when it comes to avoiding errors. If it needs to be kept quiet, it cannot be learned from it. Silence doesn't fit in with good governance either. Transparency about the quality of care or aid is an important value of good governance. In addition, silent terms put the position of clients under pressure. They are thwarted to talk about an incident with neighbors, professionals, agencies or the media, while that usually helps them process it. Although in general silences are not in a positive light even now, they still occur occasionally. With my predecessors, your Chamber has discussed a number of concrete cases. The investigation carried out by the inspection in 2016 and 2017 showed that in 8 out of 55 cases there was a silence clause. There has also recently been a case in which the inspection concluded that there were undesirable confidentiality provisions in the agreement. With the bill now before us, we are putting an end to these unwanted silences. At the same time, this has also been reflected in the questions put by Members of Parliament. I will come back to this in the answer to the questions in cubes. Mr President, I have five cubes. First, I'm gonna go into the scope of the law. Then I come to the protection of the privacy of the employees. Many MPs mentioned this point. Then I come to the relationship between the Wkkgz and the Youth Act. How can we continue to deal with information and communication? There is another block of varia and finally I will deal with the amendments. I see the visitors are leaving the gallery again. But thank you for coming! A number of questions have been asked about the scope of the law, but I would first like to address Mrs Westerveld van GroenLinks' technical question: Article 11a is being changed, but there is already an article 11a in the Wkkgz? Is this correct or should this be changed? It is true that there is already an Article 11a. This has been incorporated into the law by the Financial Review Act proposed quality standards. This has been taken into account in this legislative proposal by means of a co-determination clause. In the end, it will become Article 110a, so there is no need to change it. You, as well as the VVD, have asked what a non-disclosure clause is exactly. A silence clause is an agreement between a provider and a client. The legislative proposal is about the agreement that no information about an incident is made public or given to third parties. It may be an agreement not to tell the media, but it is certainly wider than that. It may also be about agreements to remain silent about the inspection, not to file disciplinary charges and the like. You also asked about the necessity, referring to the opinion of the Council of State. In my opinion, the legal anchoring of the nullity of non-binding terms has an important added value. Firstly, we explicitly regulate that non-binding terms are legally null and void. So there's no point in shutting them down. They have no legal force and with that we set a very clear legal standard. We are also sending out a very clear signal as a government. On the other hand, the Council of State says that there are already standards. That is true in itself, but prayers of silence apparently thrive and they thrive mainly in silence. Supervision and enforcement are only possible if matters come to the fore. Due to a silence clause, patients will sometimes not dare to report to a supervisor. That's why it's more effective to make sure there's no point in shutting them down. The parties shall not be bound by the confidentiality agreement. An advantage is also that clients then no longer have to go to court to have those silent things judged on the basis of a violation of good morals or public order, because they are simply legally null and void. This strengthens the position of clients in care, youth care and support. For me, that weighs more heavily than other effects. I will come back to the privacy of the employees and the concerns that I recognise about this. Mrs Sahla asked when there was an incident. We keep the description of the Wkkgz: an incident is an unintended unexpected event that relates to the quality of care, where there is damage or a potential for damage to the patient. So it's about things that really went wrong or could have gone wrong in the care. An example could be a patient who has received or fallen down on the wrong medication. Moreover, an incident as soon as it results in serious injury or death must always be reported to the IGJ without delay, because it is then a calamity. GroenLinks and the CDA asked why the Children's Protection Council is not covered by the bill and how I see it. This bill is based on different laws of care. Specific care laws to strengthen the position of clients have been chosen. The Children's Protection Board does not fall within the scope of juvenile law and is governed by child protection legislation. There are also other areas of activity that could be covered by this proposal. I believe that Mr Kwint mentioned education. That is not the case here, because it is specifically about the relationship between client and provider. As this law has been filed, I really want to set a limit to go through with it. The law, like any law, also has an assessment clause that might allow us to decide otherwise later, but not now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-13.u30	One moment, indeed. I see Mr Peters for an interruption. Mr. Peters.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-13.u31	I understood that the Council for Children's Protection falls under the jurisdiction of the Justice Department and that is why it is not in this area. But don't you think it's a weird style figure? In this case, would you not have preferred to see the Youth Protection Chain, which we are yet to discuss, not organize all these discs and put the Children's Protection Council in the same chain? In any way.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-13.u32	Just for a minute, Mr. Peters. You will speak to the Minister through the President.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-13.u33	Sorry. I forgot.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-13.u34	It's okay. It's okay. Madam President, I'm sorry, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-13.u35	Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-13.u36	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-13.u37	I understand what Mr Peters is saying. It may not be the right answer, but I'm not really talking about that. So this is not the case here either. The next item is the debate on whether or not we can avoid non-disclosure in health care. We can do that by bringing this law into force, which makes them null and void. We have not chosen to include the whole child protection chain in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-13.u38	I understand that, but my question would actually be: isn't that desirable? I understand that it is not the case now, that you are not talking about it and that you are adapting one law which includes, for example, youth rehabilitation, youth protection and Safe Home, but not education, colleges of B and W and the Council of Children's Protection. But, of course, the Council for Children's Protection should be in this whole chain. Are you going to contact the minister who is about that, or are we just gonna leave it that way?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-13.u39	I think every chain that works well is better than a chain that doesn't work well. But I can't help but notice that I'm not in charge of it. I can only take your question to the Minister of JenV and to the Secretary of State, but I can't answer it for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-13.u40	Please continue answering the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-13.u41	There was a question from the GroenLinks and D66 groups whether we should make an exception. There will be an amendment later. One option is to get juvenile care out of the bill and make another bill. There should be something more consistent with the Youth Act. I now believe that there should be no separate regulation for young people. I believe that your amendment is about this, so I would like to come back to that later, through the amendment. Then there is a question from the PvdA whether there are situations where a contract might be desirable. The nullity of silence in this bill is only about incidents, but there are also other matters that are agreed upon. These are, for example, agreements on a certain amount of money as compensation. I'm not against that in itself. The point is that, by nullifying the terms of silence, we must prevent incidents from getting covered up when we simply have to talk about them. In addition, parties are of course free to make agreements with each other. Mr. Kwint asked about silence in other sectors. He asked what prevents us from looking at other sectors, such as education. I just gave you an answer there. That's not for today. In addition, every sector is different in terms of regulations and organisation. So it takes a good look at how you want to handle it in the sector. I'd like to stick to the bill before us. There was another question about how often non-disclosures with undesirable provisions occur in care and what are the most recent figures. That is incredibly difficult to estimate, because the nature of silence is that they can thrive in silence. So they could be under the radar. In my introduction, I mentioned the research of the IGJ from 2016-2017. 55 reports were examined, of which eight were found to be non-binding at the time. Since 2017, the IGJ has received 18 notifications. In one case, it has been established that there was a contract of silence. One report is still under investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-13.u42	One moment. I see there's been an interruption by Mrs Westerveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-13.u43	In fact, I raised the question of whether there should be a separate legislative proposal for the Youth Act in the first period, because some of the issues covered by this law do seem to apply to the Wkkgz, but not to the Youth Act. I already heard the minister in her reply say something about the relationship between client and provider. In the Youth Act, of course, you also have the parents. After that, the Minister indicated that she will be returning to our amendment on the question. However, our amendment is about something else. It may also be in my second term, but the question remains whether there should be a separate legislative proposal for the Youth Act, because it seems that the terminology in these laws does not apply to the Youth Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-13.u44	I'm not in favour of making a separate arrangement for youth right now. I would like to point out that silence that doesn't fit in with good governance doesn't bear to learn from incidents either. This applies to care, youth care and support. An exception for certain aspects of youth care, such as forced youth care and youth protection, I consider undesirable and unnecessary. I would also like to stress that the bill does not change the current privacy legislation. The bill is about something else. But I realize that I am not yet giving an adequate answer to your question. I'll come back to that later.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-13.u45	Yes. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-13.u46	Those were the questions about the scope of the law, as far as I am concerned. Then there were a lot of questions and especially a lot of concerns about the privacy of employees. I immediately acknowledge that this is a major problem. I hear that, too, and I think that we should be very concerned about that, because we are very anxious to keep all the staff in the youth care sector. They are right to be concerned about the terror, so I would almost call it 'the one that happens to them every day'. What can we do about it? Care workers must be able to be protected from online aggression. They are, but they are, of course, I fully realize that, through the GDPR. That means that it happens first and that we can only intervene afterwards. The GDPR requires a basis for the sharing of personal data. In the case of special personal data, such as sound recordings, there must also be an exception. This means that in most cases prior consent is required for the sharing of those personal data. So someone who shares that data and puts it on the Internet is obviously guilty of that. And anyone who fails to comply with the provisions on aggression, violence, defamation or slander can be prosecuted and sentenced under the Code of Criminal Law. It has just been mentioned that the JenV Ministry is currently working on a bill that regulates the criminalisation of the use of personal data for intimidating purposes, also called doxing. It often takes a while before legislative proposals are legal and can be applied in practice. I understand that, until then, we are just dealing with this in practice and that this is also difficult. 'Cause it's actually already happened, and then there's action. The following question was: does this law give more reason to assume that people can more easily disclose personnel data? I don't think that's true. We are dealing here with a broader social problem, which is not affected by this law, which is about nullifying the code of silence. We will also have to look socially at the fact that we not only apply laws and regulations properly, but also appeal to each other that this is not the way we deal with healthcare professionals.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-13.u47	That leads to an interruption by Mr Kwint.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-13.u48	Well, not so much about this part, because I think we agree on this point. The law on doxing was asked for quite specifically. We understand that it takes a long time for such a law to come into force, but the question was when it will be in the Chamber. I remember having a debate on the safety of journalists here 1.5 or 2 years ago. That was a completely different subject, but even then it was about that law. I'm just curious when we can expect that law, because I expect that we can do more with that law in hand. The Minister also points to the GDPR. I think you'll end up with the Personal Data Authority. I don't think she's gonna give Aunt Sjaan a three-way ticket, who's gonna put an angry announcement on Facebook. I don't think that's a good chance.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-13.u49	When it comes to the question of exactly when the law on doxing will come to the Chamber, I must remain guilty of the answer, but I can tell you that I urge the Minister of JenV to do so, because we are also very concerned about this. I now understand that the law is now with the Council of State for advice. You can suddenly find out information. So it's pretty quick after that incentive. As far as the GDPR is concerned, you're right. Of course, that's the tricky part. That is why we should not only look for it in the GDPR, but also see how we can have a broad debate about it in society. I think we are also having this discussion with each other. We must then make it clear that this, in my opinion, is really not acceptable and that we must deal with our caregivers differently. At the same time, I also understand that, where parents with out-of-home children are concerned, for example, where there is a situation of compulsion, a situation in which parents are frustrated or sad and feel a certain inability, they try to express their frustration in this way. But then, too, someone decides, in my opinion, that those were the words that were just said.... to cross a certain border, namely intimidating the care worker. As far as I'm concerned, we should never allow that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-13.u50	Agreed. But right now, we are allowing it. That's not because we want it and not because we disagree about how bad it is. I don't believe anything about that. But we do see that the framework for intervention has so far been inadequate. Isn't it an idea, for example, to look with caregivers themselves in what way we can do more? What can we help them with so that they feel safer when they start doing their job?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-13.u51	Of course, Mr. Kwint is quite right about that. This bill cannot in any way be used as a licence. I think we can agree on that. At least we can prosecute and condemn someone who is guilty of aggression, violence, defamation or slander, but then we must also know. I think there is also a task for the healthcare providers where these people are employed. They must be clear about the fact that, if borders are exceeded, they will be maintained and that there will be support for the staff. Despite this, the practice is very repulsive and has just happened. The Internet doesn't forget, so once it's done, it's hard to get back. It's a really difficult subject. I'd like to make myself strong for it and see what we can do about it with the field. I will certainly discuss that with the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-13.u52	Then there is an interruption by Mrs Maeijer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-13.u53	I also have a question about the effects on the healthcare professionals. It is good to hear that the Minister shares the concern of the Chamber, but I would like to ask her to go into more detail. For example, Youth Care The Netherlands specifically states that this legislative proposal increases the risk of people's data becoming public. They specifically refer to the scope of the term "incident" and give some other examples. I myself find it very difficult to put my finger on exactly where this is and whether it is. The minister just said she doesn't recognize that image. Maybe she can go a little deeper into where the crux is and why it wouldn't be.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-13.u54	In my opinion, this law doesn't change anything and the law isn't a free pass for easier data sharing. If we look at the figures of the reports from the past period, then once there was a silence clause. So on that side too, it doesn't happen that often. Do I recognise that too many intimidating acts occur because, for example, information about healthcare providers is shared online? Yes. Is that a big problem? Yes. I, and also the Secretary of State, are regularly in consultation with the domes, also in the youth care sector, because we attach great importance to seeing if we can turn that around. There is a task for the providers, but there is also a broader task in society, to engage in the debate with each other and to see how we can reverse that culture of easily sharing information. This is not only about staff in the youth care sector, but it is also happening in other sectors. One of the things we can do is, where it happens, at least not leave it unpunished and raise it. With the AGV and criminal law in hand, we can do something with each other. If we continue to stress that, it should help, shouldn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-13.u55	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-13.u56	I think those were pretty much the questions about privacy. I also answered the question about the sharing of video clips. Then there was another question about the form of silence and the Youth Act versus the Wkkgz: how are silences in this legal framework formed, especially if the Youth Act applies in the youth domain and not the Quality Act, Complaints and Disputes in the care sector? Silence clauses are drawn up in different forms. This bill stipulates that any clause, in any form whatsoever, in a contract concluded by contracting parties which restricts or deprives the right to disclose information from an incident or to provide information to a third party, is void. That provision is included identically in the Youth Act, in the Wmo and in the Wkkgz. There's no difference in that respect. Then there was the question of whether I could go into extending the Wkkgz to other forms of care. I will come back to the issue of youth protection and the Council for the Protection of Children. I think I just answered that. Now we choose to stick to this law. We do not therefore include the Council for the Protection of Children. Mrs Sahla had asked a very fair question about the information campaign. There's still a lot to win there. How is the information campaign clear to everyone that the proceedings to the courts will no longer be necessary? She rightly pointed out all the intervening parties, all the desks that made a living on this. We really need to do this in the information campaign, in which we explain that silence will be null and void in the future, that they will have no legal force and that there will be no need for a course of action. I would like to point out, however, that it is important that we take care of this, and I will also discuss this with the inspection, so that we can make it clear that, if people doubt whether this is a non-disclosure clause, they will be able to report and that the inspection will be open to their questions. Mrs. Sahla also asked how the closed terms are going. Indeed, the current legislative proposal does not apply to non-binding terms already agreed prior to the entry into force of the legislative proposal. Parties can actually do the same thing they can do now. Because they can go to court and then the judge will review that non-disclosure clause. But for that it is important for them to know for themselves that it is possible that it is a non-binding clause that will be null and void in the near future. Then I'll refer you to my answer from just now. We will call on people who have doubts about this to report so that we can assess whether it is a possible non-disclosure clause that could be brought to justice. In terms of information and communication on the legislative proposal, I shall do so again. I'll coordinate that with the IGJ, too. Mrs Sahla said that the consultative offices no longer have the opportunity to support this, but they will undoubtedly continue to do so. We must ensure that they are aware of the new legislation and that they stop doing so. I think those were the questions, Mr President. Then I come to the four amendments, which I will take with me right away.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-13.u57	Let us take stock of whether a number of questions remain before we go through the amendments. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mrs Westerveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-13.u58	I still have a rather crucial question as far as I am concerned. That is a question that several colleagues have asked. What exactly is an incident? I do not think it is very clear how the definition is now being interpreted. I mentioned in my term the example that in the forced framework everything is actually an incident. Because you intervene in people's lives, so everything is intense. What exactly is an incident?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-13.u59	Thank you for your question, Mrs Westerveld. I seem to recall that the Minister gave a definition of this, but you may not think the definition is clear enough. That's a little unclear to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-13.u60	Yes, there is also a definition in the explanatory memorandum, or at least it explains what it means, but that definition is also very broad. So I'm looking when we call something an incident and when we don't. This is, in my view, quite crucial in assessing this, even since it can be interpreted differently in the different healthcare sectors. That's what I was trying to explain here in my introduction.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-13.u61	Let's see if the Minister can help us.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-13.u62	I'd love to, but that's just really hard. Because if you look at the Wkkgz, in which we find the definition of "incident," which is a "unintended unexpected event that relates to the quality of care," then I can only specify it: there must be damage or the possibility of damage to the patient. I understand what you are saying about how complicated this is in practice, especially when it comes to forced child removals, but I have no better answer now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-13.u63	There is also a problem with the term "unintended." Because in the past, we have seen that, for example, when it comes to involuntary incarceration of clients, the effect is exactly as intended: the client was locked up. But those are the incidents that have ended up with contracts of silence. I think it would be problematic if we ended up walking out of the building with a law that does not cover what we would like. So I would nevertheless like to say that perhaps we should do it in writing or at a later date, that we are going to go into it a little more precisely. Because as I read it, there is also a problem with the wording 'unintended', because it may open a door that we do not want to leave open any of us.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-13.u64	Clear. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-13.u65	I can go along with that, and I fully agree with Mr Kwint. So I think that's something we'll take with us. At least I can promise you that. Because of course, we can never be meant to say: the incarceration was intended and with that... then we completely ignore the purpose of this law. So I can promise you that last one. With regard to the clarification of 'incident' in the text in the law, I must now remain guilty of the answer. I would like to take this point with me, to see if it could be further clarified. But I honestly suspect not, because this is also the basis of the concept of "incident" in the Wkkgz.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-13.u66	However, Madam Minister, what exactly do you say about the first one?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-13.u67	At the first, I admit that the term 'non-intended' used in the word 'incident' calls for further clarification. I'll check it out. For "intended" would really go directly against the purpose of this law. But the detailed description of 'incident', especially in relation to the children who have left home, because that is what Mrs Westerveld is all about, I really need to take a moment, I don't know now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-13.u68	That's nice. I think it is necessary to define this more precisely. It is not just about the forced framework, because we all know the institutions where young people are sometimes temporarily separated from others. Whatever else we think of that, because I don't think anyone is here for forced isolation, sometimes it happens. That can also sometimes be the intention to calm a child down. But that, of course, is very intense for that child. Just as Mr Kwint just explained, it doesn't always have to be a forced framework, it doesn't always have to be a removal. But that kind of thing happens in institutions, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-13.u69	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-13.u70	The question is to take this with us, so not only to look at the forced framework, but also to look at the broad one. Of course, this also depends on my question to which the Minister is going to answer in the second term, namely whether this law applies properly to the whole of the Youth Act. Because I really have the impression that this law is written from other laws of care, because many definitions and applications are not part of the Youth Act. And yet this law also applies to youth. So I think that... not necessarily because I want to lie in front of it, but from the point of view that legislation should be just right and clear about what is in the law, what is meant by it and ultimately how it should be interpreted in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-13.u71	I can promise you I'll take that and I'll get back to you on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-13.u72	Mr. Kwint, you also have an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-13.u73	As a result of your own question. The Minister will take it and come back to it. I'm kind of looking for what that means, because it's partly about wording in the law as well. Does that mean that you will come back to that before the votes and see if any changes are necessary? When it appears that we are all right and that there is a problem in the wordings, we may also have to change the legal text. I don't know; I find it complicated to estimate. What does it mean when you say, "I'll get back to you on that?" In the end, we must also vote on the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-13.u74	I would like to come back to that in the second term. Is that okay? Then I can describe that in more detail.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-13.u75	Clear. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-13.u76	As promised, I shall come back to the four amendments. I would also like to point out that all the amendments deal with important issues which largely relate to the laws, but require an independent balance and that it is less obvious to take them now. I'm gonna say something about that. First of all, the amendment to item No. 7: Healthcare providers should review their complaints scheme annually with the Client Board. I consider an effective and low-threshold complaint scheme to be of great importance to clients. However, I do not think that this amendment is directly related to this legislative proposal. It calls for a separate substantive consideration that is independent of the consideration of this bill. Before the summer, a written response to the evaluation of the Wkkgz will be sent to the Chamber. This will also address the functioning of the complaint law. I think it is careful to look at how the complaints system can be strengthened on the basis of this evaluation. So I think it is a good point, but I do not recommend this amendment at the moment. However, I will return to the evaluation of the Wkkgz.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-13.u77	The amendment in part No. 7 has been dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-13.u78	Then there is the amendment to item No. 8: Healthcare providers must explain their complaints to complainants orally. I agree with what I have just said about the amendment to item No. Seven have spoken. Before the summer I will give a written response to the evaluation of the Wkkgz. Here too, I think it is important to look carefully at how we can take the oral explanations to the complainants into account. At the moment, I reject the amendment, but I admit that we will take it with us.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-13.u79	The amendment in part No. 8 has been dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-13.u80	The amendment in part No. 9: The Youth Help Provider and the Certified Institution shall establish the complaint scheme in accordance with a representative client organisation to be considered and bring the scheme to the attention of young people and their parents. Following on from what I said in the previous amendments, I would like to say once again that this requires a separate substantive consideration which is independent of the consideration of this legislative proposal. There is currently a project on complaint handling and trust work within the Youth Act in connection with other laws. It's under the Secretary of State. I will give your opinion to the Secretary of State to take this into account in the project, but I would advise against this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-13.u81	That leads to a question from Mr Peters. Mr. Peters, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-13.u82	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll learn. Slowly, but it's coming. I would like to ask the Minister, through the President, whether she would also like to reflect on how many different, incredibly different ways people can complain under the Youth Act, whether it is ten or fifteen, and whether it can at least be structured in the feedback we are going to get. I know that youth protectors can sometimes spend up to two years trying to sort out what we call one incident. Maybe you could set it up, because there's a lot going on.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-13.u83	Again, I'm not going over that myself, but I'll take this with me to the Secretary of State. I can assure Mr Peters that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-13.u84	The Minister dissuade all the amendments, not because she thinks they are bad amendments, to explain it in my own language, but because she says they are asking for a separate debate. I would understand that at the moment when these very big, world-changing amendments are what we really need to talk about for hours. But we are not changing anything into existing structures. However, we ask that clients, young people should be brought with us. In one amendment, we even say: just pull the Wkkgz and the Youth Act together. Those aren't such crazy proposals at all. Mr President, I have one more point. I also have difficulty with this because this Chamber has been asking for years to improve the Youth Act. I do not charge this minister, but the predecessor of the minister of State, Minister De Jonge, already promised a number of proposals and improvements to the Youth Act. We are still waiting for that. Small improvement points are provided from this Room. This was done last week by Mr Hijink of the SP, and that is what we are doing today. But they are being discouraged, and I find that difficult, even though I do not charge this minister. I find this difficult because the Chamber has been waiting a very long time for the improvements promised for, among other things, the Youth Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-13.u85	Clear. A response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-13.u86	I hear what Mrs Westerveld is saying. It is certainly not my intention to consider it not important enough. I totally agree with her. When an evaluation of the Wkkgz arrives, I find it more careful to include it in it. I can promise you I'll take it with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-13.u87	Please continue. One more amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-13.u88	Yes, the amendment to item No. 10. This is very specific about whether the aid is being given in conjunction with the young person. I think that consultation between the young and the aid provider on the aid to be provided is very important. I am afraid I am not going to make Mrs Westerveld happy again, because unfortunately this amendment is not directly linked to the legislative proposal. I hear what she's saying. The aid must be implemented on the basis of a plan tailored to the needs of the young, but I hear and understand your question about the participation of the young self. However, I am not dealing with the Youth Act. I admit that I am consulting with the Secretary of State and that I will raise this point, but I do not recommend this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-13.u89	The amendment in part No. 10 has been dissuaded. That leads to another question from Mrs Westerveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-13.u90	That's right. The relationship I'm seeing is that we're talking about incidents and silence. One way of preventing incidents is to include young people in the complaints system and in their treatment. That's what we hear from young people all the time. If they are taken and their voices are heard, then incidents occur less often. That is why we are now tabling these amendments. I would like to ask the Minister the following. It dissuade the amendment because it is not about it, but we are not voting on this law and the amendments for two weeks. I would, of course, also like to give her a recess, but perhaps she could also use the next two weeks to talk to the Secretary of State. I realize I filed them quite late, but maybe she can see if the Ministry can make a positive assessment of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-13.u91	I can promise that we will respond by letter after consultation with the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-13.u92	Thank you. I think this has brought us to the end of the government's first term. We'll go to the second term of the Chamber, if we need it. I'll take a look around. I see the coworkers nodding. Let's go for the rounds. Mrs Westerveld on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-13.u93	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for the answers. A number of relevant questions are still open. Our reason for devoking this law is that there are a number of questions. They are, in fact, mainly about the Youth Act. I realise that this is not necessarily the domain of this minister, but that is what my questions and those of a number of other Members of Parliament were about. I hope that in her second term the Minister will be able to respond to my rather crucial question as to whether the Youth Act should be included. I think that's an important question. The second question we asked was about the scope of this law. What exactly is an incident? Does that need to be clarified even more clearly? It is good that the Minister will come back to that, because that will be very important for implementation. Mr. Chairman. I would like to make one more comment on the improvement proposals. That's a general one. I'm glad we're talking about a law today. I also said last week in the debate with the Secretary of State that it is very nice to talk about laws in this Chamber. But I sometimes wonder, in the context of the order of things, why such laws, of which I wonder what is useful and necessary of them, are being submitted and a number of other laws, which we have been waiting for for a very long time, namely those on the legal status of young people and on better cooperation to ensure that young people also get the help they need, for a very long time... I was going to say "be on a waiting list," but that's a bit of a crazy slip when we're talking about youth care, or maybe not at all. But we've been waiting a long time for that, and it's really necessary to make sure that people get the care and help they need. I would therefore also like to urge this Minister to look with open eyes at proposals from the Chamber. Because if it doesn't come from the cabinet, MPs are going to make proposals, not to overturn the whole law, but to make the law a little bit better. I hope that the cabinet will also see this and that the cabinet will look at it openly, because we want young people to have the best care and because we are also very impatient with each other. We have known for a long time that things are going wrong, and laws are not being changed.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-13.u94	Thank you, Mrs Westerveld. I would like to give the floor to Mr Kwint on behalf of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-13.u95	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I started my first term by saying that I am in favour of us stopping the silence in the care. That hasn't changed; it still has. However, a large number of questions have been asked, of which we do not yet know exactly the answer. I'd appreciate it if we could get exactly that. Not that I want all these answers so much in detail, but if we have those questions and the Minister has those questions, then the field will also have those questions if we cannot come up with those answers together. Then the judge's gonna be very complicated when he's gonna look into it. I think it is important in the context of taking our task seriously that we clarify it before we vote on it. I fully understand that this Minister is not about the Youth Act. I would like to add that it is the choice of this cabinet not to send the person responsible for this to the debate, while a substantial part of this law is also concerned with the Youth Act. So I understand that, and I think it is understandable that there can be no answers now, but I also think it is logical that proposals are now being tabled. I would also like to suggest that another ruler might be able to respond to that. Then about the content of the law. We have discussed that there are indeed concerns about the safety of aid workers. We want to make a proposal for this. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that emergency workers are increasingly being harassed outside their work;]] [[Whereas this is a reason for an ever-growing group to leave the sector while there is a shortage of staff;]] [[calls on the government, together with those working in the care sector, to adopt concrete measures to better protect aid workers from intimidation and threats than is currently the case,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Kwint and Mr De Neef.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35771-11]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-13.u96	Then there is my second point. In doing so, the Minister must say what she thinks is useful, because I understand that it also goes beyond the edges of her own portfolio, but it comes from a Member of the European Parliament: we do not often talk about the subject of silence. So we do not very often have the opportunity to give anything to the cabinet on the issue of silence. Since I have encountered quite regular examples in education in recent years, I would like to make a proposal on this. I am well aware that the answer is probably going to be: we will return to that in writing, because I have to check with the Minister of Education. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that terms of silence are also included in education;]] [[calls on the Government, in consultation with representatives of education, teachers, parents and students, or students, to take stock of the possibility of banning the imposition of a non-binding clause for education and to inform the Chamber before Princess Day,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kwint.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35771-12]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-13.u97	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-13.u98	I would have arrived at Mr Peters of the CDA group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-13.u99	I'll leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-13.u100	Sure, thank you. Then I look at Mrs Maeijer from the PVV for her second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-13.u101	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As I indicated in the first term, I think it is a good thing that something is being done on the front of the silence. It is, of course, also good to hear that the Minister will come back to a number of relevant questions. I must say, however, that it leaves me somewhat confused that the scope of the term 'incident' and things such as 'unintended' is now being looked at, while, for example, in the explanatory memorandum there was a very strong response to the input into the internet consultation of, for example, Youth Services and others. The same applies to the note on the basis of the report. I think that the timing of going back to that is a bit unfortunate. Anyway, that's how she is. Perhaps I missed it; I raised the issue of information in the first term. My group has already raised the point in the note that it would be good to point out specifically in the information campaign how and where etcetera they can report if there is still a contract of silence. The Minister at the time thought it was a good idea to take that with him. Could the Minister promise that she will actually do so? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-13.u102	Thank you for your contribution, Mrs Maeijer. I would like to give the floor to Mr De Neef on behalf of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-13.u103	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you also to the cabinet for replying. The only question I would like to ask at the moment is in line with what my predecessor just asked, namely: how do we call on people who are currently facing competition and who may be afraid to come forward with it? How do we reach these people and motivate them to report this? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-13.u104	Thank you for your contribution, Mr. Cousin. Then we come to the last speaker, Mrs Sahla, on behalf of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-13.u105	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for the answer. I have one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that care professionals are concerned that an explicit ban on non-disclosure will lead to the undesirable sharing of privacy sensitive information on (social) media;]] [[Whereas patients and clients who have experienced a failure should be able to share it without risking breach of privacy rules;]] [[calls on the government to proactively inform people about the making of wrongdoings,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Sahla, Mr De Neef, Mr Peters and Mr Ceder.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35771-13]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-13.u106	The next item is the debate on the amendment of various laws relating to non-disclosure in juvenile care, care and support, Room 35771. We have arrived at the second term of government. I'll give the Secretary of State for Long-Term Care and Sport the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-13.u107	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thanks for the suspension of just now. I propose that I respond to the very specific questions on the Youth Act before the vote by letter. I will, of course, discuss it with the Secretary of State and I will clarify it with him before the vote. On the definition of incident/non-incident and intended/unintended, I will send myself another letter before the vote, to explain that further. Yeah? Is that okay with you? There was one more question from Mrs Maeijer about information. I think I have taken that up, but I will return to the appreciation of the motions in a moment. Mrs Sahla has also tabled a motion on this. The motion in part No. 11 gets, as far as I'm concerned, judgment Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-13.u108	The motion in part No. 11: Judgment Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-13.u109	The motion in part No. 12 I will pass on to my colleague from OCW. I see you were expecting that answer. I ask him to give an appreciation of this motion by letter. The motion in part No. 13 is judged by the Chamber, with the remark that the national information from VWS will take place, among other things together with the IGJ. And if a notification arrives at the National Reporting Point Zorg, that national reporting point and the IGJ can of course inform the reporter. With that remark, I propose to give the motion judgment Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-13.u110	The motion in part No. 13: Judgment Room. I'll take a look around and see that Mr. De Cousin has one last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-13.u111	I had another question I had asked in the second term. I asked how the cabinet wants to motivate people to still mention silence if they are confronted with it or are confronted with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-13.u112	My proposal is that we should take note of this in the public campaign, including in the resolution tabled by Mrs Sahla. I'll ask the IGJ to be open to assessing possible situations of a non-disclosure clause. In this way, I hope to organize sufficient attention so that people who are in that situation can report and have that assessed.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-13.u113	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the discussions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-13.u114	The votes on motions, amendments and the legislative proposal will be held on Tuesday 10 May. I thank the people who have followed this remotely. I would like to thank the people in the Chamber, the Members of Parliament and, of course, the Minister. I'll check my list. I shall suspend the sitting until 7.15 p.m., because then we shall proceed with the next debate.
