ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u1	A festive event! The next item is the proposal for a law of the Van Kent member temporarily amending the Pension Act and the Compulsory Occupational Pension Scheme Act in connection with the introduction of a measure to, inter alia, adjust the discount rate at which pension funds are to calculate their pension liabilities, Section 35681. I would like to welcome the initiator in Vak-K. It is always nice to see MPs exercising their right of initiative. He is supported in box-K by Sebastiaan van den Hout and Bastiaan Meijer, both member of the SP group. Welcome to the House, too. Furthermore, of course, a word of welcome to the Minister for Poverty Policy, Participation and Pensions. It will act as an advisor to the Chamber in the handling of this bill. Welcome to Minister Schouten. Today we are discussing the first term of office. We'll limit ourselves to that. The continuation of this legal treatment is planned, as usual, in consultation with the initiator. The initiative has been going on for a while, so a week or less can be added.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u2	Then I would like to give the floor to the representatives of the Chamber. The first speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mr Léon de Jong of the Group of the Party for Freedom. The floor is up to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u3	Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing the important initiative proposal to temporarily increase the calculation rate to 2% in order to avoid reductions towards a new pension system. A proposal presented earlier by 50PLUS and adopted later after the election result by Mr Van Kent of the SP. I would like to express my thanks to the initiators for this bill. It's really good you guys picked this up. It is a step in the right direction. A bill that is in line with the PVV's previous proposals to adjust the rigid accounting rate. And that's very necessary. Within the current pension system, pension funds must be unnecessarily poor due to extremely rigid calculation rates, which means that not only has there been no indexing for 13 years, but there has also been a constant threat of pension reductions. Not only did pensioners lose huge pension purchasing power, according to pension experts, almost 30% of pension purchasing power. All of this with a pension capital of almost EUR 2,000 billion, totally unnecessary, antisocial and inexplicable. Therefore, for at least thirteen years, the PVV has been calling for the adjustment of the current rigid accounting rate to a real accounting rate that does more justice to earned returns. A 2% interest rate is therefore in line, especially in view of the fact that pension funds achieve multi-annual returns of around 7%. For years PVV proposals were rejected by the majority of the House of Representatives, but now more and more people are beginning to realize that the new system brings great uncertainty, the call for the preservation of the current system and the improvement where necessary becomes more and more intense. And if the coalition parties do not want to listen to us, at least listen to former pension fund managers, for example, ABP, who today in the Volkskrant are making a fervent argument in order to maintain the current pension system and increase the rate of calculation in order to restore confidence and index it again in the interests of young and old. The statement of reasons states that the proposal for a legislative initiative aims at a temporary adjustment of the calculation rate in order to avoid reductions towards the new pension system. Given the current situation, I will go into this further later, but first of all the following. Let me be clear again, just to be sure: we do not want this new pension system. In fact, we want this cabinet to remove the Future Pensions Act directly from the table. That law breaks down our pension system, demolishes solidarity and introduces a casino pension that is even more dependent on the stock exchange. Current events show how dangerous that is. If we had introduced the new pension system today, we would probably have been talking here about pension reductions, because, as we all see, things are going badly on the stock market. As pension experts also say: if things get worse on the stock market, the new system can be reduced more quickly. You can't do that. We shouldn't want that. That is why we need to do something even better than this initiative proposal, which is to ensure that we maintain and improve the current pension system where necessary by permanently adjusting the rigid calculation rate, not only temporarily but permanently, so that we can not only avoid unnecessary reductions but also index immediately and deliver on the promise of a purchasing power pension. This is the best recipe for indexing. This side also shows us today's actuality. As a result of the increase in interest rates, according to De Financieele Dagblad, some twenty pension funds have now indicated that they are going to index. How clear do you want it to be? That's good news, but that's not enough for the PVV of course. We must do everything we can to ensure that all pension funds can be indexed, so that not only pension administrators, not only the bespoke suits in pension countries, can benefit financially, but finally all those millions of pension participants that they are entitled to and are going to benefit from the enormous pension assets. Do the initiators agree with this? Do they see this initiative proposal, like the PVV, primarily as a proposal to prevent pensioners and workers from getting any more screwed up in the transition to a new system than is the case in the future? Do the initiators see that this proposal is not a justification for a new system, but a necessary intervention to prevent the damage caused by discounts? Do the initiators see that, even in view of the topicality of rising interest rates, this proposal offers an opportunity to proceed directly to indexing? I would like to receive a response to that. In the coming months we will often be discussing the new system and its consequences, but I would like to say the following to the coalition parties about the process through which this legislative initiative was also proposed. Stop your irresponsible urge to reform just to be able to reform. Do not regard the pension system as a prestige project. It puts the pension of millions of Dutch people at risk. If we really want confidence in the pension system to come back, we must also listen to the people who depend on it. In particular, we must listen to those workers who are building up their pensions. Then, as is happening now, we should not complicate the pension and push the new pension system through the Chamber unthinkingly. Then we also have to listen to all those pension experts who say it's going too fast, that they don't understand and that they're worried about the consequences. There is a great responsibility on your shoulders. That does not fit in with carelessness, as the coalition parties and the minister say. When the wrong political choice is made, that responsibility harms millions of Dutch financially, with all the social, political and financial consequences of that. If you realize that, there can only be one conclusion: open your eyes and withdraw the Future Pensions Act. It's not too late.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u4	Mrs Maatoug has an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u5	Sorry, Chairman. But it's a debate with interruptions. I was listening to my colleague's flaming speech about the importance of retirement and how important it is for everyone. I'm very curious, through you, Mr. Chairman. GroenLinks is deeply concerned about the very large group of people who do not build a pension and the risk that there will soon be a very large group of working poor, including self-employed and flex workers. I am very curious to see how the PVV colleague looks at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u6	That is certainly a legitimate concern. This slippery flexibilisation in the labour market has not only resulted in virtually no longer having a fixed contract, but all security has been lost under your feet when you are young, but also for major consequences in the building up of pensions. That's negative. A lot of young people don't build up their pensions the way you'd want them to. That is why it is also important that we stop this slippery flexibility in the labour market. We also need to get employers to return to offering fixed contracts, which also improves the way pensions are built up. We can also see this in the current tight labour market. So I share that concern. But I'm also worried about it. It's a discussion that's been going on here for years about the lie that's constantly being brought out by the people who want to break down the pension system and reform it into a new system. That's the lie that there wouldn't be a pension for young people so soon. That's just pertinently untrue. This also ensures that young people no longer have confidence in the pension. If we want the pension to have the confidence it deserves and if we want to ensure that young people are also willing to pay those pension contributions, which will guarantee their pension in the future, then we must ensure that we do not stop it with a pot of EUR 2,000 billion indexation, for example. You have to state that it's possible. That's why indexing is so important.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u7	You're continuing.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u8	Mr. Chairman. At the same time, make sure that we are able to index quickly in order to cope with huge inflation, making the fixed burdens such as the messages virtually priceless. It's really necessary. Our elders often don't make it anymore. This bill is a step in the right direction. So my appeal to the Minister is: take over. That would be great. Maybe she can give us a signal, 'cause then we'll be done here a little faster. That would give these millions of pension participants a very positive picture, and perhaps also of this minister, who is not for nothing the minister of pension policy. Mr President, I will conclude. We can, of course, support this bill. After all, we must do everything we can to protect our pensions, for our pensioners, for the workers and for future generations. This bill contributes to this. That is why we have our full support. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u9	Thank you. Then there is Mr Smals from the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u10	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, of course, I would like to thank the initiator and the support for the commitment. Respect and thanks for that. Such an initiative law is always a lot of work. I hope to do the same one day. I don't know what subject, but we'll see about that. Mr. Chairman. If you've worked a long life and saved up for your retirement, of course you want to enjoy that money saved. That is why, as far as we are concerned, the best evidence in recent years is that the new system is urgently needed. The support for the new system is broad and it has been negotiated for too long, as far as I am concerned. But there is now an agreement and a law. I therefore see this initiative proposal in the light of the future system, which is a much-needed update of the current system. The new Pension Act will ensure that pensions become more transparent. Everyone gets their own game and thus insight into their own pension. The new system is also going to make it easier for pensions to move with the economy, as Mr. De Jong said. In other words, indexing pensions can be faster and easier and yes, pensions can also be more easily reduced. But calculations show that all participants, i.e. pensioners and people who are building up now, are making progress on balance. The big difference is that we move from a system with promises to a system of investment. Mr. Chairman. There are also other advantages to the new law, for example the abolition of the average premium. This is an important step towards bringing pension systems more into line with the current labour market. Mr. Chairman. In preparing for this legal process, I looked at previous debates: the debate on the pension agreement of mid 2020 and the debate on the initiative law of former colleague Van Rooijen, where I saw many similarities with this initiative law, but also differences. What struck me most during these debates was the fear of stampling, or lowering pension rights. That dominated the debate. Now the discussion is about the missing indexing. Mr President, one is not worse or less bad than the other. Both effects affect people directly in the wallet. Of course, at that time the AOW was simply indexed, but people with supplementary pensions lack purchasing power on that part of their income. The more supplementary pension you get, the harder that counts. That brings me to the questions to the initiator about how this bill of law relates to the WTP. In the new system, funds can count on a higher projection efficiency. The applicant submits that this is a reason to increase the calculation rate as well. But there is a fundamental difference. If the projection return is misjudged, this results in a shift in time in pension benefits: first higher and then lower, or vice versa, depending on how it was misjudged. But always within the pension participant's own pot. Does the initiator agree that there is a direct shift between generations and therefore between participants in another calculation rate? As the author has undoubtedly seen, the average interest rate or discount rate currently calculated is about 1.5%. Does the initiator agree that the anticipated increase in the 30% coverage rate in the Initiative Act has now been exaggerated by the rise in interest rates? According to my own calculations, it would amount to about 10%. I'd like a reflection on that. Then there is the element of abolishing the level of policy coverage. I understand that if it persists, the effect of the law will be delayed for too long. But wasn't it true that we had correctly introduced that policy coverage rate to avoid unwanted yo-yo effects? The market is mobile and, as far as we are concerned, pension should be based on some stability. More technically, many funds have covered their interest rate risk by specific financial instruments. Sudden change in the need to cover interest rate risk can have significant effects on the financial position of funds and hence on pension benefits. Has the initiator made a calculation or at least an inventory of what impact the proposal could have on the investments of funds? Then there's a more fundamental question. I do not think I have to explain that the current system is based on certain benefits. The complainant indicates that he wishes to include uncertain returns in the calculation of future, certain benefits. How does the initiator reconcile these two elements? Isn't it wise to make money before you spend it? Anyway, if politics is going to get to the bottom of things, what is the argument for the 2%? Why not 2.5% or more? Or even less? Or, for example, the current interest rate, as we are using it now? Does the author not agree with the VVD that we should not allow this kind of considerations to be made by politics, but that we should work on objective parameters? In the note following the report...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u11	A question from Mr Hijink.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u12	Mr Smals talks about security and stability, but the only certainty and stability that pensioners have had in recent years is that they have been on the zero line for 14 years. Their pensions have not been indexed for 14 years. Is that the idea of stability and security as the VVD means when it comes to this?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u13	No, of course not. It seems clear to me that, in my view, I have also begun to say that it is very undesirable that pensions have not been indexed all these years. The reason for this lies in the system we have, based on claims and certain benefits. That's why you have to count on it this way. That is why we are in a system that has led to no indexation over the past 14 years. That is precisely why we are going to the new system.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u14	The security of the benefit has so far led to the following. You've been paying contributions for years. The pension pots are filled up to almost 2,000 billion euros. Even in the years you were in favour of the zero line, pension funds have achieved a return of 5% to 7%. Despite that, they were not allowed to index. That is the certainty that the VVD is integrating into the current pension system. My question is: what is right about that? Why should pensioners not benefit from this, given that the pots are so well-stocked and the funds make good returns? That is my question to the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u15	Yes, chairman, those retirement jars... It's a zero-sum game, to say in bad Dutch. It's one big bag of money. The accounting rules that are used are about how you divide that bag of money between all the participants in the fund: those who build up and those who get pension benefits. In the system as we have it now, this is perhaps a repetition of what I have just said. In order to determine them as objectively as possible, we use the market interest rate. That makes sense, too. So that's not in politics here. No, that's on another table; on that objective table. So as long as we're stuck in that system, we're dealing with the way we calculate that. That is why the VVD is strongly in favour of moving to the new system, reducing our dependence on the accounting rate manipulated by the ECB. But I'll get back to you on that. There are other advantages: it becomes insightful for individual participants and you go more to an individual jar. I am not even talking about all the other things that have been agreed in the pension agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u16	Very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u17	Finally, Mr President. So now the VVD itself also states that we are stuck with a manipulated market interest rate. That's a political choice. It is not what we want, but it is a choice that has been made partly under pressure from the VVD. That is what the VVD, Mr Smalls, is actually saying here. Pensioners lose their pension because you want to stick to a manipulated market rate, which has nothing to do with the actual returns that pension funds have to do with. That's your political choice. We can also change that if you decide today to support Van Kent's proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u18	I only hear arguments for going to the new system, just saying goodbye to the market interest we are talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u19	I am a little confusual as a former bond trader, because if Mr Smalls would like to count on real returns, objective returns, I say: it was his own party that fixed for box 3 five point so much percent for shares, because big assets make a lot of returns. So when I think analogly and reason, pension funds make fantastic returns. It seems to be the same in practice. So either the VVD was in the first case not quite sensible, or in the second case by wanting to keep the arithmetic interest so low. I don't get it, but I'm just a bond dealer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u20	I think there are two things that are mixed up here. We are talking about pension claims, where the fund says: I promise you will get as much money as you are x years old. We are convinced that if you want to calculate that objectively, you should not leave that to politics and you should not do a blow in the air, but that you can best calculate it through market interest rates. That's the problem that's in this system. For me, that is the argument for moving to the new system.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u21	According to Mr Smals, market interest rates are apparently manipulated by the ECB. That's a very serious accusation, because you can go to jail for abuse or markets. What exactly does he want to do about this manipulation? Manipulating prices or interest rates is an extremely bad thing in the financial world. How's the VVD gonna do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u22	That is a good question, because then I can come back to it. I am not saying in so many words that the market is being manipulated. That is what I think the initiative proposal says. I may be mistaken, but I think Mr. Van Kent may have said that once or twice. But it is no secret that the interest decisions taken by the ECB affect market interest rates. That makes sense. I don't think that's a surprise for you either. I think manipulation has a negative connotation, but the ECB's interest rate decisions certainly affect market interest rates. That's how I'm going with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u23	Mr Smalls says that we are saying goodbye to that manipulated interest. That's very good about the new system. But what he forgets to tell you is that we're also saying goodbye to security, to a purchasing power pension, to promises made to all those millions of pensioners who can't live anymore because of huge inflation and around 30% of their pension buying power have been lost. We're all gonna say goodbye to that, too. As soon as proposals are made by parties such as the SP or the PVV to adjust the interest rate, Mr Smalls says: no, we should not do that, we should not sit on that; we should not mess around with that interest rate, because that may have very serious consequences. You just said the same thing yourself. You indicated that we should not be politically involved in this calculation rate. But in 2007 it was the politics itself that decided to move from a fixed interest rate of 4% to the interest rate we currently have. My question to Mr Smals of the VVD is: is he not a bit shocked by the fact that some twenty pension funds say they can now index because interest rates have risen, and that there is no pension fund that has indicated that they are falling down?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u24	Mr De Jong's question contains a lot of questions and comments. First of all, it is not that it is becoming very uncertain in the new system and that it is only going to joy. It just isn't. All the calculations show that everyone in the new system is improving on balance and getting a little more. Why is that? It makes perfect sense: because fewer buffers are needed. So you can cash out those buffers. Anyone who is in the new system will therefore, on balance, have a little more of it than in the current system. That's one. Then the question... I've already lost what question you asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u25	I will repeat the question again, because I was a little long of dust. This has to do with the fact that the VVD has used a lot of arguments to not have to change the calculation rate. One of these arguments was always: if we change the calculation rate to 1.5% or 2%, then pension funds will fall. "That's voodoo economics," Rutte even said. He said, "We should not do that, that is a danger to our pension system." Now the interest rate has risen. Now there are 20 pension funds that say: we are going to index. Have you heard from any of those pension funds that it's falling over? Have you noticed that the pension system is suddenly falling apart? Has suddenly a huge economic misery arisen? "No, no, no" could be the only answer to that. If the only answer to all these questions is no, why are you holding it against something we're doing right now... you come up with theoretical calculations, but the only calculation I'm looking at right now is that of practice. The way in which interest rates develop gives pension funds the opportunity to index, and there is no one that falls over. What's your reaction to all this scare-making in recent years?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u26	I wasn't shocked by the fact that 20 funds could index. In fact, I was very happy about that. I think that is very good news for many pensioners and for those who are still building, absolutely. But then I will come back to the answer I gave earlier in the system we are using now, and we are stuck with a way of calculating how much we need in that pot for the future for today's pensioners, but also for future generations and young people. We're stuck with that. I agree with you that's not good. We need to get rid of that. That's why we have a new system.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u27	Mr President, I will conclude. We are stuck with it because the VVD has for thirteen years stopped us from adjusting the calculation rate in a responsible and good way. We do not at all ask for the calculation rate to be set at 7% if pension funds achieve a 7% return. We say, put it at 2%. The practice is even faster than the Van Kent bill that is now in place. The bill says 2%. At the moment, interest rates are now at 2% and pension funds can index.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u28	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u29	Mr President, I will conclude. If Mr Smalls thinks that is good news for pensioners, then there can only be one conclusion: support the Van Kent bill and try it out for at least the next five years. If you do not want to do so, it is only because you are pushing through the new pension system. This is not a question of indexing, it is a question of reforming the pension system. Well, at least be honest about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u30	The interest rate is now about 1.5%, less than 2%. It is a fundamental choice whether you think politics is about how you define those claims or whether you leave them to an independent institution. As far as I'm concerned, we don't leave that to politics. I agree with Mr De Jong that it should of course have been done much earlier. We should have concluded that whole pension agreement a long time ago. We should have changed that law before. We should have solved this problem before. The VVD never opposed that. It has also always hurt the VVD that it has taken so long. But now that it's over, we're happy about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u31	I'm going to ask a question, but before I do, I'd just like to say that subject K looks good on Mr Van Kent. It would be a shame if we didn't share that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u32	Maybe he can take it home on the weekends.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u33	Then my question. Here again I hear a flaming argument, the other way. I hear a lot of the term 'the objective calculation rate'. And I also hear from the VVD Group why it is so important to use it. That leads to a puzzle for me. The premiums are just as important in determining how much money is to be put in that pot. For calculating the premiums, we do work with expected returns, but we do not work with them to calculate the benefit. So there's a hole in it. What does the colleague of the VVD think about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u34	That is one of the elements that I believe we should also resolve in the new Pension Act. It's exactly what you're saying. This is, of course, a difficult thing to explain in the current system, just like that low rate of calculation I just had an extensive debate about with Mr. De Jong and Mr. Hijink. Those are elements that we need to fix in the new system. If we go to the new system and go to more individual jars, we'll get rid of that too. Because then it will apply: every euro you put in it comes in your own jar. And you know with me that it is technically a little more complicated, because there will also be a reserve of solidarity and so on, and so on. But basically every euro that you, me, the chairman or Mr. Van Kent put into it, comes into your, or my jar, or that of the chairman or Mr. Van Kent. Each euro shall be added to own pension assets and shall be paid upon retirement.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u35	Yes, that was an answer to a question, but not to my question. Why am I on this? I think it's good to be sharp and analytical with each other. Now we're going to: that's that. And hopefully we will also talk for a very long time with the Minister about the Future Pensions Act. But my question is really about the logic, and also about the line of argument of the colleague of the VVD. He says that he thinks it is very important that we use what the VVD then calls "the objective calculation rate." He says that the calculation rate has been set and you should not judge politically. My question is: is it not strange that we do not use the same logic in the premiums? With these premiums, you actually do exactly the same thing, namely determining how much you have to put in and how much you have to push through time. So if we follow the speech of the VVD colleague, would it not be logical to say: then should you also use that objective calculation rate when determining the premium? I don't hear my colleague say that. I'm gonna ask this separately from my own appreciation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u36	No, I didn't. I'll go along with it in so far as I can tell it's crazy and there's some weird stuff in there. By the way, there are many other elements in the current system that are weird. I can call you many more things. I can give you many more interruptions about crazy things in the current system. I can reflect on that. But these are all reasons for me to say: yes, and that is why we must go to the new system. So we can continue to talk about this endlessly, but I think we should go to the new system. Another element is the fact that people are getting older. In retirement language, it's called the longevity risk. I think that's an idiotic term, because it's fantastic that people get older. But that's another thing. In the young years of today's retired, who was born a long time ago and built up a pension, life expectancy was not as high as it is today. The fact that people are getting older is also a problem in the system that we have to deal with. To solve that, money has to be pushed between generations. And when we're in the new system, everyone has their own game and everyone saves for themselves. This will make it clear and transparent.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u37	Short, Mrs Maatoug.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u38	Finally, Mr President. There are a lot of dimensions and elements in pensions that we can talk about. Hopefully we're going to hit a lot of these topics today. But I'm on it anyway, because politics matters too. We just heard a flaming argument about the objective calculation rate. And the honest picture that I have here is that I hope that I am wrong, that we hardly ever hear that flaming argument when it comes to premiums. A different argument is then used, for example because one wants to reduce the burden on employers or because for other reasons one does not really want that premium to increase. Then there are other arguments. I can very much disagree with arguments, Mr President, I realize that this is not a short one, but I think it is good to be very pure in that consistency of argument and to be honest about it, even if we disagree with logic.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u39	You're continuing.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u40	I have two more questions. In the note following the report, the initiator of the VVD's questions indicates that the initiative law does not affect the right of ownership. However, on 26 April last, the judge agreed with PMT. Does the initiator know this judgment and did the judge not say that increasing the discount rate would actually undermine the property rights of younger and future generations? Can the initiator reflect on the verdict in relation to this initiative law? Mr. Chairman. Finally, the 2%. The initiator states that current market interest rates are manipulated by the ECB. He immediately stated that the inflation target of the same ECB should therefore be taken into account. Can the initiator explain why the market interest rate, which would be manipulated by the ECB, would not be reliable, whereas the inflation target, which is, in any case, set by the ECB, would be reliable? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u41	Thank you. The next speaker is Mr Ephraim of the Van Haga Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u42	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to congratulate the author of the temporary amendment to the Pension Act, Mr Van Kent, and actually also former MP Mrs Van Brenk of 50PLUS, who initially wrote the proposal, if my information is correct. The aim of the initiative law to improve the financial situation and thus the lives of many elderly people fully supports BVNL. The fact that people who have worked hard their lives and contributed to our social system can only survive with difficulty cannot be explained. In the name of the Ministry, poverty and pensions are not mentioned in one breath for nothing. BVNL is therefore sympathetic to the initiative legislative proposal but still has some questions for the author. This initiative law can be seen as a temporary law pending the transition to the introduction and effectuation of the new Pension Act, which is expected to be in 2027 if the law makes it at all. The first question I have for the petitioner is: can the petitioner clarify the consequences of adopting this temporary amendment to the Pension Act, for example for young people? The adoption of this initiative law would set the calculation rate for pension funds at 2%. The current interest rate is about 1%, so that would be a full percentage point. There's a lot of consequences. How does the author view this? And what effect does high inflation possibly have on the proposal? Does the indexing have to go up further? It could also be that interest rates are naturally relatively high above 2%. Then how does the author view that? Mr Smalls said it was 1.5%, but we know the financial markets and it is only 4.30 p.m., so who knows what will happen today? Mr. Chairman. In the Decision on future pensions, pension funds may index from a coverage rate of 105. Any space up there can also be used. What does the applicant think of the proposed decision? Isn't that decision more attractive than what the author is laying down? Perhaps the petitioner intends to do so and should replace the other laws. I'd like a reaction to that. The applicant intends to temporarily terminate the policy coverage rate and only calculate the current coverage rate. In the Minister's proposal, both levels of coverage should now be 105. Does the applicant not fear a major fluctuation in the pension system if the current coverage rate is used instead of the policy coverage rate? Finally, Mr President. How does the proposer look at catching up? After all, there has been no indexing for years, in some cases thirteen years. The temporary law monitors future indexation but does not allow indexing to be overtaken. In the Decision future pensions are not allowed catch-up indexing. I would like to hear whether and how this is dealt with in the petitioner's transitional law. Mr President, so far. I look forward to the reply from the author.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u43	Thank you. Then Mrs Van Beuker of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u44	Mr. Chairman. Firstly, I would like to thank the initiator, the previous initiator, Mrs Van Brenk, and the support for the initiative. It is nice when a Member of Parliament makes use of the opportunity to submit an initiative. I think we would all like pension funds to be able to increase pensions. Recent figures show that more than 20 funds that is one out of five funds in 2022 have an index of more than 3%. With three large funds, that is even more than 5%. Pensions are already going up. In reply to my predecessor's questions on this dossier, Mr Van Kent also states that the proposal is a temporary measure as long as the ECB is doing monetary expansion. It's coming to an end. I don't have to tell you about inflation. Moreover, the Future Pensions Act ensures higher pensions faster. Of course, I must also mention that the new law will also ensure a faster reduction in pensions. That saves you another interruption. The aim is to make it easier for the pension to move with the economy. That is why I am considering the complexity of the system, I am asking for the opinion of the Council of State and the relationship of this proposal with the Future Pensions Act. The pension system is complex, but this bill only looks at the money that pension funds have in cash and wants to spend it more quickly on pensioners. But a fund doesn't just have cash in it. It also has obligations, for which money will be needed later. Mr Van Kent pretends that all this is not so bad and that the pension funds are really going to achieve returns in the coming years, so that the pensions of the next generation can also be paid. But what is actually happening is that pension funds now count themselves rich and shift the problem to young people and future generations. That is why I am asking how Mr Van Kent looks at the liabilities of pension funds in the future. Does he agree with me that the bill can ensure that pension funds do not have enough money to meet these obligations?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u45	There is a question from Mr De Jong.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u46	Does the honourable Member consider that the pension funds which have now indicated that they are going to index are being irresponsible?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u47	No, absolutely not. Mr De Jong asks whether I think that pension funds are being irresponsible. We've agreed on a level of coverage. When pension funds meet this level of cover, they have enough cash to index pensions at that time. I do not quite understand where Mr De Jong's question, whether that would be irresponsible, comes from, because that is what we have agreed in the current law.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u48	I would advise you to read back the text of D66 and the other coalition parties in the Acts, because they indicated every time: if we go now, in the current system, to a situation where pension funds can start indexing, for example if the calculation rate is at 2%, then that would be very irresponsible to future generations and then we give pension funds the room to calculate themselves richer than they are. That's what you just said. There are now more than 20 pension funds that indicate that they are going to index and are going to do so on the basis of rising interest rates. At the same time, we see the situation on the stock market. Again, my question: if D66 insists for years that it is very irresponsible to index on the basis of a 2% interest rate, are the pension funds irresponsible now that the figure is close to 2%? If that is not the case, it is at least in favour of adopting or supporting Mr Van Kent's bill and perhaps other proposals which may or may not temporarily favour an increase in the rate of calculation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u49	I would like to begin with Mr De Jong's last question, because I think that is where the crux lies. You're talking about raising the accounting rate. We've agreed it's 2%. There have been proposals to increase it, because it would be more in line with current interest rates. That's what I've always been against. You can read that back in the Acts. Mind if I finish my story? You asked me a question, so I'm trying to answer it. We agreed to look at the policy coverage of a pension fund. We made a deal with each other that there can be indexed if that percentage is 105%. That was also a proposal that we discussed here in the Chamber with each other. This is now the case with a number of funds. They're well above the 105%. We also have an agreement with each other that if the Future Pensions Act is through the Chamber soon, even more funds can be indexed. So I don't understand why you're trying to put words in my mouth like I don't like it all and think it's irresponsible. I'm really looking at the coverage of pension funds. If they make the assessment that they can start indexing, I am very happy about that, just as you like it. This means that pensioners, my colleague Mr Smals, said that even this year, even though they may already be receiving a higher pension, they will be receiving a higher pension.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u50	The reason I am asking is that I have been doing this type of debate for about ten years. I have been asking the microphone for ten years to increase the rate of calculation. Now we have a unique situation in which the stock market is failing and interest rates are rising. This means, on paper, that, while there is a situation on the stock market that causes you to deal with very different obligations and revenues, we suddenly see that the obligations change. That is exactly the argument that D66 and the other parties put forward each time. Today we have that situation, and you say you're happy to be there. Me too. I'm glad D66 is happy about that, too. But it does undermine the entire story of D66 in recent years. Today's current situation shows that pension funds can count on different rates of interest, that can increase pensions, and that at the same time we can have a situation in which there will be less income. Look at the stock exchange and the pension funds are still not in danger. In other words, your own story of the past few years is limping today. So I understand that you do not want to understand, but it is not to the advantage of all those pensioners and future generations who have to look at this. If you believe that what is happening today is right, then there can be no other conclusion than that we must indeed take a critical look at the way pension funds are now to calculate and ensure that they are given the space to look at these calculations more on a real basis. That is precisely the argument you used today to support that. Do you at least agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u51	I am pleased to discuss this with Mr De Jong, because I have been a Member of Parliament for two years and you have been debating it for ten years. It is sometimes nice to hear what has come through earlier debates. I therefore very much appreciate the fact that Mr De Jong is pointing this out to me. I think it is very important that the calculation rate should be abolished. We agree on that. That is why I am happy with the Future Pensions Act, because we are going to say goodbye to the accounting rate. I believe that this is the debate that has been going on in this Chamber over the last few years. A few years ago, for example, there was also a choice not to cut pensions at that time. I do not hear you say that now, but that was also a choice made by a predecessor at the time. You are always talking about not being indexed, but if we had been cut short at the time, perhaps we could have had another conversation with each other today. I can't hear you saying that right now. In anticipation of the law that was to come, it was expressly chosen to refrain from cutting that short. I think that's just a fine step that was taken at the time. I'd like to talk to you about that. What we differ on is the following. The calculation rate is in the current pension system. Proposals have been made to delete the interest rate, but to maintain the system. Of this D66 has always said: no, we think it is extremely important that a new pension system should be introduced, and in that we delete the calculation rate. I think that's been a consistent story of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u52	I kind of fell over the words of Mrs Van Beuker when she said: we have to be careful that pension funds are not going to count on money. Is the opposite not exactly true, namely that pension funds have to rely on the extremely low interest rates they have to use to determine the value of their assets? That is, of course, what is actually going on. There is now 1% or 1.5%, while their actual return is five to seven times higher. Who is talking about 'counting richly' when the funds are forced to count unnecessarily poor because of the rules that have been in force for a long time? Isn't that what's actually going on?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u53	I once had an experience with the SP in which I thought I said something else and then got a movie back. What I've got here and what I've been trying to say is that retired people now count themselves rich. I think that is a small difference: pensioners or pension funds. I would like to emphasise that here. I think it is very important that we, as a Chamber, are here today to say that we are there for all generations, not just for pensioners. I hope pensioners aren't gonna get rich. It is not that Mr Van Kent's proposal is very easy to index. I find that difficult and I have just made that very clear. That's why I set my argument up like this. You then made the bridge to the funds and talked about percentages. I don't think I said that way either.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u54	But this doesn't make it any better. There is no pensioner in our country who is counting on the empire, not even with Van Kent's proposal here today. The pensioners who are following this debate today see that, under the leadership of D66, VVD and other parties, they have not had any indexing and have been on the zero line for fourteen years. So who's talking about math? No one at all. The only thing that this proposal does is to prevent, in the transitional period, a new law, if it comes into effect, from being either reduced or indexed for years because of the artificially low interest rates to be used. That's all this law does. It's super modest! It's actually a very civilized proposal. I don't understand why D66 can't say that this is just very sensible to do. Because these yields are high enough for pension funds; this indexing can just happen. In fact, you yourself anticipate the new law, in which you say it has to go a bit that way. So what's the problem with just embracing this law?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u55	I feel a little challenged by the SP to start responding to Mr Van Kent's initiative law. I have a few more questions. I think it's important to get those questions answered first. You state that there has never been indexed for the past 14 years. Indeed, there have been pension funds that have not been able to index because of the accounting rate used. There are also funds that have been able to index. No... yes, chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u56	Do not respond to what is being said in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u57	But it's hard when people react outside the microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u58	Yeah, but you shouldn't listen to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u59	I'll do my best.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u60	I'll call the court to silence.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u61	You don't have to. I'll try not to pay attention. The nice thing is that the answer to your question has now been lost because I was distracted. I am curious to hear the answers to the questions I am about to ask. I am very interested in initiatives; that is how I started my input, but there were some questions from the Council of State and I am just curious why they have not been taken over.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u62	Fine, you're continuing.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u63	Let's see where I left off. I have just said in an interruption that the Council of State indicates that there is already a transition financial review framework, the transition ftk, which is better suited to the current and also the new pension system, because it also has conditions and limitations. As a result, for example, it only applies to funds that wish to enter. In short, the transition ftk contains substantive standards that are not included in this initiative law. Therefore, the Council of State recommends that the proposal should be supplemented by substantive criteria, if it were necessary to propose derogations. According to D66, it is not necessary to propose deviations. Why does the initiator choose 2% without real justification and without processing the opinion of the Council of State, I ask the initiator? Pension funds already have the task of looking closely at intergenerational equality in boarding, but our view is that soil interest certainly does not help. The initiators argued that the Minister of Social Affairs changed the rules during the game by adjusting the criteria for discount and indexation, but those adjustments had a good reason: we want to avoid large redistributions. Can the initiator explain why he now wants to apply redistribution in the eyes of the port? For the Council of State also indicates that the transition ftk is better for the transition from the current to the new system. The initiator wants to avoid social unrest, but he does so by distributing money from young people and distributing it to pensioners. Why does the initiator stay with this contrast between young and old and does the initiator not want to work on a better pension for everyone? Mr. Chairman. Future generations can be more difficult or not yet heard from. That's why I stand up for them. At the same time, I want to represent all the target groups, participants, pensioners and young people, because I too am not blind to pensioners who have not seen any indexing for years. That is why I hope that we will soon be able to talk about the new law to individualise the pension pots and look at the return and investment rather than the promise about the benefit. Can I continue? Okay. This law also includes the transition ftk. That is exactly the solution that Mr Van Kent is advocating, but fair and realistic. Because, Mr President, thanks to the promises that have been made for years, I understand that pensioners are disappointed. Unfortunately, these promises were made when there were far fewer elderly people and many more workers, life expectancy was still about ten years lower and interest rates were significantly higher. The world has changed, but for years the pension system has not changed. The new Future Pensions Act, and not this initiative law, brings the pension system to the present. That's why it's time to tell the honest story. For many years, pensioners have paid decent pension contributions for a pension that they are expected to use for much less time. I, too, want to index pensions now that the law is coming, but only if funds go to the new system. I want to avoid emptying the jars of young people and future generations, but that is what I believe is being proposed with this initiative. Mr. Chairman. I look forward to Mr Van Kent's response to our questions and to the way he looks at solidarity between generations, and I wonder if his initiative also takes account of all generations. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u64	There is a question from Mr Hijink.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u65	I really object to the way D66 is knocking up the gap between old and young. Is Mrs Van Beuker aware that if you freeze pensions, put them on the zero line, even young people, 20s and 30s, who are now working and building pensions, will soon receive a lower pension, and that they will also suffer enormously from this rate of calculation, which the VVD has just said is a manipulated interest rate? Yeah, you're laughing at it, Mr. Smalls, but you brought up manipulated interest yourself. I noticed it as well, but that is of course what is actually going on. That interest rate is artificially kept low. This has a huge impact on people who are now old and are receiving their pensions, but that also has a huge impact on young people who are building up their pensions and who will soon see when they retire that they will get much less than they could have had if we had not had these weird rules. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u66	I am well aware that there is a link between what participants are putting in at the moment, so between people who pay to their pensions through their employers, and pensioners, as Mr Hijink describes here. I realise that very well, and that is also an important point. I only think that if we start indexing pensions right now, that means that there will be less money left in the funds. That's the first thing. The second thing is, there's just a link. When pensions are rising, this also means a difference in what is being invested for the participants. This means that I know that employers will be compensated in a different way. So I see these communicating vessels, but I think it's important that what you spend from a fund doesn't automatically go back in. I would like to emphasise this here. You just mentioned a rift. I know I like to stand up for young people, because that's also a group you barely hear. The pensioners are sending us a lot of messages. This does not even apply to all pensioners, but we are getting reports from pensioners and we are not getting them from young people. I think it is important to continue to emphasise their perspective, especially here in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u67	As a younger person, I'd be pretty sad about D66's input. If you have to accept that for 40 years the retirement you have... let's say you're in your early 30s. You started working at the age of 20, and you haven't seen an index of your retirement structure in 12 years. I wouldn't be so happy about that at all, especially if it was caused by an artificial procedure, which is not necessary at all. Let us be for a while; the pension contributions that are deposited are always higher than what actually goes on every year. Look at the returns of the pension funds. Look, Mrs Van Beuker would be right if pension funds were to spend crazy money on pensioners, say 'after us the flood' and take no account of what young people will have to keep, but that is not at all the issue. That's not the issue at all. They make returns from 5% to 7%. The indexation can and will remain enough, even for future generations. Look at the structure of the premiums that are now available and at the returns, which you can expect in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u68	I speak to young people who are happy with the input I have just made and who also ask me to make their voices heard. I'm just curious about the reaction of the initiator and the minister. I'll hear what you're saying, but we disagree.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u69	Just two things. Let's get something straight. The honourable Member indicated at the beginning that proposals would have been made by the SP, the PVV and others to abolish the interest rate. That's not true. We have never made proposals to abolish the interest rate. That would also be totally irresponsible. So it's crazy to put that forward as an argument. We have said: adjust the interest rate. It used to be 4%, but something's changed. In the end, we have said: take a real interest rate, which does justice to the yields achieved; you could put it at 2% safe. So I'd like to make that right. I hope that Mrs Van Beuker will be able to bring that forward. The second point concerns young people. Young people have parents, grandparents and grandmothers. And I can't imagine that there's a younger person who says: my grandfather and grandma have paid 40 years or more of pension contributions, and I'm fine with the fact that they haven't been indexed for 14 years. I can't imagine. Nor can I imagine that young people really believe that, at the age of 21, they have earned that pension fund of EUR 2,000 billion in their work. I don't think so. Those were the parents and the grandpas and grandmothers. Would it not therefore be in the interests of young people to have the honest story told? We must say to the young people: we must ensure that the pension system is future-proof again, making it more attractive for you too, and we will do so by showing that it has an effect when you pay the premium, and that it is indexed whenever you can. If that is the case, could Mrs Van Beuker not consider using the 2% interest rate for a short period of five years at least? This is in favour of the elderly, i.e. the father, mother, grandfather and grandmother of the young, and in favour of the young themselves, who regain confidence in the pension system.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u70	Thank you for the two questions put by Mr De Jong. With regard to the first question, I may have said it wrong; I apologize for that. In fact, you did not ask for the interest rate to be abolished, but for it to be adjusted. We have indeed discussed this in detail in this Chamber. We didn't think so. But you are absolutely right: you did not ask for the interest rate to be abolished. I'm sorry about that. At that time I thought I would make the bridge to the new law, which will, of course, be the subject of this debate. Then you say: don't you think there are young people who like it when their parents, grandparents and grandmothers get enough pension? Yes, I do. I think it's very important that everyone in the Netherlands has enough power or how do you say that? Oh, enough pension to make a living. I very much agree with you. Your follow-up question was whether I think it's right that you get back what you put in. I think that is precisely the problem of the current Pension Act. We've put in premiums with each other. Older people have made contributions and also built up their own pension. Right now, they're getting benefits for that. That is a benefit that is not indexed, but that is what we agreed on. What I like about the new law is that the game will become much more individual, so that both the elderly, the grandpa and grandma, the father and mother and the son and daughter, will build their own pot. Depending on how much premium they deposit, they know at the end of the ride, when they reach retirement age, what that jar will mean. I like that point of the new law.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u71	I want short questions and short answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u72	We don't know what those jars look like. We can bring it all out nicely, but the elderly don't know how much is in their jar. We don't know that about young people either. It sounds marketingly fantastic, but it's totally a wash nose, because we don't know what it looks like. We don't know how many tens of billions the transition will cost. We do know today's reality. That reality is that although D66, VVD, CDA and ChristenUnion have for years stopped adjusting the interest rate, today we see that it can be riskless, if we put it at 2%. Do you recognize that you have been wrong over the past few years when we see today's reality? If so, make sure that we can do so in the interests of young people and the elderly. Don't let those two generations have conflicts with each other. Fix it for them. Just accept the initiative bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u73	Thank you. Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u74	It is a clear and yet somewhat more extensive question. I'll give you a brief answer. I am always open to initiatives being taken. Looking back at what has happened in the Chamber over the past few years is fine, but we're not going to turn it back anyway. I have my doubts about agreeing to this initiative now, in anticipation of a law that will soon be dealt with in the Chamber. I am therefore curious to hear the answers of the initiator. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u75	Clear, thank you very much. Then Mrs Van... Mrs Palland from the CDA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u76	Thank you, Mr President. It is indeed Palland and not Van Palland. I'm afraid I'm from the poor branch, but you don't have to feel sorry for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u77	We're gonna take the hat around later.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u78	So you don't have to. Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank Mr Van Kent and Mrs Van Brenn. It will undoubtedly follow this debate. I would like to thank them for submitting the initiative proposal and for answering the questions in the written round. Mr. Chairman. We share the aim of the initiator to avoid discounts as much as possible during the period of entry. We believe it is important that the interests of all participants, including pensioners, are well protected in a collective transition and that this is done in a balanced way. Therefore, discounts should be avoided as far as possible during the transition period. To fall into the house: we do have some doubts about the usefulness and necessity of this bill. The initiator mentions two clear objectives of this bill, namely the prevention of discounts during the period of entry and the entry into service with a high discount rate. It is stated that the legislative proposal does not explicitly aim to index further or to allow catching-up indexing to take place during that period. Mr. Chairman. As indicated, we share the goal of not cutting unnecessarily. The government has also previously agreed that the aim is to avoid these reductions. The Law on Future Pensions, which has now been sent to the Chamber, provides for a transition framework and a different financial review framework during the transition period. This transition ftk allows, in the run-up to entry into the current system, relaxation, such as the possibility to deviate from the requirements to the minimum required own funds to avoid unnecessary shortening. From this point of view, the minimum level of coverage has been reduced to 90%. My question is therefore whether this measure, together with the proposal for an initiative, is not double-crossed. In other words, should this limit be raised again if the initiative proposal were to be adopted? If so, what should be the limit? How does the initiator see the relationship between this bill and the Future Pensions Act? Is his proposal still necessary or has he considered involving his idea and proposal in the treatment of the Future Pensions Act, because we are still going to have a detailed discussion about this? Mr. Chairman. A number of questions from the written round have not been answered or have been partially answered. For example, in the explanatory memorandum, the initiator states that, given the yields resulting from the falling interest rate, he will not ask for a floor rate equal to the fixed interest rate used until 2007. The bill has chosen the route of an AMvB, which means that it is up to the government to shape a decision. In the reply and the explanations we see a bottom of 2%, but we do not see it in the legislative text. The CDA would like to know from the initiator what exactly he asks the government and what interpretation of the AMvB he sees for himself. The Council of State is also critical of the legislative proposal and advises to include substantive standards; I heard Mrs Van Beuker on this too. Because there are now no guarantees to ensure that the discount rate chosen or to be chosen is balanced and does not account for a certain generation. Why does the author not respond in substance to that comment from the Council of State? Mr. Chairman. Following the Council of State, the CDA still has questions about the justification to deviate from the financial transition framework for funds that will not enter. The initiator mentions social unrest as a reason, but is that a good measure of justice? Why does the initiator consider it justified, given the objective of the legislative proposal, which is rather explicitly linked to the period of entry, to increase the interest rate if there is no entry? And what does that mean for the period after that transitional period? Because the legislative proposal may threaten further increases in discounts for funds that have not been used. How exactly are we supposed to see that? Finally, Mr President. My group is not convinced of the usefulness and necessity of this bill. We believe it is important that the collective transition protects the interests of all participants, including young people and pensioners. Proposals for this are also included in the WTP. We are certainly going to talk about this in detail. As far as we are concerned, it is not balanced to highlight that one point of the discount rate. Of course, we hear and understand the concerns of the senior citizens about not being indexed in recent years. Partly for this reason, under the leadership of the PvdA and the CU, the CDA has tabled a motion to index earlier, precisely in the transitional phase mentioned by the initiator, ahead of the Wtp, from a policy coverage rate of 105%. We also see that many funds intend to do so and work towards it, also for this year. And that's good. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u79	Thank you. A question from Mrs Maatoug.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u80	In preparation for the debate, I thought: I'm going to see what we all think of retirement. Compliments to all colleagues for the beautiful pieces on the website about pension. My eye was on a quote from a piece on the CDA website: "The pension system remains a national responsibility and is implemented at low cost." We've talked about these costs before. I'm curious. At present, the second pillar pension costs 9 billion, while the implementation of the AOW costs 130 million. I think that's a big hole. So I don't think that's "low cost." I am very curious to see how the CDA Group views this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u81	A fine annex point, I would like to say. I think that we are going to speak even more strongly about this in the debate on the new legislative proposal. Of course, they're not quite comparable. The AOW is simply linked to the data known to the government. Everyone, regardless of your income, gets what you've earned, what funds you're in and your personal circumstances. It's just there for anyone who reaches a certain age. This can then be automatically transferred, so that is a bit simpler than calculating pensions. Apart from that, the issue of low costs is very important to us. I think that we will also discuss this with each other during the WTP treatment. It is important for us that we continue to focus on these low costs. Because if we can make implementation as efficient as possible, more money can be paid out to all those who are building up pensions, both to the participants and to pensioners.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u82	Thank you. Then we will listen to Mrs Maatoug from the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u83	Mr. Chairman. Also from the GroenLinksgroep compliments and appreciation for colleague Van Kent and former member Van Brenk. We thank them for this initiative proposal. As my fellow Members have said, an initiative law is, in fact, always valid, especially in the pension debate, that it is not easy. It is important that we in the Chamber continue to think about what we do want and not just about what we do not want. Therefore, thanks, appreciation and compliments for the people in trade-K, as well as for the support. Mr. Chairman. To determine what we want, we first need a good problem analysis. I do not quite follow the problem analysis of the author. Although it may be up to the reader to read through the explanatory memorandum, the impression may arise that this law has solved the pension problem. The Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance believes that this is not the case. Personally, I also think that we are wrong about the old age provision. I think it is very important that we feed it and I am also glad that we have another chance today. Unfortunately, I believe that this law contributes to the wrong conduct of the debate, because it sometimes seems as if everyone is primarily concerned with securing part of the pension assets for themselves, or for the group or generation to which they belong. On the one hand, you'll hear that there's nothing for young people. On the other hand, the elderly are being robbed. The discussion is very quickly narrowed to: who gets what? I would like to talk so much about the calculation rate, but I do not think it is the key issue. The key problem is that we cannot agree on how to organise solidarity and collectivity with each other. We don't have faith in that collectivity anymore. I believe that by talking only about the interest rate, we are further undermining that confidence. However, I agree with the author of this proposal that the current situation is not ideal, to put it mildly. Many pensioners have been waiting for indexation for years, while the pension jars are full. At the same time, I see that many young people lose faith in our pension system at all. They wonder: is there anything for me later? Mr. Chairman. The strength of our pension system is precisely the collectivity: working together for a good income for old age. Together, it's better than alone. It is precisely because of this collectivity that there are prosperity gains. Just that part together doesn't seem to work right now. I am very concerned about that. Are we still able to organize something like this collectively? Are we still able to make agreements together on, for example, accounting rules? That is the question I am very concerned about and I would also like to ask the author of this proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u84	A question from Mr De Jong.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u85	I get it when kids say, "What about the future?" This is, of course, largely due to the fact that they see that the EUR 2000 billion in pension assets, to which they have almost not contributed, does not go to the pensioners who deserve it. You've been working and paying pension contributions for years, but you don't get an index while there's up to 2,000 billion euros in pension assets. That interest rate could partly solve that. That is also why the parties say: adapt them, so that young people can see that it makes sense to continue paying pension contributions and to increase confidence in the pension system. Do you understand that reasoning?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u86	I understand the reasoning, which you also clearly set out in this interruption. I will go into the calculation rate in a moment, but as far as GroenLinks is concerned, the power of social security and certainly the pension system that you save together from a compulsory obligation is the strength of social security. Then there are prosperity gains. If you all save individually, you have much less and also less to distribute. We are now having a discussion about that one rule of calculation, but I started by observing that it is the question whether we are still able to do from the point of view of collectivity, from all these different interests, what enriches us all.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u87	I understand. But there's been spared. People have been spared by people who have worked for years. The spare part has not been indexed for 14 years. People haven't been getting what they're entitled to for 14 years. It would be great if we could give young people and the elderly the same message. Let's remove the obstacles that stand in the way of getting what's coming to you. The biggest obstacle in the past 14 years has been the way in which we have unnecessarily poor pension funds. Would it not be in the best interest, including for young people, to come up with proposals to ensure that such elements are no longer present? Could we not do that on the basis of this proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u88	The question was: do I follow the reasoning? Yeah, I'm on it. But I wanted to make the next point. The moment we narrow the discussion down to the one rule of calculation we are talking about, the rate of calculation, we are failing the discussion. I think that over the past 14 or 15 years we have failed to make agreements together, which, for example, did not succeed in reaching an agreement on the accounting rate. Let me be critical: it made us think that someone else is gonna take care of the pension for us, that someone else is gonna negotiate it for us, while young people aren't gonna join a union. That's what I'm talking about. If you don't guarantee collectivity together, you'll all be poorer. And then there's the talk about the distribution. That's my reflection. I wonder what the author will say.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u89	You're continuing.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u90	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. What this discussion is about as far as I am concerned is division, solidarity and trust in each other. After all, we all know that the interest rate is the interest rate with which we price the liabilities of pension funds. Adjustment of interest rates results in redistribution. And that means that every choice for an interest rate is also a choice for a certain distribution between young and old. I therefore share with the applicant that the current risk-free interest rate is not neutral or objective. There are political choices behind that. The choice of an interest rate should therefore be well substantiated. Like the SP, GroenLinks thinks that the current calculation rate does not fit in well with the practice. But it is not yet clear to me why the proposed 2% is the right choice. Does this 2% ensure an optimal distribution between young and old and provide the right buffer size? I would like to hear a further explanation from the initiator. Mr. Chairman. The bill we are discussing today has been put forward as a solution to the threat of pension reductions. My question is therefore: does the SP think that the current system works well after adjusting the interest rate? Are we done once this law is passed? Or are there any more problems? The use of the accounting rate to price liabilities is inherent in a funded pension system, such as the Dutch. You can't escape the fact that you have to go through time with money. Then you get the question: how do we do that? That is also the question I would like to put to the authors. Mr. Chairman. The introduction of a soil rate does not change the fact that the current system remains sensitive to changes in market interest rates and that there can be redistribution between generations without any explicit decision being taken. Does Mr Van Kent agree with me that this is the result of capital cover? How does the author intend to deal with this problem in the future, I ask through the President. I have already indicated that I am wondering whether more cover and less cover is perhaps something that we should consider. Mr Van Kent said that he did not see anything in that committee debate. My question is: does Mr Van Kent still believe that, despite the fact that we have to use an interest rate with a funded system in order to appreciate the future pension benefits? What does the depositor of the nominal guarantee that pension funds give now think? Is that guarantee also possible if we deviate from the risk-free interest rate? Mr. Chairman. I also refer to the discussion on pay-as-you-go and capital cover, because I want to talk about solidarity. That's what I've done so far. Solidarity is an important element in our pension system. I think the SP thinks that's important, too. But through our capital coverage system we save a lot in the Netherlands. We now have a very high surplus on our current account. This is not in solidarity with other countries which may be affected by unemployment. Every economist knows that not every country can have such a surplus on the current account. So not every country can save as much for pensions as we do. Does the author agree with me that this is really not a matter of solidarity and that change might be a better idea? Mr. Chairman. I referred earlier to the problem analysis behind this bill and asked whether the complainant considered that our pension system was finished after the proposed amendment. It will be clear by now that I still see a lot of problems. I've already talked extensively about the lack of trust. I would also like to mention the fact that a large group of people does not build up a pension at all or very little. So yes, the fact that many people's pensions have not been indexed for a long time is a problem, but it is not the only problem, and as far as GroenLinks is concerned, it is not the biggest problem. My question to Mr Van Kent is whether he agrees with me that these problems require a solution other than simply adjusting the interest rate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u91	Thank you. Then Mr Hijink of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u92	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Let me begin by thanking the initiators for all the time and commitment they have already made. I would, of course, like to thank Mrs Van Brenk, who once presented the proposal, my colleague Bart van Kent and, of course, the support for Sebastian van den Hout, who is behind the pole... and Bastiaan Meijer. Thank you very much for all your efforts. Mr. Chairman. In silence, a major pension robbery is taking place in our country. We have a pension system that many Dutch people have been proud of for years, but which is now unable to give older people the pension that their future, while an unprecedented amount of money has been saved together in our pension pots. If you work for an employer, you're paid in return for your labor. With a bit of luck, and with the union's struggle, you might also have a collective agreement. If your salary is still high enough and there is a pension scheme in your sector or in your company, you will build up a supplementary pension, the so-called second pillar pension. You put in a piece and your employer has to put in a piece. That money is then invested again, so that hopefully at the end of your working life you can enjoy your old age financially. Mr. Chairman. So far the theory, because in practice employers and unfortunately the government are doing far too little to ensure that people actually have a good pension in their old age. For example, the labour market is being made more flexible and the government makes it possible by rules to give people bad contracts and poor working conditions, so that they do not build up a pension. It should not be surprising that employers are eager to use it as well. Flex constructions flood our country. A lot of people have a zero-hour contract. People with full-time jobs, such as postmen, parcel delivery workers and people in care, are now sometimes or often forced to work inzzp structures. All those working people don't, or hardly ever, build up a pension. This enormous disaster is coming when these people are about to pass retirement age. At the same time, we see on the other hand that these adjustments can lead employers and temporary employment agencies to run away with huge profits. FNV has calculated that the working people are missing EUR 6 billion because they are not building a pension. At the same time, this government is disconnecting the AOW, the last safety net we have here for older people who have not built up a supplementary pension or too little, from the minimum wage. It is very painful to see that this safety net is getting worse, while at the same time about 25% of what we spend every year on pension contributions goes to the implementation costs of the system. That is EUR 10 billion a year for men and women in expensive suits on the Zuidas, while indexing pensions is not money. Of course, part of the money has to be spent on administration, but our pension money also goes to bonuses for these people and to mega-salaries for top men in pension funds. That's the practice. There was a time when we were satisfied that we had already saved EUR 600 billion in the joint pension fund. That was in 2008. In the meantime, we are 14 years ahead and that amount goes towards the EUR 2,000 billion. This amount of money is more than twice the Dutch economy combined. In the same 14 years most pensioners and future pensioners have had virtually no indexing. Some have even been cut off from retirement. In all these 14 years, in which pensioners didn't get a penny, prices continued to rise. The rent went up, the energy has become much more expensive, houses have become priceless, care has become more expensive and also in the supermarket. Everybody has seen it... the prices go through the roof. Under the terms, as has been calculated, pensioners have lost up to 25% of their pension purchasing power. They've lost a quarter in these years. They don't get the annual indexation on the money they've been saving together. The pension pots are getting fuller and fuller, but the wallet of these people is becoming army and army. Mr. Chairman. This is precisely why it is so good that my colleague Bart van Kent has adopted this law by Mrs Van Brenn. It is important that we stop the pension robbery, so that the elderly finally get an increase in their pension. There is a nice and simple law here, which determines the calculation rate for pension funds at least 2% for the coming years. The most logical question is, of course, why this 2% is set as the lower limit. Perhaps the author could go into that again. Why not more? Why not less? The applicant bases its calculation rate of 2% on CPB transfers. Can he explain again why this is a good number? If pension funds have been making a return between 5% and 7% for decades, why not opt for a higher rate? Why have we just had this discussion? Why are we forcing our pension funds to be poor when the actual returns are so much higher? As SP, we are well aware that the money contained in pension funds is not intended to be used unnecessarily. No one needs an index when it's dead and buried. At the same time, we must also note that we must be careful and not, therefore, I said earlier that after our flood, we can simply empty the pension pots. So you have to be careful. I think that Mr Van Kent's proposal here today has solved that in a very good way. I would also like to ask the question: is it true that in the last 50 years, except for a few months, more premiums have always been paid than pensions have been paid? What does the author say about the amount of reserve we currently have in pension funds? We have received beautiful letters from renowned economists, an entire club, who say: the pension funds are currently calculating themselves in the pit. Does the author agree? How can we do that? Mr. Chairman. We see that interest is rising. As has already been mentioned, this has already been indexed with some funds. Fortunately, I also read that the proposers have taken this into account, by saying that this 2% really is a lower limit, but that you can also sit above it if the circumstances allow it. I also wonder what the consequences will be if the Future Pensions Act comes or doesn't. 'Cause what if that law gets delayed or gets all caught up in this Chamber or in the Upper Chamber? Shouldn't this petitioner's law continue to work? The law is now described until 2027, but what if the Future Pensions Act ends here or in the First Chamber? Shouldn't the present law be dragged through? We are considering tabling another amendment to this. Finally, Mr President. It would be very nice if today in this House we could really do the right thing for the pensioners of today, but above all I am also saying this in the direction of D66 for pensioners of the future. Because whether you are in favour of or against the new Future Pensions Act, or whether you are still in doubt about it, everyone will have to see that it is unfair that the pensioners have not had an index on their pensions for 14 years now. That while the pension pots are flooded and flooded, up to almost EUR 2,000 billion. People have saved this money together, it's their money. As far as the SP is concerned, they are entitled to do so. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u93	Very well, thank you. The last word is for Mr Nijboer of the Group of the Party of Labour.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u94	Thank you, Mr President. I too would like to begin by thanking the initiators, first Mrs Van Brenk and then Mr Van Kent, who took over from her, for their initiative. An initiative proposal is one of the fine things that we, as parliamentarians, as co-legislators, but also as an initiative legislator, can do. It's always a lot of work, I know from my own experience. Mr. Chairman. I understand the concern that lies under this bill, namely the endless non-indexation, or very limited indexation and sometimes even the reduction of pensioners' pensions. I understand very well that a Member of Parliament will think: we are dealing with this pension system, and I want to do something with it; I want people to be indexed and re-retired. That's what this bill says, that's what this is for. Mr. Chairman. I have three fundamental questions about this bill. The first question concerns the 2% that has been chosen. Of course, there are a lot of alternatives. I have read the law; the initiator says that he himself looked at six, seven, eight alternative methods before he could arrive at an interest rate. But I am not entirely clear as to why this 2% has been achieved. Why hasn't another method been chosen, for example the method advised by the ESC, or a longer-term average? I am not going to go through all the six or seven alternatives mentioned by the initiator in his explanatory statement, but why is this method chosen? That's not entirely clear to me. Mr. Chairman. I understand that you want something and that you want to index, but on the other hand it is also about 1,800 billion to 2,000 billion, depending on the daily rates, in ability to redistribute at one point with the percentage you choose politically here. I have a lot of problems with the current calculation rate method, but if you choose something else, it will require a very good justification of that other percentage. I'm still looking for that. I would ask the initiator to go into that more closely.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u95	A question from Mr De Jong.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u96	I did not submit the initiative, but we have argued a few times for a real rate of calculation, which does more justice to the returns achieved. If you see pension funds reaching between 5% and 7% per year, you could also say: hey, that 2% is in line with that and is responsible at the same time. Could it be that 2% is just enough to take away the pain of non-indexing and, at the same time, to provide space to eventually arrive at a calculation rate that we all think is justified for the future? We believe that this 2% is certain, but could this also be a good reasoning for the Labour Party?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u97	I come to my second objection, and this is a bit like that. But in itself, I understand the concerns of the initiators. My predecessor, Mr Gijs van Dijk, tried it another way, not through the interest rate but through the question "when can you pay out?', The 105% that is now really close and which is criticised quite a lot by your party. This now seems to offer substantial improvements in pensions. So you can try to index faster via different buttons in the existing pension contract. I myself think that is more my second point; I come to that in such a way that the calculation rate may not be the most appropriate method for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u98	This is interesting, because Mr Gijs van Dijk has indeed mentioned that 105%. It was 110. Then why 105? Why not 108? Why not 102? The Labour Party came up with 105. We were okay with that, by the way. We didn't lie for that. We have said that this is a good thing, because it is a step in the direction of indexation and it allows us to look at how to deal with such an arithmetic rate and the degrees of coverage. Could it be... There is one thing we know for sure now, namely that the current rate of calculation has ensured that there has been no indexing for 14 years and that there is a pension fund of EUR 2,000 billion. There is no indexing. The pension doesn't end up with the people it's supposed to end up with. Could it be that the Labour Party says: okay, that's enough reason for us to support that now? Today, Mr President-in-Office, I conclude by saying that pension funds are at 1.5% because interest rates have increased and now they are now saying that they are not going to index, that not one pension fund will be in trouble, but that pensioners will be able to benefit from it. Could that be enough for the Labour Party? And if that is not the case, how do you support it towards pensioners?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u99	In reply to Mr De Jong, I would like to ask my second fundamental question: should politics determine the rate of calculation? I say that very seriously to the initiators. In this case, should we, as a Chamber, decide by law, but then by amendment or motion, what is the relevant accounting rate for the coming years? Is that what you're supposed to want to determine politically? Or should you make the system so that there is a just and reasonable outcome? I agree with the critics and that is why we, the PvdA, have made proposals in the past like those 105%. That's something I think to argue with. How much buffer do you require as a politician? Do you think 10% is reasonable? Do you think 5% is reasonable? You can comment on that in the system. Do you have to value on market interest or not? Is that fair? But that is quite different from defining the percentage in a law. I think that is a fundamental question: should you want to do that as a political one, is it wise to do that? I have serious doubts about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u100	Rounding, short, short, short.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u101	That's very debatable. The Labour Party has come up with that 105%. A political choice. Last week the Labour Party tabled a motion to deal with the huge bonuses towards private equity. A political choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u102	Of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u103	Exactly. Those are all political choices. In 2007, a political choice was made to adjust the calculation rate. A political choice. We're not here at the chess club or anything. We're in politics to change things that go wrong. Could it be that 2% is currently providing a solution for millions of pensioners? And why is it that I feel a little bit of a bit of a Labour Party is now going to lie there for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u104	I'm not gonna lie down for anything. I'm just asking critical questions about a law that's about a lot of power from a lot of people. That's my job, too. That is why we have chosen this 105% rather than the arithmetic rate, because as a policy you can put the buffer requirement. This was in line with my third question, of course, and also with the development and agreements made by the social partners in the new pension system. That was more in line with that approach. I think that if you change one element in such a pension system, it should fit within all the arrangements, pension funds and methodologies you have. That is also a question for the initiators: how does that relate to that? I think that's important. It's taking way too long, I'm giving everyone along. But if you look at all these things as a whole, then the big advantage is that you have support for it, that you have thought carefully about it, that you have weighed all those elements and that you can look at what it means for the different generations. I find it worrying to take one element out of it and adapt it without arguing it in depth. That is my question to the initiators. Mr. Chairman. I also believe that the initiative should be considered throughout the pension system. Mrs Maatoug also put forward arguments for this: how do you actually look at the future of the pension system? We are not going to have that discussion here. We have a whole law and a whole trajectory for that. However, I would like to highlight a few elements. I'm a big supporter of a bigger and higher AOW. So I am also strongly opposed to the decoupling provided for in the coalition agreement. Why? Because more and more people are working and not building a pension. I think it is wise to have a larger AOW, a larger part, and a relatively smaller part of a second pillar pension. I also want more people to build up pensions in the second pillar, so that something is being done about it. I would therefore ask the initiator, Mrs Maatoug, to explain this very comprehensively in order to consider how this relates to the other developments in the pension system. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u105	One more question from Mr Hijink.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u106	Mr Nijboer spoke about the basis of support. What strikes me, including the bears that he is actually throwing on the road against this law, is that the support for the pension system, which is in fact already vaporizing as snow for sunshine, does not, of course, increase in this way. Because the conclusion of his story is: we're not gonna do anything for the time being and we're gonna accept for the time being that the risk of no indexation is just gonna exist. If you are looking for support, why not consider a simple solution? Not until the end of time, because it's a bridging arrangement. It is a temporary law to prevent us from indexing pensions unjustly in the coming years. Surely it is wise to think about this in that way, regardless of how you feel about the future of pensions?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u107	I agree with Mr Hijink that support for the pension system is under pressure and that this is a major concern. I also agree that there is no indexing for a very long time, that people are furious about it and that something must be done about it. I do not agree that this law offers a solution in the short term and other things could not. If the pension system is made right, then we are going to discuss it, because I do not yet agree with the Minister on how it is proposed now; so it really needs to be adapted a little bit more. This can also provide a solution by 1 January, no later than this law. So I do not agree at all that this is working in the short term and that other solutions are not. It's been a long time. I'll give you that. I just turned that in myself. But it is not that if we do not do this there will be no solution or there will be no other methods. That's not true.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u108	Very brief, finalizing.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u109	Well, that's very optimistic. Perhaps there are other methods, but this is by chance one that is quick and easy to realize without taking irresponsible risks. I think that's a very important one. I think that Mr De Jong has rightly said the same thing. If you see the returns that pension funds have made, between 5% and 7% over the past few decades, so not just coincidentally, but year by year, year by year, then 2% is a very reasonable starting point, for the coming years, until you are going to be able to say that I agree with you on a good final arrangement. Then it's actually a very reasonable proposal for a SP'er, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u110	Well, you shouldn't disqualify yourself. I always take any proposal from any party here in the Chamber seriously. You're trying to seduce me. I really look forward to the answers, but I have also indicated to Mr Hijink that I am the basis below 2%, its durability and the method chosen... Why not 3%? Why not 4%? That would be less prudent. Why not 1%? It's about 1,800 billion that you slide back and forth as politics, and I have critical questions about that. I also have the question as to whether as a parliament we should say a little '4% is it' or '3% is it'. We're saying 2% now. What do we say next year? Maybe someone'll file another motion. I don't think that's justified if you want a future-proof pension system.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u111	Rounding up. Short, short, short, short.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u112	Do you agree that the calculation of which level of coverage is necessary to be able to pay out or not to pay out is just as debatable: 90%, 100%, 105%? That has everything to do with the exact calculation rate you're using. If you use a more logical and accurate calculation rate, you don't need the whole thing with the buffers. That'll make it a lot smoother, too. Isn't that one of those political choices you can make? Why don't we just meet here?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u113	I think buffers are always necessary. I think it would be very unwise to say that if we choose a different calculation rate, we will no longer need buffers. Of course they're political choices. That's why we're talking about it here. The SP proposes a law and the Minister proposes a law. So, of course, we're all about it in the end. But I think you should look very seriously at the way you come to that, the argument that lies underneath and the effect it has on different groups. I've been asking questions about that. I wonder whether it will improve long-term confidence in the pension system if you change the accounting rate and turn it into a political instrument. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u114	So much for the first term of office. Thank you very much to the Minister for her somewhat passive role today, but that does not affect our appreciation of the fact that she was here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-18-tweedekamer-8.u115	On another day, we are going to listen to the answers of the initiator, and we look forward to that.
