ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-5.u1	We shall then proceed to the two-minute Informal Energy Council on 21 and 22 January 2022, but only after I welcome the new Minister for Climate and Energy. It's quite nice to see you sitting on that chair in that box in this capacity. Welcome aboard. I would also like to welcome my colleagues. We're gonna start soon. The first speaker is Mrs Leijten van de SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-5.u2	Mr. Chairman. When Mr Jetten made his maiden speech as a Member of Parliament, we were not allowed to interrupt him, but of course we are going to do so today during his maiden two-minute debate. I look forward to that. Welcome. We held a written discussion on the Energy Council for next week. I believe it will take place on Mondays and Tuesdays. One of the major discussions that is currently taking place is taxonomy. Can the Minister explain in one minute what taxonomy means exactly? I think I can translate it well when I say that it is about the valuation of financial investments, including sustainability. That doesn't mean that investments in dirty energy, to put it bluntly, in old and fossil energy, shouldn't be allowed anymore, but if you invest in sustainable and clean energy, you get a better appreciation, hoping that this type of investment will score better in the financial market. So it's air for financial investments. People were extremely happy that there was finally taxonomy, that something could finally happen about financial investment in something that is positive for the future, rather than coal, oil and gas. In recent times, among other things, this Chamber has been discussing whether nuclear energy should be included. That is very debatable, but the European Commission, in all its wisdom, does not reject it. She says, "If we do nuclear energy, we're gonna do gas." I hope that the parties who have ensured that the Netherlands works for nuclear energy in taxonomy are pleased that gas is now included. I think we should stop that. The minister has to go and stop that. Austria and Spain are also keen to stop it. Austria is even threatening legal proceedings against the European Commission. How does the Minister feel about that? Mr. Chairman. Now I come to my motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the European Commission not only wants to include nuclear energy as a sustainable financial investment in taxonomy, but now also wants to add natural gas;]] [[Considers that this exploits the tool to score financial investments for their sustainable character in order to "greenwash" fossil fuels;]] [[calls on the Government not to agree to this proposal and to try to build a coalition of like-minded Member States which will destroy this proposal,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Leijten.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-33-905]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-5.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On behalf of me, too, welcome to the new Secretary of State. I believe that he is the first ruler of the new cabinet to be allowed to hold the debate here in this Chamber. We have a full agenda this year, so we'll be talking a lot. I already have one question about that. Can the Minister tell us about the climate and energy policy letter and when the Chamber can expect it? That's what I like to hear for our own planning. I therefore have two motions on the Energy Council to start immediately. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the EU taxonomy is technologically neutral and needs to be established on the basis of scientific facts;]] [[whereas the Joint Research Centre in its report of 2020 indicates that the effects of nuclear energy are largely comparable to hydropower and renewable energy sources and we therefore have the assessment to add nuclear energy to taxonomy;]] [[whereas the European Commission is now proposing to add nuclear energy to taxonomy;]] [[calls on the cabinet in Europe to promote the rapid acceptance of nuclear energy in taxonomy and thus to avoid further delay of this instrument while seeking cooperation with like-minded Member States,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Erkens, Mr Bontenbal, Mr Stoffer and Mr Van der Plas.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-33-906]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-5.u4	Mrs Leijten, do you have a question about this motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-5.u5	Yes, and about the consequence of this motion. The nuclear lobby has clearly also landed with the VVD Group and with a majority in this Chamber. We have seen before that the House of Representatives believes that nuclear energy should be included in taxonomy. But now the European Commission's proposal has become: yes, but then we also add gas. How does the VVD feel about that? This has been the result of this lobby: the playing field is open to include fossil fuels. This brings us to the slide with which the VVD is actually making the instrument of taxonomy very blunt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-5.u6	I do not agree with the assumption that gas has been absorbed because nuclear energy has been absorbed. I believe that nuclear energy has gone through a long process in which it has been scientifically tested to see if it fits in. These criteria are also included in the proposals. Did we as a VVD choose to take gas in this taxonomy? No, that wasn't our preference either. We have also previously supported a motion in the Chamber on this issue. At the same time, we are in the European Union with 27 Member States, so we cannot all get exactly what we would like. We now prefer a taxonomy that is accepted and with which we can really get started rather than the ideal, perfect solution that is not going to come.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-5.u7	I have been European Affairs spokesman for a long time. At the moment when a particular proposal fails, the European Commission says: well, then we add something that means that on average there is a majority. So nuclear energy is probably being pulled in by a majority now because they add gas. That is exactly what the nuclear lobby has fought for. The accession of Albania and northern Macedonia was tying up and now there is tying in nuclear power and gas. This really makes everything that you could positively judge on the one hand very blunt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-5.u8	And what's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-5.u9	Let me make my question to the VVD very concrete. Do you want nuclear energy and gas to be absorbed and taxonomy to be blunt, or do you say: no, gas really should not be in it, and at a later date we will be working for nuclear energy again?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-5.u10	I just answered the question. We wouldn't have liked to see gas in it. There's a proposal on the table now. There are also additional requirements in the area of gas. It is not the case that gas plants can be built everywhere and that they count. The building permit is due for 2030. It must be below a certain CO emissions over a certain time horizon. And there must also be a replacement of a coal power station. He's leaving because of it. To put it bluntly, that is the set of conditions that has been set. Now that proposal is before us. Then we would say: let us also be pragmatic. There is a proposal that is likely to be supported by a majority. It's got nuclear power in it, too. That is what we want to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-5.u11	So gas is allowed in taxonomy, as far as the VVD is concerned? Yeah?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-5.u12	I think I have answered that question twice already. You want a yes-or-no answer. If it had been on the VVD, gas wouldn't have been in taxonomy. There is now a proposal in which it is included, with additional requirements, to which nuclear energy is also linked. It is our weighting that we can accept that proposal, even if we would have liked it to be different.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-5.u13	I have the coalition agreement here. The ink is just dry, because we had the government declaration debates yesterday. It states: that is why we aim to achieve the climate target of up to 1.5 degrees of the Paris climate agreement. Then I have a letter from this autumn, around Glasgow, in which the same four parties have decided that we will no longer finance fossil energy abroad. One of the reasons why these four parties have decided is that the IEA, the International Energy Agency, with its Net Zero Roadmap, has indicated that new investments in new oil and gas fields do not fit in the 1.5 degree scenario. This is a litmus test, Mr. Erkens. This is about whether gas is labelled green and you are going to let go of the 1.5 degree. This is about the fact that the government declaration and the government agreement for the VVD can already be put in the trash because you do not take the 1.5 degree seriously. That's not what I'm saying; that's what the International Energy Agency says, not exactly a left-wing club.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-5.u14	There's a lot of assumptions in that. I'm glad that in the new year we're going straight to last year's tone here. It just doesn't make sense what Mr Thijssen says. We signed at COP26 that export credit insurance is indeed going to be greened, that the Dutch government does not support gas drilling and oil drilling abroad. This is about a taxonomy in which private investors can invest in a gas plant. That's a completely different discussion. I understand you're trying to put that together. I understand you're calling in the coalition agreement, as if we're acting contrary to that. Mr. Thijssen, that's just not right. It's as simple as that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-5.u15	Mr Thijssen, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-5.u16	Well, then, I'd like to explain. I'm not saying it's the same thing. I also understand that taxonomy is something other than export credit insurance. Here's what I'm talking about. Mr Erkens says in the coalition agreement: 1.5 degrees is in front of us; we are going to fight hard and hard for that. I'm very happy with that ambition. There is a report from the International Energy Agency, which says: then we must stop making fossil investments now. The financial institutions say, also yesterday and over the last few weeks: give us that clarity, otherwise we will invest in new fossil power stations.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-5.u17	Your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-5.u18	If the VVD is now in favour of a taxonomy in which gas is called "green," then there will be fossil investments and you will not reach your own 1.5 degree of government agreement. That is what this debate is about. So my question to the VVD is: reject this proposal. Gas shouldn't be in taxonomy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-5.u19	I think I've already answered the question four or five times. We wish we hadn't seen gas in taxonomy. It's in there. It is a proposal that 27 European Member States should be able to accept or at least a large majority of it. It's also about CO reduction in there. It is also expected that the requirements of these gas plants will ensure that we also reduce more CO in Eastern Europe at least. Would we have liked to see this in taxonomy? No, but in view of this proposal, which is linked to gas and nuclear energy, we simply want to get to work on this. I can answer the question five more times, and you can still try to pull all the other assumptions, but that will not change my answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-5.u20	Mr. Thijssen, we're doing two-way interruptions, and this is a two-minute debate. I know that you would like to debate this for a very long time.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-5.u21	Unfortunately, thanks to the VVD, we did not have a debate but a written consultation, but I conclude that in the first debate after the government declaration, the VVD unfortunately abandons the 1.5 degree, despite all the fine words.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-5.u22	In my view, we have set a 60% national target in the coalition agreement, with at least 55% being laid down by law. With this we try to make our contribution to that 1.5 degree. The Fit for 55 package is coming up. Mr Thijssen may have a different opinion on this; I think that will continue to be the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-5.u23	It is really harsh that in the very first debate of a fresh climate minister, who really wants to do it, the VVD actually says: well, let's call fossil funding "green." It can't be. My question is as follows. Mr Erkens says that it is a pragmatic decision and that he would rather not have seen it that way. Does Mr Erkens really think that pragmatism is what is needed now? There is a proposal from the Commission. Actually, that's getting fooled. All Member States can indicate their opposition. There is plenty of room for the Netherlands to say very firmly: 'We do not want this proposal to be officially adopted. It is now in consultation and we want it to be adapted before it goes into consultation." At this stage, therefore, there is plenty of room for the Netherlands to go into it very firmly and to say: keep green; if necessary, create another category where nuclear energy and gas are present, but the proposal now before us is fossil greening.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-5.u24	I can explain it for the sixth time. Fortunately, Mrs Kröger is now making another point. Last year I voted in favour of a motion by the Secretary of State, at the time for Climate and Energy, that gas does not belong in taxonomy. I wholeheartedly support the new Minister's re port, but if that means voting away the whole proposal, we would prefer to take the pragmatic route: adopt the proposal and also start working on climate policy instead of constantly looking in this Chamber for the perfect theoretical solution and therefore constantly seeing those targets disappear before 2030. We just want to get to work on that. That speed takes precedence over our search for the perfect solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-5.u25	Mrs Kröger, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-5.u26	With speed above just getting rid of fossil, we're never gonna make it to the 1.5 degree. But what I find difficult to answer from Mr Erkens is that, because he is actually saying that the VVD is going to agree in the first place, he is, of course, cutting away all the negotiating space in order, as the Netherlands, to make a firm commitment to Spain's proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-5.u27	Your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-5.u28	So I really don't get it. Even if you finally land on something pragmatically, it is important at this stage of the consultation that the Netherlands clearly indicates that this proposal is not acceptable.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-5.u29	I just don't agree with that. Then we can have a whole debate with each other, but our views will not agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-5.u30	Proceed with your second motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-5.u31	Mr. Chairman. My second motion is next. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the European taxonomy for 2045 includes a so-called sunset clause for nuclear energy, although there are many innovations in the field of nuclear technology;]] [[calls on the Cabinet to inform the Commission that the 2045 sunset clause should not apply to new techniques which are still being invented,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Erkens.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-33-907]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-5.u32	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-5.u33	Thank you to Mr Erkens. Mrs Kröger van GroenLinks has the floor. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-5.u34	Mr. Chairman. We are on a collision course with the climate and it is incredibly important that we get to work quickly to really start that transition. I also look forward to seeing how the new climate minister will do that. To quote Mr Thijssen, this is a litmus test. 'Cause it's about whether or not we're really going to greenwash fossil. Are we all going to allow that? We can't do that, and we're not going to achieve that 1.5 degree goal. Mr. Chairman. That is why, as we have already seen from the debate on the interruption, the Netherlands is fully committed to ensuring an alternative route with other Member States. Let green be green. That is what all financial institutions are asking for. That is what large other Member States are asking for. This is important, hence the next two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the financial world is deeply concerned about the decision to include gas in European taxonomy;]] [[Whereas it is crucial to achieve rapidly a robust and widely accepted taxonomy that defines green investment and risks being undermined by the discussion on gas;]] [[Whereas the proposal from Spain to create a separate category could include, for example, gas;]] [[calls on the Government to urge the European Commission to replace the delegated act on gas with a legislative proposal for a separate category in which gas could fall,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kröger and Mr Thijssen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-33-908]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-5.u35	Then the next motion, which is pretty much the same. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the financial world is deeply concerned about the decision to include nuclear energy in European taxonomy;]] [[Whereas it is crucial to achieve rapidly a robust and widely accepted taxonomy that defines green investment and risks being undermined by the debate on nuclear energy;]] [[Whereas the proposal from Spain to create a separate category could include, for example, nuclear energy;]] [[calls on the Government to urge the European Commission to replace the delegated act on nuclear energy with a legislative proposal for a separate category in which nuclear energy could fall,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kröger and Mr Thijssen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-33-909]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-5.u36	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Unfortunately, the first debate on climate is a two-minute debate, because I had very nice words in mind about the coalition agreement and about the new minister. So I'm gonna do it a little bit shorter, but congratulations on the new job. Very honorable. I think it's really great that we have a climate drag as Minister for Climate. I can't tell you how high my expectations are, but they're huge. I'm gonna do everything I can to make sure we get all these great goals. I am very curious to see a passing on of the coalition agreement, because that is not possible right now. As a result, I think: they are very fine words but I would like to see actions and something that I can hold the Minister to. So that's a first question from me to the Minister. The rest I am going to do when we have a longer debate, because now it is important to talk about taxonomy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-5.u37	Mr Erkens has a question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-5.u38	We have a lot of climate debates over the next three years. I regret that Mr Thijssen does not now have enough time to say a few fine words about the coalition agreement. To give him that space, I'd like to ask him what he likes about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-5.u39	Thank you, Mr. Erkens. For the next time, I would like to say: do not turn a debate into a written discussion, because then we can indeed have that debate with each other. I think it is very good that these four parties have said that the one and a half degrees of the Paris Agreement are so terribly important and that every effort must be made to achieve it. I think this is very valuable. I also think it is a good thing that a lot of money is being released to get it done. What I also think is very good is that the agreement says that everyone can experience this, including low and middle incomes. But there is also my very great concern. These four parties have done about half of what they have promised in the past four years. Now they promise even more. I have to say, and I have that in a lot of the coalition agreement that I simply don't believe it anymore. So I'd like to have a plan and I'd like to get it passed on so I can see that the deed is added to the word. The same applies to low and middle incomes. I hear a lot of fine words about that, but the coalition is not making it true at that point. Yesterday in the debate on the declaration of government, my party indicated that the low and middle incomes were being treated rather harshly. So I see the fine words in the coalition agreement and I see the 60 billion. I would hope that we can take as a starting point that the lives of people with low and middle incomes will be improved by climate and energy policy, but I do not see that firm commitment in the coalition agreement, and I am going to fight for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-5.u40	I am also curious about the attitude taken by the PvdA in the climate debate over the next few months. You begin your speech by saying that you still have to see it all and that you no longer believe it and so on. We are dealing with a new minister and also with new spokesmen. I think there's a lot of ambition in it. The cynicism we always see, including in the climate debate, is quite toxic, even for the political debate. We often talk about a new political culture here. Wouldn't it be wise, I would really like to take a constructive look at the whole ambitious coalition agreement with each other in this committee? This way we can keep each other sharp and make the agreement a little better with good proposals. I think cynicism is very bad for the debate. This does not do justice to the coalition agreement, but also to the PvdA and its tradition.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-5.u41	Well, thank you, Mr. Bontenball. I don't see any cynicism in me yet. I sense realism. I'm looking at what's been delivered over the past four years, and I see the targets haven't been met. I see it didn't happen fair. I see we have less and less time to make it. I'm really excited about it. I see more ambition now. I was just congratulating the Minister, who I congratulate on his new job. I think that the PvdA, especially together with GroenLinks, has given much more thought to how we solve climate change. We're really gonna help the coalition with constructive, good proposals. We have to do it in a fair, just way. But I'm realistic and I'm not gonna sit around and think wishful thinking. However, this coalition must deliver, because the next four years are crucial for the 1.5 degree. If it doesn't happen for the next four years, if you don't do what you've written down, it's becoming increasingly and increasingly difficult to stop dangerous climate change. I welcome the ambition, I am realistic about the past and I am going to make constructive opposition to try to achieve these goals. But I'm not crazy. However, butter has to be delivered to the fish.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-5.u42	You came to the end of your speech?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-5.u43	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-5.u44	I loved the last word.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-5.u45	I complimented you, but I also had a point.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-5.u46	Oh, one more point.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-5.u47	I still have a very big point. I have just said it in an interruption with Mr Erkens: this is a litmus test, right on the first day of this new climate minister. There is a wonderful goal in the coalition agreement: the 1.5 degree of Paris. I just read it to you: last year around Glasgow, a letter came from the Secretary of State. It says that the International Energy Agency says that fossil investment does not match that 1.5 degree. The coalition has taken over. Immediately on the first day, the new climate minister is confronted with the largest coalition party that thinks nuclear energy is a little more important than 1.5 degrees: let it go. My question is how the climate minister will react to this litmus test. I very much hope that the Minister will keep his back straight and say that the 1.5 degrees and not nuclear power are the guiding principles of the coalition agreement. You can do a little research, but the 1.5 degree is leading; this proposal is not enough and that is why we are going to vote against it in the European Commission. A nice compromise for the climate minister might be to say to the VVD: but I try to fight for a separate category. That's where we can put nuclear power. It is not as black as oil, but then it becomes purple or yellow or amber, which is the color of Spain. So that is my question to the climate minister about the litmus test that is right in front of us on his first day. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-5.u48	Thank you, Mr Thijssen. Mr Bontenbal, CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-5.u49	Mr. Chairman. This is the first, short debate with the new Minister for Climate and Energy, and also the first debate following the presentation of the coalition agreement. Today we are talking about the European Energy Council. If something has been made clear to us over the last few months, it is this: if European Member States do not coordinate their energy policies better, we will be at great risk in the years to come. In the Netherlands, we will continue to build a new CO-free energy supply: wind energy, solar energy, nuclear energy and many more CO-free sources. But in Germany nuclear power stations are closed down and in Belgium there are plans for the closure of all nuclear power stations. These countries are even planning to build new gas plants. I don't understand. Mr. Chairman. The energy supply of Member States is tied together. A blackout in Belgium or Poland can shut down the entire European electricity supply. The gas supply is also under pressure. We see hugely increased gas prices and a geopolitical game with Russia about gas. This hits families and entrepreneurs very hard. That is why coordination between Member States on national energy policy is crucial in the coming years. Europe will need to take a coordinating role in this, not only through global climate policy, but also through security of supply and affordability. My question to the Minister is: will you put this plea to the Energy Council with the utmost urgency? I wish the new Minister much wisdom in his task. I also wish him much joy, because what is more beautiful than serving the public cause by working on a more sustainable and a more social Netherlands? And maybe I'm still going, because I have a few seconds left, to say something about taxonomy. I can't help it. Let us not forget that it is an EU Commissioner of the PvdA who makes the proposal. Of course, he doesn't do that for nothing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-5.u50	I have the same question to ask Mr Bontenbal. There is now a taxonomy for that gas greenwashing. We saw in the letter from the Secretary of State of the previous government, of which Mr Bontenbal's party was also a member, that he said: new fossil investments are not in line with the 1.5 degree according to the International Energy Agency. So is Mr Bontenbal also of the opinion that this proposal from the European Commission should be rejected, because gas cannot be grown green?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-5.u51	I think that the debate, as we have been talking about so far, is somewhat unsophisticated, because the whole story is not being told. Personally, I am pleased that we are finally getting a change in the debate on nuclear energy in Europe. I think we are now really seeing that nuclear energy in the Netherlands, and also in almost all Member States, except Germany, Belgium and Austria, are also the countries where the Greens are in the government, and I would just like to say that this is an essential part of climate-neutral energy supply, alongside wind, sun and so on. So I think it's important that we keep that in taxonomy. Then there's the gas part. Of course, I find that difficult too, but if you look very closely at the committee proposal, you will see that it is really just about a little bit. Even the new gas plants that Belgium would like to build to phase out these nuclear power plants are probably not included. There's a limit of 100 grams per kilowatt hour and it's really about replacing coal. What the Commissioner said is that if you build a gas power plant, it must actually lead to a mountain of CO reduction. That may also be a bit of a shift in the debate. I also opt for a pragmatic route. Steps that help to make really big jumps in the CO reduction I find very explanatory. So I wouldn't be hard on this too, provided, of course, the conditions created are tight enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-5.u52	So I note that, according to Mr Bontenbal, new fossil investments are apparently fine and that this is not going to reach the 1.5 degrees according to the International Energy Agency. We have to note that one day after the declaration of government, this super important and super-good objective is to be congratulated on the fact that it is in place. Vote against this proposal. This does not make nuclear energy impossible, but it concerns the following: trade according to science, that 1.5 degree, your own objective. Vote against this proposal. Resolve it in a different way, say the financial institutions in Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-5.u53	It is good that you want to make a political number during this first debate and immediately tell us that we all do not comply with the Paris Agreement and Glasgow and so on, and so on. I think this is a little cheap. You also know very well that, for example, those reports from IEA sometimes give a slightly more colourful image than you are now giving. There is also a very important distinction to be made between extraction, which is what it was about, and the gas plant, which is what this is about. Mr Erkens has already explained it. It's not about the extraction of fossil resources. Let us be quite honest: if we want to take major steps in CO reduction, we will have to choose a pragmatic solution in some countries if, for example, there is no possibility of moving quickly to renewable energy. An intermediate solution is natural gas with CCS, for example. We are not talking about some kind of ideological or principled discussion. We just want CO reduction quickly to stop climate change. There I see a difference between the colour we give as a party to it and a number of parties on the left side of the political spectrum. I think that there are often many dogmatic choices behind this, when I think: let us be pragmatic about nuclear energy and gas. It is about limiting climate change, not about whether or not you like certain technologies.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-5.u54	I notice that you have all started the new political season very enthusiastically. Again, this is a two-minute debate. No matter how enthusiastic you are, you can be a little shorter, even in the answers. Mrs van der Plas, I shall give you the floor first for a point of order. I imagine you, as a corona spokesperson, may have a problem with your agenda, because you are going to have the debate on corona at 1 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-5.u55	I am not concerned with my agenda, but I would like to make a point of order. We don't have a nuclear debate here right now. We're just having a two-minute debate. This is a whole nuclear debate. The Corona debate was scheduled to start at 12.30 p.m. If we keep this up, that Corona debate is gonna end. I say that not only for myself, but for everyone involved in the corona debate, including the staff. I would therefore like to make a point of order and ask you to be brief.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-5.u56	I just did, and I'm gonna do it again. It is a bit of a repetition, I also say to those Members who still want to ask questions. I give Mrs Leijten the floor briefly for a question to Mr Bontenbal.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-5.u57	I think that a point of order should be a point of order. I myself look at the edges of the debate and when I speak, but you have to make a point of order. This was not a point of order. I have a brief question for Mr Bontenbal. It is clear how we feel about nuclear energy. There is now a European dynamic. We know that the European Commission has added gas to carry nuclear power through. We're actually unhappy with gas. That's what you're saying. Whatever technique and pragmatism it is, that's quite ideological. Are you prepared, even though your signature is under Mr Erkens' motion, to give the Secretary of State a little more room to negotiate and see if that gas can come out? With the motion that is now before us and which you will have to vote on in the Chamber, there is no more room for the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-5.u58	Mr. Bontenball, a brief answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-5.u59	Short. Politics is the art of the feasible. You are asking me to give the Minister the space to come to a good outcome. We cannot follow all the negotiations exactly. The Minister can do much better than that. I am open to giving him the space to come to an outcome in which we can take options that really lead to CO reduction. This should lead us in Europe, including through funding, to ensure that CO reduction takes place.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-5.u60	That's bullshit. It is not the case that there is no funding if something is not in taxonomy. Because then something would really be at stake. If you're not in taxonomy with your nuclear energy and your gas, that funding can continue. He'll only get another rating. Everything that happens here happens on the slips of financial products and ultimately the fossil industry. If you say that you want to give the Minister the room to remove the gas part, then I ask the CDA to either remove his signature and vote against the motion later, or to hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-5.u61	No. I'm gonna wait for the Minister's answer first. I think that's a nice thing to do. In addition, the Minister will give a certain interpretation of this. That's what I'm listening to. You were just talking about bullshit. Those financial instruments are there for a reason. They're a means to stimulate. That's what taxonomy is for. It can help certain countries, if they do not want to take those steps in certain cases, to do so now. I am thinking of countries with very polluting energy supplies. For example, they can shut down coal power stations and take these steps.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-5.u62	Mrs. Kröger. I am going to be very brief, Mrs Leijten, because we are going to have a broader debate. Your point is clear. I give the floor to Mrs Kröger.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-5.u63	I think it is an important signal for the committee and especially for the VVD. We simply need to discuss these important issues in a debate and not finish them in writing. That's what this is all about.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-5.u64	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-5.u65	My question to the CDA is the following. It's about gas all the time. I want clarity. Now the CDA says gas is fossil and we have to get rid of it? Or does the CDA say that gas is actually fine? It's taxonomy. Mr Bontenbal says that it is fine, because we are talking about 100 grams of CO per kilowatt hour. But it's not. This is after 2030 and until 2030, the polluting gas plants are simply labelled green. There's no way the CDA can be for that, is there?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-5.u66	It just depends on what it replaces. If it leads to more CO reduction in the system, it can be justified. I do not understand why GroenLinks continues to have this kind of fundamental discussion. The point is that we reduce CO, even in countries that are very difficult to sustain. That directive is likely to lead to hydrogen-ready gas plants or, for example, to CCS. I think that's justifiable. It's not about gas plants in the Netherlands. It is not even about the new gas plants in Belgium. It is probably about gas plants in Poland, for example, because they want to shut down coal plants there. So it's about CO reduction, and then I think this can be defended. It's not the optimal outcome. That's where I think the Minister's room is. If he sees the opportunity to get it something else, that's what I'm for.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-5.u67	Mrs Kröger, very brief and final.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-5.u68	To approach the difference between something deserving or pragmatic, or now when the Netherlands say that this is not possible. Mr Bontenbal also knows that the proposal as it stands will only be changed if countries, such as the Netherlands, join Spain. As a chamber, we must give the new minister every opportunity to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-5.u69	That wasn't a question. You can respond to it very briefly. Otherwise, I will move on to the next speaker.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-5.u70	Very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-5.u71	Very briefly, because it is a repetition of moves.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-5.u72	You always distinguish between what is and is not a fossil investment. In those fossil resources there is also a sequence in which you want to get rid of it: coal, oil, gas. Preferably you get off the coal and oil first and only later on with gas. It's unrealistic to think you can stop them all at once. That's what it's about. It really is a fundamental difference in how we look at the energy transition. I like to have that discussion, but do you do it from some kind of ivory tower where all the intermediate steps are wrong, or are you looking at a pragmatic route, like the CDA does, and are we just going to make sure we reduce CO? That, I believe, is the task.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-5.u73	We're going to have that discussion at another time. Thank you. Mrs van der Plas, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-5.u74	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, of course, I would like to welcome our climate minister, Mr Jetten. I've seen now that you can become a minister when you make T-shirts with the word "drummer" on it, "climate dragmer" in this case. At BBB we are already busy making T-shirts with 'common sense-drummers'. Then we'll have a ministry in three years...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-5.u75	A Minister of Healthy Understanding?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-5.u76	A Minister of Healthy Understanding, yes. That was a very good tip. I wish Mr Jetten every success in his duties, of course. I'm sure our swords will cross hugely, but they're gonna be fine. I have a motion, but I have a little problem. Sorry, I left my glasses and they're pretty small print.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-5.u77	Mr. Bontenbal is here to take him to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-5.u78	I know about what it says... Thank you so much for this wonderful collaboration. That promises a great deal for the future. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the impact of the large-scale roll-out of wind farms at sea at ecosystem level cannot be assessed with a single environmental impact assessment per project, but is an addition of all projects in the North Sea together;]] [[Whereas it is not sufficiently clear in advance whether irreparable adjustments are being made in the North Sea region as a result of the roll-out of large-scale wind farms;]] [[noting that climate ambitions are pointless if the measures to do so destroy ecosystems whose intention was precisely to protect them with that climate policy;]] [[calls on the Government to draw up an integrated environmental impact assessment, which together reflects the impact of all projects in the North Sea region, and to develop this in cooperation with other Member States in the North Sea region,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Plas.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-33-910]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-5.u79	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to welcome the new climate minister. I say what I also said to his predecessor: you are the most important ruler in this cabinet, because you need to prepare and implement a solution to the greatest challenge we face. So stay healthy, keep exercising, sleep enough, because we need you very much, I say through you, Madam President. The climate minister is going to France next week. The leaders who preceded you and were successful in Europe always took the lead: Mrs Van Veldhoven, but also Mrs Sharon Dijksma, not my party, but credit where credit is due. I'd like to call you on two motions to do the same. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas European climate targets are unachievable if the "Fit for 55" package is not rapidly taken up, in such a way that the plans of all Member States and European legislation add up to a target range of at least 55%, and preferably with a view to 60% for the Netherlands;]] [[calls on the Government to set up a leading group at European level and to work to address the "Fit for 55" package swiftly and to ensure that all measures add up to at least 55% greenhouse gas emission reduction in 2030, and to regularly inform the Lower House of progress,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Boucke.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-33-911]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-5.u80	The second motion is more specific. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the "Fit for 55" package proposes a CO levy at the European border;]] [[whereas this CO border levy is not expected to apply until 2026;]] [[calls on the Government to set up a leading group at European level to speed up the introduction of the CO border levy as much as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Boucke.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-33-912]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-5.u81	I hope so. My question to Mr Boucke too is this. I think D66 is against the green labeling of gas. I would have liked to have been able to exchange some constructive proposals in the coming months, but it is now up to us to decide whether gas will turn green or not in Europe. Now there are two reluctant coalition parties that actually like gas when it's labeled green. So I think it's a litmus test for D66 to say now: 1.5 degrees is leading in the coalition agreement, gas cannot be labeled green, because then the 1.5 degrees gets out of sight, and we're gonna stand on our lines now and we're not gonna let this happen by the VVD and the CDA; even though we're not the biggest together, we're not gonna let this happen, we're gonna keep our backs straight.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-5.u82	Firstly, I look forward very much to constructive cooperation with Mr Thijssen. We have done that in the past, and I hope we will continue to do so, because we are doing it for the same purpose. I also agree with Mr Thijssen that, as he said in his speech, we have no time to waste. So let us not waste time playing political games and trying to catch each other flying. Then there is Mr Thijssen's question. Look, it's very clear for D66. We were against the inclusion of nuclear energy in taxonomy, and we still are. We were against the inclusion of gas in taxonomy, and we still are. That is the position of D66. I'm not a member of the VVD. I'm not a member of the CDA. I never will be, I can tell you here, and you can hold me to that. So I'm not talking about that, but I'm talking about the D66 position. And I think I just put that very clearly.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-5.u83	Very briefly, Mr Thijssen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-5.u84	How fast are you going to play that from D66? You have spoken these fine words over the last four years. Then you took half of what you promised. I see the same thing happening now, so is this just a breaking point for D66? Gas can't turn green.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-5.u85	D66 is a party with 24 seats in this Chamber. With those 24 seats, I am going to do my best to ensure that this taxonomy is a delegated act, because that is not yet the case. I have 24 seats. You were just trying to convince the VVD and the CDA. I'll try that, too, but you can see the reaction.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-5.u86	A very exciting answer. We're gonna see how that goes! I'm gonna suspend for five minutes and then we're gonna listen to the Minister's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-5.u87	I'll give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-5.u88	Mr President, thank you very much, and thank you to the members of the Chamber for this warm welcome, since I am in plenary for the first time as Minister for Climate and Energy. A two-minute debate that lasted no less than 45 minutes: the vote is certainly well in place. However, I think it is very special and important that the first debate that your Chamber is having after the debate on the declaration of government should be on the important issue of climate and energy. I have such a feeling that we will often meet in committee and in plenary in the coming years. I should like briefly to comment on a number of questions that have been raised, then to consider taxonomy and a comment by Mrs Leijten on this, and then to pass on the motions. First of all, questions have been asked about the ambition laid down in the coalition agreement. We have a great ambition for the Netherlands for 2030 and 2050, with a great deal of attention to the 1.5 degrees agreed in the Paris climate agreement, and an ambitious European approach needed to meet the Dutch climate targets. I have been asked when I will be more specific about the agreements made in that coalition agreement. Your Chamber decided yesterday to hold a debate on last year's climate and energy exploration within six weeks. On the first day I was sworn in, I immediately started working to send your Chamber a first climate and energy policy letter as soon as possible. I hope to be able to do that in a few weeks. I will outline what we are going to do in the near future and how I intend to take your Chamber into account in the future in the development of climate ambitions and the climate fund. I will also tell you when you can expect the most important legislation in the near future, because there is not only a great challenge for all kinds of parties and sectors to achieve this CO reduction, but there is also a great challenge for Cabinet and Chamber to go through this legislative agenda in the coming period. I will send that policy letter to the Chamber in February, is my endeavor. I hope that we will then be able to combine this with the already requested plenary debate on climate and energy exploration for next year. There is, of course, every room for this Chamber to think with, to keep me sharp and to provide ideas. I think that this Chamber has just shown that there is a lot of creative thinking in both the coalition and the opposition. We absolutely need them in the years to come. Among other things, Mr Thijssen, but also, in the interruptions, other Members of Parliament have indicated that the debate in Europe on taxonomy is a kind of litmus test. To be honest, I'd like to go a little bit wider. I believe that we all recognise here that ambitious and effective European climate policy is crucial to achieving Dutch ambitions. This litmus test, I believe, is not so much this taxonomy proposal as it is in the broad sense that we ensure that Europe's fit for 55 package is negotiated and adopted in the coming months, as it is only with good European climate policy that we can meet our goals and ambitions here in the Netherlands. The coalition agreement states that the Netherlands will take an ambitious lead in this European debate. You can expect me to do the same. This does not apply to me, but also to other colleagues in the cabinet who are dealing with aspects of climate policy. We will therefore work towards the European Commission, but also towards other Member States, to set up leading groups on topics and to see how we can further strengthen issues. I myself will not only go to France on Friday and Saturday for the informal Energy Council, but will also make several bilateral visits to neighbouring countries in the coming weeks in order to really find that cooperation for this ambitious European cooperation. Mr. Chairman. Then briefly a few questions and then the motions. Mrs Leijten asked me, and she also made a move herself, what this taxonomy debate is really about. That taxonomy discussion does not determine whether or not certain techniques are allowed. You can sometimes see that image: that if you know how to keep a technique out of taxonomy, it is forbidden to use such a technique. That is not the case. This debate also made it clear that taxonomy is mainly about private financing for this type of economic activity. It is quite clear that if certain techniques are included in taxonomy and are therefore labelled green, they are subject to more favourable financing conditions. The Netherlands has always spoken out to put together this taxonomy technology-neutral and science-based, and in advance not to exclude technologies. On 31 December, a confidential draft proposal was presented by the European Commission to develop taxonomy for nuclear and natural gas. The Commission chooses to include both nuclear energy and natural gas, contained in time and scope, as well as in a sustainable way. Member States may respond to this until the end of this week. I will soon inform the House of the reaction of the Netherlands. It will be in line with previously assumed chamber motions at this point. In the coming days, specifically Saturday at the informal Energy Council in Amiens, France, I will also consider this. I would like to say to the Chamber that the field of forces surrounding this issue is very complicated, with all kinds of different interests. With regard to nuclear energy, there has been a solid scientific process. The cabinet is therefore in principle in favour of Brussels' proposal to include nuclear energy in this taxonomy. On the basis of the scientific discussion that has taken place in recent years, this is really a lot more complicated for natural gas. That is why, in recent times too, we have spoken out against the inclusion of natural gas as a sustainable option. We have also returned this to the Commission. I'll do that myself in the near future. The Commission is expected to make a final proposal in the coming weeks. There will then be a procedure of about four months for possible objections from Member States or the European Parliament. Ultimately, a large majority of Member States remain: 20 Member States, 65% of the population in the EU. I will also inform the Chamber about the position of the cabinet on the final proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-5.u89	Mrs Kröger, I would really like the Minister to provide the motions with an opinion, because we really have very little time.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-5.u90	I'm almost through all the questions, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-5.u91	I'd like to go through first. I would like to meet with Members: if you have any questions about the Minister's opinion, which I can imagine, then I would only like to allow it to those who tabled the motion, otherwise it will be a whole debate again. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group).
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-5.u92	I have one short point before I get to the motions. Mrs Leijten asked what I think of the idea of introducing legal procedures on taxonomy. I myself believe that we are now at the stage where Member States are negotiating taxonomy with each other, but also broader about the 'Fit for 55' package. We must use all possible means and means to get the most out of the negotiations, not only in the interests of the Netherlands but also in the interests of a good European climate policy. It is already difficult to reach agreement on legal procedures between countries, but it is, of course, up to the Member States themselves to consider how they intend to do so. Mr. Chairman. Then there's the motions. The first motion, in part No. 905, that's Mrs. Leijten's. It calls for an attempt to build a coalition with like-minded Member States, so that this whole proposal dies. I must advise against this motion because, of course, I have been sent on the road with previous statements by the Chamber in which the Netherlands is positive about the inclusion of nuclear energy in taxonomy and very critical about the absorption of natural gas. I'll continue on that line, too. The motion-Erkens cum suis in part No. 906 calls on the cabinet to advocate rapid acceptance of nuclear energy in Europe. Here again, I would like to draw attention to the dual task of nuclear energy under conditions, but preferably not natural gas. I will continue my efforts in the near future to strengthen the European Commission's specific proposals on natural gas. I also see opportunities for working with like-minded countries. I will say a little more about this in response to Mrs Kröger's motion. If I may take that space in the near future in order to make the most of the negotiations, I can give this motion by Mr Erkens' judgment Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-5.u93	I'd love to, but you do have a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-5.u94	Very briefly, Mr. Chairman. We would prefer that nuclear power should not be placed in the traffic light model, but I can live well with it if you get that space for gas.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-5.u95	The Erkens motion in part No. 907 is about the sunset clause in 2045. I think that is in line with the commitment that the Netherlands has been making for a long time. We do not want to exclude future techniques and offer scope for innovation. Perhaps this could lead to better agreements in the future. The Commission intends to review taxonomy every few years, so this fits in. I therefore give this motion judgment Chamber. Then there is the Kröger/Thijssen motion on item No. 908. It calls on the government to urge the European Commission to replace the delegated act on gas with a legislative proposal for a separate category. Mrs Kröger also spoke about Spain's efforts. As I have just said, I will also look at the informal Council myself to see how I can work with fellow Member States to further strengthen and improve the proposals on natural gas. So I can give this motion a ruling Chamber. The Kröger/Thijssen motion in part No. 909 actually asks the same thing, but for nuclear energy. With reference to the debate, I must advise against that motion. The Van der Plas motion in part No. 910 concerns an integrated EIA for all projects in the North Sea region. We know we have a big problem for wind at sea. In the years to come, we want to generate much more wind at sea in order to achieve our goals and to prevent us from having to live up to those ambitions on land alone. BBB recently asked Parliament questions about this. I am still answering these questions in the Chamber, so I would ask Mrs van der Plas to hold this motion so that I can provide her with that answer first. That would be my request to Mrs van der Plas.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-5.u96	That's what we're gonna ask her. She signed out for now, but we're gonna ask her. We shall see that in the votes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-5.u97	It's all very well for that. I have two more motions, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-5.u98	Just a moment, Mrs. Kröger.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-5.u99	The Boucke motion in part No. 911 calls on the government to proceed rapidly with the "Fit for 55" package and to inform the Chamber regularly. I certainly intended to, so that motion can get judgment Chamber. The Boucke motion in part No. 912 is about a leading group for an acceleration of the CO-frontier tax. We have a committee debate next week on a number of tax proposals from the 'Fit for 55' package. That CO border tax for Europe is part of that, so I hope we can discuss it in greater detail next week. The motion that has already been tabled is in line with my commitment, so I can also give this motion judgment Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-5.u100	Mrs Kröger has a question about her motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-5.u101	My question concerns the motion on nuclear energy. I have just heard the Minister say that there is a scientific basis for the proposal to add nuclear energy to taxonomy. He then refers to the JRC's investigation. However, there is also an independent committee on the environment, the committee on the environment, which has said: no, it does not belong in it. Taxonomy requires scientific consensus before a technique can be added to taxonomy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-5.u102	And what's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-5.u103	My question to the Minister is: how can he talk about scientific basis if there are actually different scientific views, and can the Minister come back in writing and in substance to the question of how the advice of the SCEER committee relates to the JRC's research? And why does this offer the Dutch cabinet the scientific basis for supporting nuclear energy in taxonomy?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-5.u104	As a cabinet, we have assessed whether there is indeed sufficient scientific basis for the proposal that exists. We believe that this is the case at the moment. But if Mrs Kröger would like a more detailed written reply to that, I will send it to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-5.u105	Does this therefore concern the independent Committee on the Environment of the European Commission?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-5.u106	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-5.u107	That is a promise. Mr Thijssen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-5.u108	I'll be brief.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-5.u109	I'd love to.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-5.u110	I asked a question about the 1.5 degree. I said that gas has no place in it, that we should no longer have gas investments, and that we should certainly not have gas labeled "green" now. I understand that you are dissuading Mrs Leijten's motion, which simply says: if this is the proposal, then we do not support the proposal, because this proposal washes gas green. If you want to be firmly involved in the negotiations, I think you should simply state: what is now is not enough. You must state: I do not really want it at all, but possibly I can live with an amber category and I join Spain. Do you now stand for the 1.5 degree of the coalition agreement?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-5.u111	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-5.u112	Yes. That 1.5 degree is required to pass a viable planet on to next generations. That is why I also referred to the litmus test of the whole 'Fit for 55' package. I also trust that Mr Thijssen and others will keep me on that in the near future. The Leijten motion is against that whole proposal. That is not the task which the Chamber has given me, because it is more nuanced in terms of nuclear energy and natural gas. I see the Kröger/Thijssen motion as a support for further improvement of the proposal on natural gas in the near future, possibly in line with Spain's proposals.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-5.u113	Mr Thijssen, we're not going to do the debate again. No way. No. It has changed enough for the moment in this two-minute debate. Mrs. Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-5.u114	I have a question about the motions by GroenLinks and the Labour Party in part No. 908 and in part No 909. That question is mainly to understand what happens when it comes to reality, also to know how I advise my group to vote. If the negotiations succeed, then natural gas and nuclear energy will be in taxonomy, albeit in a different category, but they will be in taxonomy. So they score in taxonomy more positively as an investment. I understand that, don't I?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-5.u115	As I understand and interpret Mrs Kröger's motion, it is going to be a separate proposal on natural gas. In doing so, it actually becomes an intermediate variant, as Spain itself proposed. It is not entirely greenwashing, as Mrs Leijten calls it. It is not one of the other things that is already covered by taxonomy. That makes it less attractive. So what Mrs Kröger is proposing here seems very sensible to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-5.u116	Our reasoning is that taxonomy helps to see if financial investments you make contribute to greening and Fit for 55. But if you are going to make categories for gas and nuclear energy, which then work in that taxonomy, then that is the same slide, according to the reasoning of the SP. Because you don't have to include them. The investments are allowed to remain; that is what the Minister said. With the adoption and realization of the proposals of GroenLinks and the Labour Party, gas and nuclear energy eventually come into taxonomy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-5.u117	I see Mrs Kröger, the author of the motion, shaking no. Mrs. Leijten, perhaps you could put your ear to her.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-5.u118	I think that's what it says. It's happening so fast with the filing of those motions. We are not getting them, so I have not been able to ask Mrs Kröger, and I have to vote in a moment. But I think I know enough for now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-5.u119	The Minister will give a brief response.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-5.u120	Yes, very briefly. I believe that it is the intention of the motion, but also the commitment of countries such as Spain, to ensure that it falls into an intermediate category and that it becomes less attractive to see it as a green financial investment, because it is not. We all want to get rid of fossil as soon as possible. In conclusion, however, in line with Mr Bontenbal's speech, we will always have to look pragmatically at what steps we will be able to achieve the most rapid reduction in CO emissions in the coming period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-5.u121	I thank the Minister. Head's off. I thank my colleagues. This smells like more. We'll meet again.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-5.u122	We are going to vote on these motions at 1 p.m. with a view to tomorrow's Energy Council. Then we will continue with the debate on corona.
