ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-11.u1	The next item is the Amendment to the Health Insurance Act concerning the abolition of the collectivity discount, with the provision of Chamberpiece 35872. A warm word of welcome to the Minister. I'm glad you're back with us. We have eight speakers from the Chamber. The first is Mrs van den Berg from the CDA group, who initially had fifteen minutes, but who has shortened it to eleven. If all the speakers do that, we'll be done a lot earlier tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-11.u2	I call Mrs van den Berg.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-11.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Today we are talking about the theory and practice of solidarity. The Health Insurance Act ensures that we are all entitled to the same basic package of care and that we also pay the costs together. That is solidarity: sent to pay for the sick, people with a higher income for those with a lower income and young people for the elderly. With that, the collection discount was in theory a good idea. The objective was, after all, to return the savings on healthcare costs obtained by making care-related agreements for the benefit of a certain group of insured persons. However, in practice and research, it appears that the reductions are not being used for what they are intended for and that, unfortunately, the target has not been met. It turned out that a collective discount was the right thing to do with solidarity. This bill provides for the abolition of a collection discount on health insurance. Mr. Chairman. Healthcare insurers have had the opportunity to legitimise the collectivity discount for a number of years. That didn't work. After all, the collectivity discount is not paid back through savings from the Health Insurance Act. According to the Equalis study, the average reduction in collections per insured is 4.1% and the average individual annual premium is €1.409 in 2020. Multiplication of these numbers leads to an estimate in which the macro-level collectivity discount amounts to EUR 500 million. That's only for 2020. So if we calculate this amount for ten years, we're talking about 5 billion. Mr. Chairman. We're talking about resources we bring together. In part, the discount on collection is a cigar from your own box, but in part there is also cross-subsidisation: insured persons pay without or with a low discount on collection for insured persons with a high discount on collection. How would the Minister qualify insurance companies' behaviour? Why aren't there any legal consequences for this? And doesn't the legislation allow us to look at this with the supervision of the past few years? What is the role of the Healthcare Authority? Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the possibilities that this bill is going to offer in theory. After the adoption of this bill by both Chambers, a health insurance company can still agree with a collectivity that it provides a monetary advantage to the collectivity if participants in the collectivity take out specific health insurance. However, agreements between health insurers and collections should no longer lead to a reduction in the health insurance premium for an insured person. Isn't this a theoretical reality? Does the Minister think this is going to happen in practice? Or are there any such structures? Then what's the Minister thinking? Can he give a concrete example of this? But if the answer to this question is no, why don't we stop? And how is this going to be enforced? How is cross-subsidisation prevented? In the note following the report, the Minister states that there are several instruments left to keep the collection attractive to employees, such as a reduction in supplementary insurance. The supplementary insurance includes space to create customization for a specific employee target group. Employers may also provide contributions to encourage employees to join the collective. We're not dealing with supplementary insurance. That's a private arrangement or agreement. In this case, to what extent can employers soon require employees to take supplementary insurance? Supplementary insurance is not subject to an acceptance obligation from the health insurance provider. Does the Minister think that employees are going to take out additional insurance for a collectivity? Mr. Chairman. Then I would like to talk specifically about the so-called municipality policy. Other groups have also asked questions about this. The government states that it prevents one collectivity from receiving a higher discount for the same product than another collectivity. The CDA welcomes the fact that, in the context of poverty reduction, municipalities offer separate policies for low-income people or for people who are very vulnerable. Sometimes it compensates for costs that are not covered by the Health Insurance Act, but which people who are vulnerable do need, such as a lower own risk. The intention is, of course, that the additional damage of such a policy is also paid by the municipality that takes out the policy. In practice, this does not happen. This leads others, including social minimums, to contribute to the high collectivity discount for municipal policies, students and employees through the premium premium premium. That is, of course, never the intention of this policy. I come back to the question with which I started the debate on behalf of the CDA: how does the Minister qualify? What does he think of the behaviour of health insurers towards municipalities, but also towards the people with a very narrow scholarship, who do not have such a policy, but who do pay for it in other municipalities through the cross-subsidisation? The note on the basis of the report states that around a quarter of municipal policies already have a 0% reduction in the collection rate. This deterioration of risk solidarity through the collectivity discount was not intended. After the abolition of the collectivity discount, social minima will no longer be faced with the premium premium premium to finance the collectivity discount for themselves, but also for others in particular. But what does this mean for the future of the city policy? Should the CDA group derive from this that the municipal policy for people with a narrow scholarship next year will be cheaper for municipalities because the premium premium premium will disappear? And that if municipalities want to insure extra business, they will pay the damage for that themselves? If not, what does it mean? Will the Minister, in consultation with the health insurance companies, arrange this? In both 2020 and 2021, 95% of the municipalities offer a municipal policy. It is expected that the collections will disappear without any additional agreements. It is not known for which part of the municipal policies this applies. Why not? And what does this mean for people with a narrow scholarship? There is therefore no obstacle for municipalities to do anything extra for vulnerable people. Mr. Chairman. Finally, there are two other points. To prevent healthcare insurers from selecting on health there is the system of risk settlement. Healthcare insurers with more seriously ill patients receive more money than health insurers with only young students. The CDA has put forward several proposals in recent years to improve settlement, which still does not work at 100%. It still pays to avoid chronically ill. Does the Minister think that the abolition of the discount on collection will have an effect on the settlement of risks in the long term? Or have some health insurers perhaps received too much compensation, given the effect of the practice of the collectivity discount? Can the Minister send us a letter on this before July? We always talk about the risk settlement in July; hence our request for a letter to be sent before July. The Minister states that this bill contributes to a more transparent policy offering. I share that, if health insurance companies are not allowed to offer collectivity discounts. However, those same health insurance companies may still put budget policies in the shop window or a high-risk policy, a voluntary own risk, or a new invention: a twin policy. Clone policies are now banned. The twin policy means you take a policy that's exactly the same and makes one little difference. That kind of policy: the budget policies, the high own risk and also the twin policies have been a thorn in the eye of the CDA for years. Here, as far as we're concerned, is a world to be won. Will the Minister come forward with proposals to deal with this problem? Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I think I've spoken even faster than I thought.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-11.u4	Mrs Westerveld has a question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-11.u5	It's about the city policy. My colleague Mrs Ellemeet, who would actually be holding this debate, has tabled an amendment, together with Mrs Kuik, which proposes that the collection discount should apply to the municipality policy, precisely because it concerns the people with the narrowest grant. I would like to ask Mrs van den Berg whether she can count on the support of her group, because she is also making a point of the people on a narrow scholarship.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-11.u6	Yes, we are absolutely in favour of municipal policies, so that for vulnerable people something happens from the assistance. However, perhaps we see it wrong; I would like to hear the Minister's response: If a municipality receives a collectivity discount, while research shows that this is not paid back in the reduction of healthcare costs, that means, in our view, indirectly that residents of another municipality pay that discount. Well, then, of course, we all want a policy like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-11.u7	I understand this argument, but you can also look at it differently. These are people with often very narrow scholarships. The people for whom the city policy is, are the people who often have it harder. This does mean for them that they have less cost to care. If we look at it that way, would it not be a good idea to support this amendment?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-11.u8	Well, there are two things about that. Then, for us, the municipality that closes it should say, for example, a lower own risk: yes, but then I am going to take the burden of damage for all those residents who are covered by that policy. As we understand, the municipality in fact says with this reduction in collection: no, a piece of this burden of damage must be borne by other residents. You're gonna get uneven coats. Then we have to talk about it and say: we think that the health allowance for the lowest incomes should be raised, as Mrs Westerveld says. I can understand that in the whole debate and in the system discussion, but I do have a problem with it when a municipality says that I have made certain agreements with a certain burden of damage and I do not really want to bear the full burden of those agreements. But maybe we misunderstand. That is why I am very curious about the Minister's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-11.u9	We are going to listen to Mrs Paulusma from the group of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-11.u10	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Preventive and healthy lifestyle programs are essential for D66 to prevent disease, but above all to stay healthy for as long as possible. Appointments from the health insurance company with the collective to focus on a healthy lifestyle, I therefore warmly welcome. I understand the idea of the attractive premium through a reduction in collection, but unfortunately Mr Van den Berg said it even though it does not have the effect we had hoped for. The high discount is not paid by a care cost saving. No, the high discount is paid by people who are not at a collectivity or who have a lower discount. These are the people with a small wallet, who have to pay for the discount of others through a higher premium. For example, they pay the discount for students and employees who are affiliated to such a collectivity. Of course, that's totally crooked. I understand the proposal, but my group does have questions and concerns about making health-related agreements and about the consequences and possible alternatives for people on low incomes. The government agreement also stresses the importance of prevention. So you and I find each other in the idea that more attention should be paid to a healthy lifestyle, encouraging healthy choices, but also with an explicit place for mental health. I see an excellent role for employers, who can develop vitality programmes or anti-smoking programmes for their employees. This has advantages for employees, because they are healthier, but also for the employer who can count on less absenteeism and for the insurer, which therefore has lower care costs. Abolishing the collection discount seems to be a step in the opposite direction. If this incentive does not work through the cross-subsidisation, as I mentioned in my introduction, can the Minister indicate what alternative plans he has to make care-related agreements between collections and health insurance companies and thus encourage this? And how is he going to motivate insured people to join larger collections and how does he keep them attractive, even if the discount is abolished? Mr. Chairman. For D66 it is important that there is a clear insurance market, so that everyone in the Netherlands can make a well informed choice. We have already mentioned this a number of times in previous debates. Because of the huge amount of insurance there is a "polisjungle," which has made the offer for insured people unfathomable for years. The Minister expects that after the abolition of the discount on collection, the policy offer will decrease. That is a potentially beneficial side effect, but as far as I am concerned we are not going to leave it at that. I would like to hear from the Minister how he is going to actively use this effect in order to tackle this problem with the policy jungle actively. I'd like to hear a response. The abolition of the collection discount also means abolishing the discount on municipal policies. People who are affiliated to a municipal policy are mainly people with a socio-economically vulnerable position. In this particular group, I would like us to do everything we can to focus prevention and lifestyle programmes. The health gap between people with a minimum social income and those with an average or higher income is enormous. Can the Minister indicate the effect of abolishing the discount on this group? Has the Minister considered using additional incentives for this group? I see many advantages when people with low incomes are insured at a municipality policy. How does the Minister see this? What benefits does he recognise? Can the Minister also reflect on the functioning of municipal policies when it comes to health promotion? How can we promote its operation, with or without a collectivity discount? I would also like to comment on this. The continuous evaluation of the policies we are developing together here is a great asset. But if something doesn't work, we have to stop. As far as I am concerned, the instrument is under discussion today and not the objective. Effectively proven prevention and lifestyle programmes remain important for D66, precisely in order to reduce those previously mentioned health differences. In my view, the proposal currently lacks alternatives to incentives for broad-based prevention in society. Without these alternatives, I fear that existing health-related agreements will diminish. I'm considering a motion on this. Mr. Chairman. When I cycle from South to North Groningen, in the city and therefore not in the province, I all meet different people. Unfortunately, because of where they come from, where they live and what they deserve, they all have a different health perspective. D66 wants to actively combat these health inequalities. I challenge the Minister to work on this with me and to make what we are doing tonight a contribution to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-11.u11	Ms Paulusma said she was curious about what the minister saw about the effectiveness of municipal policies. I have a question for Mrs Paulusma. What would she think was effective? What am I supposed to think about? What should a city policy lead to?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-11.u12	I specifically asked about the effectiveness of the municipality's policy when it comes to health promotion. We see that a number of municipalities offer a collectivity discount in their insurance to residents. Some don't. I wonder what the difference is between the municipalities and what they need in a municipality policy to continue to promote health, especially in this vulnerable group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-11.u13	I liked it very much that Mrs Paulusma said: I still support the goal, but unfortunately the instrument did not work. We wholeheartedly support that. Mrs Paulusma also mentioned the polisjungle. I have just spoken about the twin policies, which are actually the successor of clone policies. Some policies have an extra high own risk. I also talked about budget policies. That sounds nice, but in practice those budget policies are not used by people who think: I'm so healthy, I don't need it all. They are just used by people with a small wallet who then find out that they don't get the care they actually need. Budget policies are at least a thorn in our eye. I wonder if that also applies to Mrs Paulusma.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-11.u14	D66 would very much like a clear offer, so that people know what they're choosing. We would also like the offer to show solidarity. That is why I think it is important that we stop with the instrument we are talking about tonight. This is mainly because of the question of solidarity. As far as I am concerned, we are also looking at the total range of policies.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-11.u15	We are going to listen to Mr Hijink of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-11.u16	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It has been known for some time that many people who think they are cheaper off with a collectivity discount are not at all. They come true. You get a discount, but only after the premiums have been increased. Whatever happens is that other people's premiums have been substantially increased first to pay your discount. When introducing the collectivity discount, the idea was that health insurers would make agreements with organisations to reduce the cost of care, for example by investing in prevention. Everyone knows by now that very little has happened. The system has created even more different policies and a policy jungle that still doesn't want to get smaller. That word has passed before. The figures say enough as far as the SP is concerned. More than 10 million people are insured by a form of collectivity. The number of collections has risen to more than 47.000. That means that every billiard association has made an appointment with an insurer. The pool club of Winschoten therefore makes an appointment with Menzis, purely on financial grounds. No way that Menzis goes to the billiard club to have a conversation about the right attitude at billiards and how to reduce care costs. That is, of course, total nonsense. It's very wise that we should stop this nonsense. The collectivity discount was and will remain a marketing and PR instrument. The discount is for insurers a way to bind people, via the billiard association, through the HEMA or whatever. The SP would like to know from the Minister when we will stop this policy jungle. I also heard it earlier: we have the budget policy, the refund policy, the policy in kind, a policy of the HEMA. I've only brought the survey with me. We have a whole battery of different insurers. Then you think, "Great, freedom of choice." But in practice, it appears that the four major insurers dominate 90% of the healthcare market. People who are thinking about moving from the HEMA to Anderzorg, or from Silver Cross to FBTO, I'll mention just a few examples that actually change within the same group. It doesn't really matter what you do in this whole system.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-11.u17	What doesn't matter?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-11.u18	What did I say?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-11.u19	You meant to say it doesn't matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-11.u20	It doesn't matter very much. Did I really say a very bad word? It doesn't matter very much whether you're bitten by the dog or by the cat. That's how many people feel about this, of course. They absolutely do not want to go under the Christmas tree to find whether they want to belong to the HEMA, UMC, Univé or by name. No, they just want affordable care. And they want that care to be reimbursed if they need care, and that they can also go to the hospital or to the doctor nearby. I have never spoken to anyone on the street who said: how nice that we can choose between different health insurance companies; I always feel like looking again in the autumn where I can save a tenner. No, people just want it to be handled properly. For this reason, the SP is still a strong supporter of a national health fund, because that would allow us to organise it much better. Much less bureaucratic and much closer to the people. A thick line through the bureaucracy, a thick line through the commercials and a thick line through the terrible market forces. We simply want everyone who needs it to receive care and be reimbursed. This can be done with an income-dependent premium. But, of course, it would be even better if we were to finance care through taxes. That saves a lot of fuss, and that also saves the caregivers a lot of interference from the insurers, who too often sit on the doctor's seat. Finally, a point about the municipality policy, a health insurance that many municipalities offer, precisely because people can no longer pay the bill. They then seek health insurance from the municipality, so that they can come out. Of course, that sounds super good and very noble, but the right question is how effective that really is. Some municipalities don't give a discount at all. Some municipalities offer a policy where all kinds of horns and bells hang on to which people are not waiting at all, but for which they pay. Those people are not cheaper in the end than with any other insurance. So my question to the Minister is exactly what is the point and the effectiveness of the municipal policy. If we stop the collection discount, what possibilities does the Minister see to compensate this group of people for any higher price they will have to pay for the health insurance if they can no longer go to the municipality, or if they can no longer avail themselves of this discount? We believe that the abolition of the discount on collection is sensible and very good, but we would not like the people who still have a municipal policy to suffer. They should be compensated, for our part, either through the municipality or through, for example, the increase in the healthcare allowance. I'd like to hear from the Minister if he's open to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-11.u21	Thank you. Then Mrs Westerveld from the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-11.u22	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Solidarity should be the basis of our concern, solidarity between sick and healthy, between poor and rich. But it is not, because its own payments are far too high to speak of genuine solidarity. And it is the people with little money who are disproportionately hard hit by their own contribution. It's people who are sick who have to pay more. It's women who spend more money on care. They are people with mental problems who sometimes have to pay twice their own risk for the same treatment. I do not find it strange that there are more than a million care avoidrs in the Netherlands, precisely because of this high own contribution. It's not weird, but it's embarrassing that your health depends on your wallet and that you live in good health 15 years longer if you have more money. I also find it embarrassing that, if we know that people avoid care because of the costs and tens of thousands of people do not have health insurance, the top drivers of those same health insurance companies are making money. I know we're talking about a specific law today and we're not evaluating the whole system, but I have to say this is what market forces do in the care. Let's go deal with that, please. Mr. Chairman. I'm moving on to the law. In addition to the high own contribution, there are two mechanisms that artificially keep the health care premiums for healthy people low: the collectivity discount and the voluntary own risk. At the same time, these are two instruments that allow insurers to apply risk selection. Risk selection is one of the major threats to solidarity in our system: insurers who try to bring in as many healthy insured people as possible to make money, or keep people with poor health out of the door as much as possible because they are an annoying cost. There are two ways to apply risk selection: with the root or with the stick. You can simply refuse people on the basis of criteria such as age, chronic illness or other expensive condition. Fortunately, this is prohibited for basic insurance, but it is still allowed for supplementary insurance. Another form of risk selection is with the root. Then you don't keep expensive health insurance companies out of the door, but you try to lure as many healthy people as possible to your insurance. That's exactly what happens to the collectivity discount. People with a good job can get a discount on their monthly premium via collectivity. That discount is paid by the rest. The same also applies to the voluntary own risk. This is also a way of making very healthy people contribute a little less to the total insurance pool, which means that people with chronic illness or illness have to pay a slightly higher premium again, in addition to the risk that they have already lost. That's what you see in the commercials. Insurers spend tens of millions on advertising, which is actually always aimed at raking the healthy people in. Mr. Chairman. A discount on the premium for one, which is financed by the increase in the premium for the other, we call cross-subsidisation. A reduction in the premium may be justified in exceptional cases, for example if the reduction results in people living healthier lives and a total reduction in the cost of care. The savings in the cost of care will then benefit the insured. For a long time this was the thought behind the collectivity discount. Specific arrangements could be made for specific groups of insured persons, e.g. prevention. People in the collectivity benefit from agreements on prevention and become healthier. As a result, they make less care costs and the savings on healthcare costs are then returned to the people in the collection. Unfortunately, however, a number of colleagues said that this kind of agreement is not being made. I found Mr Hijink's billiard club an excellent example. The discount for one is now paid with a storage for the other. If we look closely at collectivity, we can see that it consists almost exclusively of employers' collectives. Employers take out an insurance policy on behalf of employees and can thus obtain a discount on the premium. The employer can do something extra for the employee, but the rest of the insured must pay the bill. This also works perfectly for insurers, because they can choose good employers so that they can insure as many highly educated, rich people as possible. People you make money from as an insurance company and for which you make little money. That's risk selection with the root: paid for by cross-subsidisation. It is a good thing that the cabinet wants to tackle this and that it sees that premium differentiation, especially if the proceeds go mainly to healthy and rich people, is unfair. But it is problematic that it took six years for a bill to be passed. Six years ago, there was research showing that there was cross-subsidisation and that the discount could not be justified. In fact, there was only one discount that could be justified. Although the people of the municipal policies received a much lower discount than employees, the idea behind the municipal policies is, of course, desirable. In order to strengthen solidarity in the system, it is not a bad idea for municipalities to receive a discount for residents with the lowest incomes. I read in the explanatory statement that it was so low compared to the worker's discount that they even paid a net premium. It's called a discount, but eventually you lost even more under the line. In this way, the municipality policy also becomes cheaper when abolishing the collectivity discount. I would like to ask the Minister if he can give us some figures on this. How big was the storage that people with a city policy had to pay? And by how much is that city policy going to be cheaper? Mr. Chairman. The Minister seems to argue in the explanatory statement that the abolition of the collectivity discount is also beneficial for the municipality policy. But if he thinks that's desirable, why doesn't he go one step further? What do you mean, we don't let the city policy collectivity discount exist? At the moment when the municipality and the insurer agree to a discount for people with a smaller scholarship, there is no objection to that, is there? And if insurers want to give the poorest a discount from their social role, isn't that a good thing? There will therefore be cross-subsidisation, but in a way that pays rich for poor. That seems to me to be only positive.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-11.u23	If you do that everywhere, you actually increase the health allowance for the lowest incomes. That is a separate question and we can discuss it separately. What I am concerned about in Mrs Westerveld's proposal is the following. Suppose the region still wants to think about it, then it may be that one municipality does and the other municipality doesn't. In the interruption, it was the other way around. You're gonna get uneven coats, aren't you? Should we not make very different arrangements for certain categories of people instead of leaving it to the municipalities?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-11.u24	When I asked the question, Mrs Van den Berg said: shouldn't you, for example, increase the healthcare allowance for certain groups? If there's a majority for that, let's do it right away. This proposal is indeed for the poorest. This is indeed a way of ensuring that people who have little money to spend can still get a discount. This is an amendment tabled by Mrs Ellemeet and Mrs Kuik. That is why we have tabled that amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-11.u25	I don't hear a response yet. Suppose Amsterdam does and Arnhem doesn't, then you still have unequal coats and the people in Arnhem who are also poor pay for the people in Amsterdam. That's what I'm talking about by "unsightly beams."
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-11.u26	The idea of care is, of course, that there is solidarity, so we all contribute to the costs. It is the principle that the people who have more money to spend also pay a little more. That principle has been completely undermined. That's why we're handling this bill. I understand that Mrs Van den Berg says that one municipality might do it and the other does not. But that is, of course, already the idea behind the various insurances that exist: that one has it and the other doesn't. Even as an individual, you are cheaper off with one insurer than with the other. I understand her point and I am also very open to the idea that we can take generic measures to help the poorest with their care costs. But I do not think the argument is entirely valid for the amendment that has been tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-11.u27	One more point. First of all, I would like to express some resistance to the remark that rich people pay for poor people. That is completely gone; of course it is not. We pay the premium, the policy and our own risk. This is against €2,000, but on average we spend €6,200 per insured person. This is because people with more income are still making a significant contribution to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-11.u28	Did you have another question?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-11.u29	Yes. I'm just gonna come back to the city policy. Mrs Westerveld says some of the municipalities aren't doing it right now. No, but they don't wallow their damage burden on other residents. The point is, in my view, once again, I should also like to hear from the Minister that the municipalities that have taken out a policy and have a certain burden of damage are now receiving a discount which means that they do not pay all the burden of damage indirectly. It's brought up by all those people in other cities.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-11.u30	I understand Mrs van den Berg's argument, but I do not think it is entirely right in this context. With this amendment, we are trying to contribute to the costs of the poorest people, the people with the lowest incomes. Mrs van den Berg does not want that and says: then one does and the other does not. I understand that point in itself, but I do not think that is an argument for not doing it for everyone. The idea behind this amendment is that we are trying to help these people in as many places as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-11.u31	I think the criticism is justified. We seek solidarity in care, in a nationwide system with insurers. As far as the SP is concerned, they should not exist at all. Anyway, they're here. The solidarity that exists and needs to remain, you prefer not to outsource to municipalities. That is, of course, the major disadvantage of the amendment tabled by GroenLinks and the PvdA. Depending on the municipality in which you live, you may or may not receive a discount on your health insurance. That is also why I propose that, if that discount disappears, compensation should be sought by increasing the healthcare allowance. You can say that's also a worthless system, with surcharges and so on. Anyway, there is. In any case, it is more honest because it affects all the people who cannot pay their care costs right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-11.u32	In itself, I agree with Mr Hijink, because we simply do not have a blissful system. The SP leader and our party are, of course, sufficiently critical of the current way in which the healthcare system operates and the way in which lap tools are used to contribute to the collection and affordability of the system. Yes, of course we should go to a completely different system, but I wonder if the idea of raising the health allowance for a group of people can count on a majority. If that is the case, let us start immediately with proposals to that effect. However, with this amendment to the law we are debating, we are trying to work on the system to ensure that we can still do something for the group that has the most difficult financial situation, so that they do not pay even higher premiums for their care costs.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-11.u33	I can follow that reasoning. This sounds sympathetic in itself, but the result is, as Mrs Van den Berg rightly says, that a beneficiary in municipality A is going to contribute to the premium reduction of a beneficiary in municipality B. You can say that this is the case now and then, but that is undesirable as far as we are concerned. It is also undesirable to have to maintain the discount on collection, which we have never seen anything about, in order to be able to organise this. You should say: if the city wants to do something, it can accommodate people anyway. And if the Minister wanted to do something about us, he would have to do something about it through the care allowance.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-11.u34	I agree with the latter.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-11.u35	Okay. Hold that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-11.u36	I would have stayed at the city policy. I was talking about cross-subsidisation. We have tabled this amendment because inflation is rising rapidly and because people with little money are being disproportionately hard hit by rising prices, while measures to compensate consumers are not reaching this group as well. The city policy is an instrument with which people with a small wallet can be reached. Mr. Chairman. I have a number of questions for the Minister on this point. How much does the Minister expect municipalities to have to pay extra because the collectivity discount falls away? How will the Minister financially support the municipalities? And why is it that a few percent of the municipalities don't have a municipal policy at all? Finally, the Minister expects the healthcare premium to increase by €180 next year. How much more does the Minister expect those insured with the municipal policy to pay extra now that the collectivity discount is also abolished? Mr. Chairman. Then about the voluntary own risk. The main reason for the cabinet to abolish the collection discount is cross-subsidisation. The premium discount cannot be justified by a reduction in the cost of care. Collectivity does not lead to healthier people, which reduces the cost of care. So, what's next? It will not be a real surprise to anyone: the same applies to the voluntary own risk. That is also one of the conclusions of Mrs Remmerswaal's PhD research, a very good researcher. It has painfully revealed that our health care system does not show solidarity between men and women either. All costs related to pregnancy, birth, contraception, etc. are borne on the woman. Diagnosis also takes much longer for women. In addition, this diagnosis is often not good. These are all reasons why women make more money. Mr. Chairman. Women in this country pay more for care costs, while we know that the quality of care is lower for women. That is not exactly a matter of solidarity. But in combination with the voluntary own risk, this becomes even more problematic, because Mrs Remmerswaal's PhD research shows that the voluntary own risk does not lead to less care costs. That's actually an important condition for a discount. Because you get a discount because you're going to behave healthier and that discount follows health benefits, but at the voluntary own risk the opposite happens. The discount is given to people who already have little care costs. The whole idea of our Health Insurance Act is that sick and healthy together pay the care costs, but because of the voluntary own risk, the balance shifts further from healthy to sick. Because the total burden of disease remains the same, insurers need the same amount of money to pay for it. If you give a discount on the one hand, you have to increase the price somewhere else. Thus, people who do not have a voluntary own risk pay a premium discount for people with a voluntary risk. Mr. Chairman. Who are the people who benefit from this? Research by Nivel shows that they are young men with high education, a high income and with good health. A very specific group which is thus favoured by the voluntary own risk. It is women, people with less money, with practical training and poor education who pay the discount for this very small group of men. This means that the voluntary risk is also a sexist measure that strengthens inequality. Mr. Chairman. I have tabled an amendment to remove the voluntary risk. I am very curious to know what the Minister thinks, because there is nothing about voluntary own risk included in the coalition agreement. It is a budget-neutral measure that further strengthens solidarity in the system. The removal of the voluntary own risk does not have to take another six years. We can make the system fairer today.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-11.u37	And Mrs Westerveld's and Mrs Ellemeet's amendments have No. Nine... nine... nine... nine... nine... nine... nine... nine... nine... nine... nine... nine... nine... nine... nine... nine... nine... nine... nine.. nine... nine... nine... nine...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-11.u38	I share Mrs Westerveld's analysis that the higher voluntary own risk leads to some sort of selection at the gate. But does Mrs Westerveld agree with the CDA that the risk settlement is still not working optimally? Because if it were, this shouldn't have this effect.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-11.u39	I would like to ask Mrs van den Berg if she could explain this a little further.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-11.u40	By means of the risk settlement, we agreed on the following. You have different groups of people, where it is calculated between themselves that the insurer gets more money for people who are chronically ill. But in practice, you can see that it is still rewarding to avoid chronically ill. If the risk settlement were to work perfectly, it shouldn't really matter what the insurer's file looks like. I have previously shown an overview of an investigation, which showed the profits per insured person. With smaller insurers it was €25 and with larger perhaps €75, but some foreigners, where the money also goes abroad, were at €250. So will Mrs Westerveld in the debate we will have on this in a few months' time support our proposal to further improve the risk balance?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-11.u41	I do not know exactly what we will be supporting in the debate in a few months' time, but I share Mrs van den Berg's analysis. Not for nothing did I make the point in my own contribution that a number of insurers are mainly trying to bring in healthy people. On the other hand, people with chronic disabilities can even be refused supplementary insurance. This, of course, also undermines the solidarity of the system.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-11.u42	Fine. Mrs Kuik from the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-11.u43	Mr. Chairman. Things have already been said about the charm and the whims of our health insurance system. I won't repeat it. Today we are talking about abolishing the collectivity discount. Let me begin by saying that we are in favour of this. That is the point we have had. Because cross-subsidisation is undesirable and does not, in practice, do what Mrs van den Berg has already clearly described in her term of office. At the same time, discounts on the supplementary insurance are of course maintained. A number of questions have been asked about this too. I would like to add a few words to that. At the same time, it remains possible to agree on, for example, prevention between health insurers and collections. An insurer may also pay money to a collectivity. The question has been asked as to how much one can call that "solidar" and whether that is not also a wash nose. At the same time, I also understand employers who say: "I can be shown to contribute to reducing the burden of illness. I have a demonstrably low absenteeism. Wouldn't that be a good thing?" So, apart from that collectivity discount, could you not facilitate, stimulate or make it attractive with a carrot, also financially? Mr. Chairman. Another question I have is about the city policy. Some people are critical. Those who say: one municipality then pays for another municipality, or one resident pays for that municipality policy. At the same time, we do not live in an ideal world in which we are dealing with an ideal care system. So we also want to keep what is and feels right in this discount. That was my motivation to table this amendment together with Mrs Ellemeet van GroenLinks. I can see the disadvantages, but I can see the advantages. I would therefore like to know from the Minister: how does he view these advantages? Does he see them too? What does it mean if we completely abolish these municipal policies? And are there any alternatives, such as the alternatives presented by Mr Hijink of the SP? In fact, I can see that health insurance for people with a very small wallet is becoming more and more difficult to pay. Although hard work is being done to avoid debt in this category, there are also more and more care avoidrs. It's coming from somewhere. People with lower incomes are already struggling to pay the premium. Many people with chronic illness are in low-income groups for a reason. That's how it sustains itself. Mr. Chairman. Those were actually my questions. I'll keep it limited, too, because I won't be there for the answer. I follow them at home, or at least in a different place than here, so that I can take them into account in the motions and amendments that are going to be tabled. Many thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-11.u44	And wish you a safe return trip.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-11.u45	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-11.u46	Then Mr Van der Staaij of the Political Reformed Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-11.u47	Mr. Chairman. It was such a great idea: a collectivity discount with the aim of achieving lower healthcare costs through health care agreements. This could lead to a lower premium for the insured in that collective. Unfortunately, that doesn't work that way. It has been mentioned a number of times: there is cross-subsidisation. Insurers increase the premium for all insured persons and give insured persons a collective discount. We ask the government how it is that the goal of the reduction in collection has never been achieved. Nearly 90% of the collectives now have health-related commitments in the field of health prevention, such as the provision of cessation-of-smoking programmes. Are these agreements themselves not effective? Is it due to the low number of insured persons per collective? Or are we expecting results too soon? Was there an incorrect assessment made at the time of entry into force? In short, we are interested in a reflection on how it did not bring what was expected of it. Mr. Chairman. The proposal is to abolish the discount on collection, but the collections can continue to exist. Only, the discount on the premium as an incentive to encourage insured persons to join a collective disappears. It remains therefore possible for employers, municipalities and insurers to make health-related agreements in the areas of prevention and health promotion. Many steps have also been taken in recent years to reach specific health-related agreements that contribute to healthy living and vitality. It would be a shame, of course, to see that in the reaction of the government in the written exchange of views if the efforts would suddenly stop and collectivities completely disappear. So our question is: how can collections with health-related agreements continue to be attractive to insurers, municipalities, employers and insured persons? We also ask how the government promotes the promotion of prevention and sustainable employability by insurers and employers outside collections. How does the government make this financially attractive? Can we expect additional proposals from the government on this point? After all, it is in line with the government's commitment to increase prevention and health promotion. Is the government prepared to examine what different options for financial instruments exist or can be developed to promote prevention and health promotion? Mr. Chairman. Collectivity discount could also be applied to the municipality policy that many municipalities offer; it has already been extensively discussed. Our question is also how it remains attractive for municipalities to meet social minima in this way. What is the point of collectivity for municipalities? Does the government think that this bill will lead to fewer municipal policies? Finally, Mr President. The SGP shares the view that cross-subsidisation is undesirable between insured persons inside and outside collectives, or between collectives with a lower and higher discount. Does the abolition of the discount on collection mean that the premium for insured persons will be reduced without a collectivity or with a low discount on collection? How is it prevented that insurers keep the premium for these insured persons above what is strictly necessary? What are the possibilities of monitoring this and of intervening if this does not happen? Mr President, I too have managed to stay within the time. That's because a lot of the same questions are being asked tonight. At the beginning, when the CDA and D66 were talking, I almost thought that might have been our input. Well, that's kind of pleasing, too. D66 looks very surprised now. But if that's the case, that can be said. It's not every day.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-11.u48	If you had coordinated that, we could have just signed up one speaker today. You should have been.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-11.u49	That was, of course, the hunchback. That's exactly what I wanted to stimulate. I have noticed that this has gradually become a little less so, whereas in a gray past it was quite common for one Member of Parliament sometimes to speak on certain subjects on behalf of six or seven parties. They said: we actually have a bit of the same input. So maybe we can go that way again.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-11.u50	I can't remember that, but we should see if we can enter it. We are going to see whether Mrs Tielen is in on this or whether she might be venting a different opinion. She can also just say: I join the rest. It's possible, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-11.u51	Mr President, I can tell you that I am not going to complete those eight minutes. Mr. Chairman. When preparing for this debate, I was reminded of the shows of Oprah Winfrey: you have a discount, you have a discount, you have a discount, everyone has a discount! That is also the feeling that the collectivity discount is now calling for: everyone a discount, i.e. a fake discount. The previous speakers have already explained how that would actually work. I myself, like millions of other Dutch people, also have a collectivity discount on my basic insurance. The intention of the discount option was to generate savings, but in practice it turns out to be a fake discount. The VVD therefore welcomes this bill, which has been drafted by Minister Van Ark. The bill ensures that improper reasons for reductions in premiums no longer play a role in insurance for the basic package. This brings the so-called risk solidarity back into balance. In other words, the basis of our healthcare system, namely that healthy people pay for the sick, remains better intact. As a VVD, we are enthusiastic about the health, prevention and lifestyle programmes that collectivities such as associations, I mention Mr.Hijink's billiard association and employers can meet with insurers. There are good examples of cooperation between employers and insurers, for example. In Overijssel, Vitaal Vechtdal is a good example. The additional insurance for employees and employers is a way of getting good programmes together with local authorities and health organisations in the region. That kind of good initiative is not affected by this bill. It should be, because the supplementary insurance can still be filled in with collections. I hope that's true. I ask the Minister to reflect on that. I also very much hope that this ban on collectivity discounts will finally be a starting point for reducing the huge and unclear policy offer. A number of previous speakers have already spoken of a 'jungle'. A jungle actually has a very positive value in me, but that's not what we mean. It's unclear and big. Insured people no longer see the forest because of the trees and are, as far as I am concerned, also limited in their freedom of choice when it comes to health insurance. We think it is important that people have control over their healthcare policies and their care costs. In my opinion, this legislative proposal is a step closer to this grip, because the expected by-catch or the side effect of the catch are also used for different terms. This is a simplification of the policy offer. Can the Minister explain how he is going to ensure that people regain control over the choice of their health insurance?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-11.u52	Following Mrs Tielen's statement, I am very curious to see whether the VVD supports the fact that we really need to get rid of twin policies and budget policies and extra high own risks.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-11.u53	I just argued that there's a huge amount of care policies. They are also very similar, so people don't really know what belongs to one or the other anymore. I'd like to get rid of that, but I'm wondering if we should get rid of that by now. Perhaps Mrs van den Berg's next question is whether we should ban it in the law. On the contrary, I find it interesting to see whether what the Minister predicts, namely that health insurers themselves are going to work with it, have room and how he is going to see it. If that does not go as well as we predict, then perhaps we should take other measures. But I don't think it's necessary to set a rule for that right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-11.u54	I have to conclude that Mrs Tielen says: I see the problems of this kind of twin policies, budget policies and an extra high own risk, but I do not want to change anything about it at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-11.u55	What I think we're going to change with this bill is to ban the collection discounts. I'm sure this will have its effect. I don't think you should change too much at the same time if you don't have to. So let's see if it's necessary first. Then I would like to speak to Mrs van den Berg to take a new step if necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-11.u56	I'll take Mrs. Tielen to that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-11.u57	I'm sure she can. I'm always open to that. Thank you. Well, Mr. Chairman, thank you, actually.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-11.u58	Very good. The last speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mrs Den Haan from the Den Haan Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-11.u59	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am also making my contribution on behalf of the DENK Group. Mr. Chairman. Unfortunately, the original thoughts of the care collections did not come off well. We just talked about that. However, the healthcare collections in their present form have a positive effect on content. For example, in the good examples you can see that employers as well as patient organisations with health-related collections can focus on the health and vitality of their respective supporters in collaboration with health insurers. An employer with, for example, a relatively high number of smoking employees or with a higher than average percentage of overweight workers may, when there is a care collective with sufficient participation, develop an active policy together with the health insurance provider to counter the negative consequences. But the crux is of course in sufficient participation. When few employees participate in the healthcare collective, it is impossible for the employer and the insurer to use good policies, especially prevention. And that's what it's all meant for after all. Many of the costs involved are also paid out of the employee's supplementary insurance. If this employee is insured elsewhere in terms of supplementary insurance, it will therefore be difficult if not impossible to obtain the financing of such a route on prevention. It is also questionable whether there is sufficient cover for prevention programmes or intervention in the insurer where the employee is insured. Within a collective health insurance that many employees participate in, this funding can often be found. The problem faced by insurers and thus also by their collections for a long time is to encourage the grassroots to participate in health-care-oriented collectivity. One of the most important means of achieving this is, of course, the reduction in basic insurance and supplementary insurance. Without that discount, you can see that it is difficult to connect employees to you, for example. Practice shows that insured persons are nevertheless guided by the premium and any discounts offered. This is an important reason why, in recent years, collective insurance has shown a downward trend, because the Internet and budget policies offer a much lower premium. We have just talked about this, but without the extras on, for example, prevention that a collective can offer. These are precisely the things that serve to preserve and improve health and vitality, as well as to reduce and shorten the loss of workers and employers. Moreover, we have just talked about it; it's a lot of repetition. These budget policies make sure that especially healthy and highly educated digitally skilled young people close these policies. These are insured persons with little cost to the insurer: a low burden of damage. This also really affects the solidarity of sharing the risk. What is the Minister going to do about these non-solidar budget policies? If we are to be able to provide adequate preventive rather than curative support for people's health, we must be able to use the available opportunities. A good, substantive healthcare collective with sufficient participation is important for this. If there is no financial incentive to participate in a healthcare collective, how are we going to ensure that as many people as possible participate in care content? Mr. Chairman. I would like to ask the Minister to examine whether one, the reduction in health insurance, can remain there for the minima now covered, for example through municipal policies, and two, or whether the working costs scheme, the WKR, can be extended for employers. If an employer is given extra space and is also used in the WKR, an employer's contribution to the supplementary contribution may be paid for the participating insured employees. A small contribution can already lead to a significant increase in participation in collectivity. And three is the question of setting objectives and criteria for all other collections that are of a care nature, so that prevention is actually used, but also on pressure on healthcare procurement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-11.u60	At 8:15 p.m., we're gonna listen to the Minister's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-11.u61	I'm reopening. The Minister has the floor. I don't think we need to work nights with all of us.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-11.u62	I'll do my best, Mr. Chairman. I'm sorry I was a few minutes late, Mr. Chairman, just because all the folders had to be grouped together. I'm gonna be sent back in a few minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-11.u63	Very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-11.u64	Mr. Chairman. The Dutch healthcare system is characterised by solidarity, as has just been mentioned by your Chamber. This means that healthy people contribute to the cost of care for sick people. And that people with higher incomes pay more than people with lower incomes. Healthcare insurers are obliged to accept all insured persons for basic insurance and should not ask for a higher contribution to, for example, the elderly or the sick. However, the law allowed savings on care costs for a group of insured persons to be returned to those insured in the form of a discount on the premium, which now has a maximum of 5%. These savings can result from health-care agreements that make collectivity and health insurance companies, for example in the area of prevention. However, as has actually been mentioned by your entire Chamber, frequent and recent research shows that this objective is not being achieved. It is not the care-related agreements with cost savings that finance the collectivity, but the health insurance companies themselves do so through a storage. As a result, health insurers first increase the premium for all insured persons on a policy and then give this increase back to some in the form of a discount. In this respect, it has also been mentioned as a collectivity discount is a cigar from its own box, which disrupts the solidarity that we all share. After a long journey, it is the commitment to abolish this discount on basic insurance, with the collections being able to continue. I also expect them to survive. The bill abolishes the collectivity discount, not the collectivity. Mr Hijink has already mentioned that the number of collections and discounts is incredibly high and the average number of participants is less than 250. I don't know how many members have an average pool club, but they're average very small numbers overall. To sum up, the bill abolishes the discount on collectivity, because it does not achieve the goal and is, in fact, a fake discount and distorts solidarity. The bill leaves the collectivity untouched. Mr. Chairman. That brings me to the answer to the questions. First, I have two more general questions and then a number of questions, no doubt with some overlap, but we are going to see that, which are about the subject that has passed a lot: the municipal policies. Mr Van der Staaij asked a question about the expectations of the collection discount that sounds good on paper at the front and offers opportunities, but has not been fulfilled. What's that all about? The honest answer is that it is actually speculation. You know the whole route. In recent years, health insurers and the collections have been given ample opportunity to legitimise the discount on collectivity, in the sense that the discount is actually achieved by, for example, preventive measures within that collective. In doing so, you could argue that, for example, prevention has reduced costs in this collective and that a reduction is useful. This has not happened, not even after repeated encouragement. What it's all about is unclear. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Van den Berg asked: doesn't legislation now offer the possibility to counter cross-subsidise? As discussed, the aim of the collectivity discount is that health insurers have the possibility to return savings arising from health-related agreements and resulting results to the insured participants of that collective within a specific collective. Repeated research shows that this objective is not being achieved. This makes it a cigar from its own box, a fake discount, which disrupts solidarity. It is then up to health insurers themselves to determine the premium. The cross-subsidisation, that the discount of one is paid by the other, I find undesirable and therefore want to abolish it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-11.u65	Perhaps the Minister will come back to it, but what we have specifically said in this connection is: if we calculate what has been spent in the last ten years on a reduction in collection, it is towards the five billion. We wonder whether the Healthcare Authority will not be able to intervene or whether we will have to change the legislation in order to prevent this from happening in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-11.u66	The proposal now before us will allow the legislation to be amended. The EUR 5 billion that is the cross-subsidies was raised by others. It has already been mentioned that the average discount was 4%. About 60% of insured persons in the Netherlands have a form of collectivity. That 4% discount for one is paid by others.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-11.u67	Actually, the Minister says: this is water under the bridge; this happened, the porridge has been poured, there is nothing we can do about that 5 billion. But the Minister is also going to answer that the appointment of collections as such remains possible. How can we ensure that there will not be any cross-subsidisation, either directly or indirectly? Hence my question: should we make other arrangements in the Health Insurance Act to prevent this?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-11.u68	These collectives can continue to exist, for example for joint agreements in the field of prevention. An employer can also contribute to this. They can also continue to exist for specific supplementary insurance. There was also a question as to whether an employee could be required to take that supplementary insurance. The answer to that is no.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-11.u69	I'll just conclude that we're not gonna make it out tonight. It'll still be possible later. The Chamber is not about supplementary insurance. I'm worried about the fact that you can still have cross-subsidisation of one collectivity with other people who have standard supplementary insurance.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-11.u70	But that is up to the insurer and the collective itself. This is something other than basic insurance, where everyone is obliged to participate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-11.u71	But we can get into the situation where those who do not have supplementary collective insurance are going to pay the price for those who do have supplementary collective insurance. Then we're in exactly the same situation. Except the Chamber won't have anything to say about it. That's the difference.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-11.u72	Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the questions about the city policy. I shall start with the question put by Mrs van den Berg and others, namely: is the policy going to be cheaper for the minima? We need to realise that the abolition of the discount on collection contributes to the financial accessibility of care. Social minimums no longer pay for the high discount on collections for students and employees, for example. As you have probably seen, for the municipal policies, the average discount received is lower than the average discount paid at all to collectivities. Of course, that's different from one municipality to another. The social minimum policy is also a real policy of the municipality itself. But overall you saw that the discounts were lower than the average discount of the collectivity. An additional question was what the future of the municipality's policy is. For municipalities and health insurance companies it remains possible to agree a municipality policy. They can agree on, for example, debt reduction and unwanted care avoidance. Municipalities can also continue to provide a supplementary insurance contribution and the health insurance company can still give a premium discount on that supplementary insurance. What disappears is that social minima contribute to the high collectivity discount of other groups on basic insurance. There was a question whether I would like to enter into consultation with the health insurance companies about cheaper municipal policies. I don't think that's necessary. The aim is also to abolish the municipal policy collective for basic insurance. The abolition of this reduction in the collection rate is precisely a contribution to the financial accessibility of the care for the social minimums. They no longer pay for the average higher discount on collectivity for others, such as students and employees. There are also possibilities for the municipality to provide a contribution to the supplementary insurance and, as already mentioned, the health insurance company can also provide a premium discount on the supplementary insurance. Mrs Westerveld then asked for a numerical basis. How big was the storage that people with a city policy had to pay and how much is the city policy going to be cheaper? As you know, research shows that the average discount was very different between the different collections. The average discount for social minima with a municipal policy was relatively low, i.e. 2.8%. That was lower than the average reduction in collectivity. The average discount for collections was around 4% and was therefore even higher for some groups. Mrs Westerveld also asked how much the minister expects the municipalities to pay more after the abolition of the collectivity discount and how this is compensated. My expectation is not that municipalities will have to pay more. The abolition of the discount on collection contributes precisely to the financial accessibility of care. This has to do with the fact that the municipal policies had on average a lower discount than others. The participation in collections was incredibly high with those 47,000 collections, which were mentioned. An additional question from Mrs Westerveld was why some municipalities do not have a municipality policy. Municipalities have instruments and financial resources to provide financial tailor-made work for a citizen, a resident, a client. A municipal policy is one of the instruments they can use. As has just been argued, it is not the best solution for everyone. Therefore, some municipalities choose to use other instruments. Mr Van der Staaij asked how it remains attractive for municipalities to meet social minimums. There are still opportunities for municipal collections that contribute to financial accessibility. Municipalities may, for example, make a contribution to the supplementary insurance premium. I have already mentioned that health insurers can also give a premium discount on the supplementary insurance. In this way they can deliver good customisation, so that low-income people can always rely on accessible and high-quality care. Excuse me, Mr. Chairman. The questions have really been answered individually, so I have to look for them. I've already answered a number of questions. There were a lot of questions about the municipal policies. I think I've actually dealt with all the aspects. More questions have been asked about the precise discount rates and the possibilities of compensation. I think I've answered it with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-11.u73	I don't think a second term is necessary. Right?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-11.u74	I have a number of additional questions. This was the city policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-11.u75	Okay, you'll find more.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-11.u76	Excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-11.u77	You opened the bag just as well and something is coming out. The encore.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-11.u78	I have two supplementary questions from Mrs Van den Berg on the role of the NZa, the care authority. The NZa supervises the lawful implementation of the Health Insurance Act and of the health insurance policies by the health insurance companies. Healthcare insurers are not obliged to achieve a specific goal with a collectivity discount. They do have to abide by the rules for a collectivity discount, such as rules on the maximum height. I've already mentioned that. In the past it was 10% and later 5%. The NZa supervises this. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Van den Berg also asked whether the NZa could establish health-related criteria. The NZa has advised on framework conditions with regard to health care additional agreements in collective health insurance. These conditions will always have to be formulated in a general way, because collections differ. This creates legal uncertainty and is difficult to enforce. Therefore, the NZa has advised against legally anchoring criteria. Mr. Chairman. There were a number of questions about employers' collective activities and prevention. Mrs Paulusma asked what plans I have to make health-related agreements and to make sure that insured persons are in line with collectivities. It is a question of abolishing the reduction in the collection of basic insurance. As mentioned above, collections can simply continue to exist. It remains therefore possible for health insurers to make substantive agreements with, for example, employers or municipalities. They can focus on prevention, reducing disease loss or preventing debt problems. Health insurers are also allowed to provide a collectivity discount on the supplementary insurance, as has just been discussed. This means that collective insurance remains an option and remains potentially attractive to some insured persons with care-related agreements. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Tielen asked me to reflect on the fact that the bill should not affect health and prevention programmes. As has just been mentioned, employers have an important role to play in prevention, for example in the context of illness and employability. The abolition of the collectivity discount on basic insurance does not change that. Afterwards, employers can still focus on prevention. They can also do so by continuing to make health-related agreements with insurers. Mr. Chairman. In line with that, Mrs Den Haan asked: does the Minister want to set up health-care objectives so that prevention and care procurement are used? Although most of the collections have health-related agreements, i.e. almost 90%, or 89% to be precise, only a very small part suggests that they lead to some savings in healthcare costs. Care-related agreements therefore hardly lead to savings on healthcare costs. Other insured persons therefore pay for the reduction of the insured person in the collective. I've just qualified that as cigars from my own boxes. You did the same thing in the Chamber. It does not appear possible to include in the law criteria to be met by health-care agreements. I have just mentioned this with regard to the NZa. In 2017, she issued an opinion entitled "Zorginhoud inhoudcriteria in collective health insurance." It did not recommend that this be legally anchored, because it was difficult to implement. Do we want to continue to focus on the importance of prevention? Absolutely. But making specific arrangements through insurance is extremely difficult. In line with this, Mr Van der Staaij asked whether the government would like to examine what financial incentives for prevention exist outside of collections. My colleague, the U.S. Secretary of State, will be sending a letter to your Chamber shortly. I'd like to leave it at that now. Mrs Den Haan asked how we would ensure that as many people as possible continue to participate with care when there is no financial incentive. That is in line with the answer I just gave. There are still opportunities for collective agreements. For example, they can focus on additional prevention, disease failure, etc. Employers and municipalities can continue to encourage this in a variety of ways. This can also be done financially, by providing a contribution or a collectivity discount on that supplementary insurance. This is in line with a question from Mr Van der Staaij: how can collections be made attractive with care-related agreements? I am referring to the reply that has just been given. Then I come to a number of questions about insurance choices and the diversity of insurance. The word "jungle" came along several times, with positive and negative connotations. Among others, Mr Hijink and Mrs Paulusma asked how the Minister intends to deal effectively with the policy jungle. I think it is important that insured people really have something to choose from in the health insurance market. That is why the policy offer, especially the diversity, but also the distinctiveness of the offer, has continued attention. Mrs van den Berg also mentioned the twin policies, which offer almost the same or offer the same thing, but which are just under a different heading, and the confusion that arises. I expect that the number of collections will decrease after the abolition of the collection discount and that collections will disappear without any additional agreements. In any case, this can help in the direction of a clear policy offering. This does not necessarily appear in the scheme that Mr Hijink showed, which includes all the different denominators under which insurance is offered, but possibly something about the diversity of policies. I also informed your Chamber yesterday about the past transition season and also about the results of the various studies that focus on this transition, the policy offer and the choice process. I would like to use these insights to start the conversation with the health insurance companies, because they still appear to offer policies that differ only very little from others. That's not helping. This is also in line with the comments that have been made in that study, namely that it is actually too unclear for a significant proportion of insured persons to make a good choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-11.u79	We have been talking for years about the policy jungle and the huge supply in the various insurances, policies and collections. There are countless variants, so people really don't see the forest through the trees anymore. I would like to ask the Minister the following. Wouldn't it be wise just to examine how much people are still waiting for this? To just explore how many people are really satisfied, happy and happy with the idea that they should choose from all these variants, or that they might just want something else, namely a clear, decent insurance that is crystal clear for everyone? Isn't that a lot more logical? Would the Minister be willing to do such an investigation?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-11.u80	A lot of that data is already there, as I just said. However, as a reflection we have that a non-insignificant part of the insured person finds it difficult to make a choice, which translates into a form of dissatisfaction, because one would like clarity. I do not think that additional research is necessary for this at the moment, because we know the diversity of the offer and we also know how much people are or are not able to make their own informed choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-11.u81	I think that some good suggestions have just been made, for example by Mrs Van den Berg. You should stop with the clone policy, you should stop with the twin policies that are so very similar and you should stop with the budget policies. One could ask the question: should we still want a distinction between a policy in kind and a refund policy? There are so many policies and variations on policies that you have to have completed almost four university courses to see the difference between them. Would it not be wise to put the question to the people: do we still have to go through with this charade or do we have to do it in another way? I ask the Minister to carry out that investigation properly for once. Are people so happy with the hugely complicated system we have now?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-11.u82	Without doing anything with the terminology of the charade, I want to stick to the system we have at the moment. I have no intention of changing that. We have a system of insurance companies that offer a policy and citizens who can choose between insurers and between policies every year. If we use that as a starting point, as I have said, I do not intend to change that, then the follow-up question is whether it helps that there are policies that are not at all distinctive, such as the twin policies. I can quietly say that I look at that with frowned eyebrows. But, for example, the budget policy offers insurers and care providers the opportunity to make real agreements about quality, healthcare, etc. That is precisely the purpose for which this system was set up. If the question is very broad whether we can change all those different policies.... budget policies, natural policies, twin policies......................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-11.u83	I would like to add my voice to the questions put by Mr Hijink. In any case, I am pleased that the twin-polis makes the Minister's eyebrows frown. With regard to budget policies, the Minister is right to say that healthcare providers can make very concrete agreements. But one of the problems is that the caregiver often doesn't know exactly what the care they can get. It is simply a question of lack of transparency as to what that budget policy means. In addition to Mr. Hijink's request, is the Minister prepared to take a closer look at that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-11.u84	Insurance companies must, of course, provide good information. That can be done in all kinds of ways, in conversation if necessary. There may also be telephone contact to explain the policy they offer and to answer the questions that someone who wants to take out a policy has about it. These may be questions like: can I contact my own hospital and my own doctor? I have certain medications or a certain medical history: what exactly does this mean to me? There's got to be a way out of this. However, with the diversity and with the system we have, it is up to the insurer and an insured person to jointly conclude a contract on it or not. I attach great importance to this system, including the possibility of, for example, the budget policy. As I have said, policies that do exactly the same, I am just using the term 'twin policy' that you have also mentioned, which only leads to more confusion and not to any improvement in the possibilities.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-11.u85	I want to support the Minister when he says he wants to maintain the system of health insurers and policies that people can choose from. The CDA would like to support the Minister in that. About the budget policies, the minister says that someone can call the insurance company to check exactly what's in it. These policies are often taken by people who are already more vulnerable and less mature. We have 2.5 million low-lettered people in this country. They see that policy and think "why do I have to take an expensive policy" because they don't all see it. I would ask the Minister again if he is prepared to look into that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-11.u86	I would be happy to look into that with a clear commitment, by the way. I do not intend to abolish the possibility of a budget policy. I would like to consult with the insurers once again: how do you ensure that you inform your potential client as well as possible about the ins and outs of each insurance policy, including the possibility of taking a budget policy?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-11.u87	Fine. Can we get to the second term yet?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-11.u88	I have one more question from Mrs van den Berg about chronically ill and risk-sharing. Does it pay to avoid chronically ill? The answer is that abolishing the collectivity discount does not have a direct impact on the risk settlement. I do agree with you that we are not ready to abolish the collection discount. Part of the solution also lies in further improving risk settlement, which further reduces the undercompensation that exists for certain groups of insured persons. I am very much prepared to play my part in this and will discuss this further in a subsequent letter on the risk settlement. I'll send it to your room for the summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-11.u89	We've noted that. Fine. Second term. Oh, yes, the two amendments to Nos. 8 and 9.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-11.u90	I'll take that one, one second. The amendment in part No. 8 is about maintaining the collectivity discount for the municipality policy. My appreciation of the amendment is that I advise against it. It maintains the collectivity discount for the municipality policy for social minima, but the goal of collectivity is not to achieve income solidarity. There are other policies for this, such as a health allowance. The aim was to return savings on healthcare costs, but repeated research shows that this goal is not achieved in the municipality policy either. As I have already mentioned, municipalities can continue to contribute to financial accessibility through collectivity, for example in the form of a premium for supplementary insurance.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-11.u91	Then there is the amendment to item No. 9.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-11.u92	The amendment in part No. 9 concerns the elimination of the voluntary own risk with the corresponding premium discount. I also advise against this amendment. The amendment eliminates the voluntary own risk, including the corresponding premium discount. However, this voluntary own risk can ensure cost awareness of insured persons. It thus contributes to the manageability of collective healthcare expenditure. In addition, insured people would like options. The voluntary own risk is an example of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-11.u93	With this answer, the Minister goes against an earlier part of his speech in which we talked about solidarity in the care sector. We were talking about the fact that we know who the people are who can voluntarily put their own risk at maximum. These are the people who have good health, who often deserve more, which means that we have more inequality in the system. That is why I do not understand so well that the Minister has discouraged the amendment we have tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-11.u94	I would like to comment on Mrs Westerveld's comment on the lack of solidarity; in other words, on the fact that, unlike the overall reduction in collectivity, the costs in this way increase for the other insured persons. I would like to refer to an extensive study of the CPB from 2019. The CPB has looked at the impact of the voluntary own risk. This showed that people without voluntary own risk contribute on average €3 to €6 per year to premium discount for people with a voluntary personal risk. In other words, €3 to €6 per year is up to €0.50 per month.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-11.u95	Very good. Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-11.u96	We know that the voluntary own risk is mainly for the benefit of a limited group, namely white highly educated young men. They mainly benefit from a high voluntary own risk. We know that another group often incurs high costs themselves. In this context, I would like to ask the Minister whether he agrees with me that we should make sure that the people who are already doing well do not benefit even more by putting their own voluntary risks at their highest level.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-11.u97	The discussion goes both ways. The debate is primarily about solidarity, about the reduction of one and what that means for the other. I just indicated that an individual's choice for a higher personal risk is voluntary. This has hardly any impact on the costs someone else has to pay. In 2019, the CPB calculated a maximum of €0.50 per month per insured person three years ago. We can talk about whether that's much or little, but I think that's very little. I don't want to take away that freedom and that choice. The people who opt for a higher own risk generally also have little care costs. Maybe they're avoiding a little more concern, too. There are suggestions for this too. The net impact on solidarity is therefore very limited. That's the calculation that was made.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-11.u98	That's great. So much for the first term. For the second term, I would like to give the floor to Mrs van den Berg from the CDA group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-11.u99	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for the answers and also for the commitment that he is going to look at the situation with regard to the risk settlement and what further improvements can be made. That's what we're looking forward to. Mr. Chairman. I said at the end of my speech that the CDA is concerned about three points: twin policies, budget policies and the high own risk that the Minister was just talking to Mrs Westerveld about. Mrs Paulusma has come up with a proposal on that last point, which I wholeheartedly support. I myself have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the draft law should contribute to a more transparent policy offering,]] [[Considering that the transition period 2021-2022 shows that 60 health insurances were offered in 2022 and 57 health insurances in 2021;]] [[Whereas the monitor of the Dutch Healthcare Authority (NZa) shows that health insurers still offer forms of "twin policies";]] [[Whereas the NZa considers the increase in the number of policies to be an undesirable development;]] [[Whereas this does not contribute to the clarity of the policy offer for insured persons;]] [[calls on the Government, together with the NZa, to explore the possibilities in the laws and regulations for adapting the definition of almost equal policies to make the policy offer more transparent, and to inform the Court of Justice about this for budgetary treatment of the budget 2023,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van den Berg and Mr Hijink.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35872-10]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-11.u100	Mr President, the second. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the basis of the health insurance system is solidarity between young and old and healthy and sick;]] [[Considering that the transition period 2021-2022 shows that more health insurance was offered and the monitor of the Dutch Healthcare Authority shows that health insurance companies are still offering budget policies;]] [[Whereas it is not always clear to insured persons that this is a policy with restrictive conditions;]] [[calls on the Government to investigate:]] [[the supply of budget policies in relation to the total supply of policies;]] [[why insured persons opt for a budget policy and whether that is conscious or unconscious;]] [[the impact of budget policies on the system and what it does with the solidarity of the health insurance system,]] [[and to inform the House of Representatives as soon as possible but gladly before the debate on the Health Insurance Act,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van den Berg and Mr Den Haan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35872-11]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-11.u101	I just heard the Minister say something about budget policies and their impact on solidarity. I still hear Mrs Van den Berg asking for additional research into this. Is Mrs Van den Berg aware that the premium paid to health insurance companies is only a fraction of the total contribution of an average Dutch household to care, and that it reflects solidarity in particular?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-11.u102	Two things. In my view, the discussion was not about budget policies, but much more about the high own risk. The Minister said that research shows that this has virtually no effect on solidarity; only €0.50 a month, if I remember correctly. I fully agree with Mrs Tielen that solidarity is at the root of the whole system, healthy for sick, young for old and higher incomes, but precisely in order to maintain that solidarity, I think it is very important that people feel this solidarity in their own policies and that they can understand the system. Hence the request for the Minister to look into this further. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-11.u103	Very good. Thank you. Then Mrs Paulusma from the group of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-11.u104	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for replying. Thanks for tonight's time, too. Of course, the Minister didn't make it 9 p.m. himself, but I appreciate the pace. I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there are significant differences in (healthy) years of life between Dutch people by level of education and income;]] [[noting that effective prevention and lifestyle programmes can promote health and can lead to (care) cost savings and reduced health inequalities;]] [[calls on the Government to monitor health-care agreements in collections and also to involve in this the extent to which proven effective prevention and lifestyle programmes are part of collective health insurance;]] [[calls on the government to engage with municipalities, employers and health insurers and identify alternative instruments to promote health-related agreements between insurance and collections for the benefit of inclusive but not limited to people with a minimum social income,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by members Paulusma, Tielen, Kuiken, Van der Staaij and Den Haan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35872-12]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-11.u105	Second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the government intends to reform the mandatory own risk;]] [[calls on the Government to investigate the extent to which the voluntary own risk leads to cross-subsidisation;]] [[calls on the government to include the effects on the voluntary own risk in the reform of the mandatory own risk,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by members Paulusma, Van den Berg, Van der Staaij and Den Haan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35872-13]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-11.u106	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-11.u107	Very good. Then Mr Hijink of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-11.u108	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I believe it was Mrs Paulusma who said earlier: things that do not work must be abolished. I very much agree. It is therefore a good thing that we now say goodbye to the collectivity discount in the Health Insurance Act. As far as I am concerned, it is also a good first step in the further dismantling of this Health Insurance Act, and we are going to work and build a system, a health system, which is more united, which is fairer and in which all people are assured of good care without the entire bureaucratic burden involved. I therefore hope that we will move on to a single national health fund whose funding, if possible, comes from taxes. Because we can't do it much more honestly than that. It is a strange time to do that, tonight at 9 p.m., but let this indeed be the first step. The care that we still have is in the city policy and the people who might get hurt if that discount goes away. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the abolition of the discount on collection for some of the people with a municipal policy could mean an additional premium increase;]] [[calls on the Government to examine how these people can be fully compensated for this increase in contributions by other means, and to inform the Chamber thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Hijink, Mr Westerveld and Mr Kuik.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35872-14]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-11.u109	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would also like to congratulate you on the speed of this debate. Mr. Chairman. I have another question about the amendments. We have tabled two amendments. With one amendment, we will continue to make it possible for municipalities to obtain a discount on the municipal policy for minima. The second is to eliminate the voluntary own risk. The Minister has advised against both amendments. He made a number of arguments for that, and I find it inconsistent. 13% of people get a few hundred euros off the healthcare policy, and that pays the other 87%. The Minister's research has shown that storage is relatively low, but the discount for that small group, which is highly educated, often healthy, rich group of people, men, by the way, is quite high. Conversely, it is at the municipality's policy. This also benefits a relatively small group. The discount they receive is much smaller than the discount given to people with a voluntary risk. My point is that if you think, in principle, that the discount of one should not be paid by the other, then that should also be applied in principle. Now, with other arguments, I hear the Minister dissuade the two amendments. I don't think that's consistent. I would ask him to respond to this particular point in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-11.u110	A brief question from Mrs Tielen. One question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-11.u111	I have the same question to Mrs Westerveld as I just asked Mrs Van den Berg. Does Mrs Westerveld not agree that solidarity in the system is mainly borne by the income-dependent care premium distributed through employers? That is actually the much larger part that Dutch people contribute to the healthcare system. If Mrs Westerveld puts such labels on people who might or might not benefit from something, it might be useful to look at the whole system.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-11.u112	I think we are looking in particular at the own contribution you can expect from people who earn more and have a higher income. If it's up to GroenLinks, we're going to take care of it in all areas. Then we're going to create a much more progressive tax system. Then we're going to make sure that higher incomes pay much more into care. I therefore believe that we are fundamentally opposed to the distribution of the prosperity that we have in this country in all areas. I think that is where the other name comes from, and that is where it comes from, so I do think that this voluntary contribution will put a small group at a disadvantage, which does not need it most.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-11.u113	Very good. Thank you. Then Mr Van der Staaij of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-11.u114	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for his reply. I have co-signed a number of motions. This also shows what we think is important to bring forward in the second term. I would just like to use my second term to say that we will support this bill. People sometimes ask if we change our minds in politics. I must say that in the first instance we were in fact negative about the idea of abolishing the discount on collection. But the substantive discussion has convinced us. The emphasis was on maintaining the goal. This is the promotion of health-related agreements on health promotion and prevention. We need to look for other instruments to further shape this, because this instrument has actually not worked very well for that. This has convinced us to take this step and to support the abolition of the reduction in collection. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-11.u115	Thank you. Then Mrs Tielen from the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-11.u116	Huh, just one minute? I had six left. I wanted to talk it through, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-11.u117	I was afraid.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-11.u118	No, I'm not. Thank you for the answers. The Minister replied to the question about the collections that are still possible and the programmes that come with them. Mrs Paulama has also tabled a motion on my behalf. That's nice. Here's what's bothering me from time to time. That makes sense, because we're talking about the Health Insurance Act. So we are actually only talking about a small part of the total system. I find it difficult that we sometimes forget that the premium we pay to the health insurance company, which we know will be billed, is actually much smaller than what everyone forgets to see on their pay slip. That may sometimes become more visible. I have one motion. It's about the policy offer. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the collectivity discount on basic health insurance will be abolished;]] [[Whereas it is stated that the abolition of the discount is expected to lead to a further reduction in the number of collections;]] [[Whereas this makes the policy offer more transparent and easier to compare for people;]] [[calls on the government to monitor the effects of this change in relation to the policy offer, and to inform the Chamber about this before the summer of 2023, so that we can see if additional things are still needed,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Tielen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35872-15]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-11.u119	That's it, Mr. Chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-11.u120	Very good. The last speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mrs Den Haan from the Den Haan Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-11.u121	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I don't have any motions. I've co-signed a number of motions. Thank you for answering the questions, thank you very much. I am not so much in favour or against abolishing the discount. I am very much in favour of solidarity and good care arrangements that can be made. I would therefore like to put one more question to the Minister. I assume that the Minister also considers it important that care collections are accessible to all insurers in terms of health. I would therefore ask him to look at the following. For example, it should not be possible for certain health insurers not to want to have certain collections because the burden of damage is too high there. I do not know if he is aware of this, but I would like to hear from the Minister in the second term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-11.u122	Fine. So much for the second term of office. I'll suspend for five minutes. Then we're gonna listen to the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-11.u123	The Minister has the floor and we'll be outside in five minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-11.u124	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. There were two supplementary questions. First of all, Mrs Westerveld asked whether or not our own risk is in solidarity. I understand that question, but in addition, I'm saying that there are a few effects going on here. The group that opts for a higher or a maximum own risk is generally the group that also makes little care costs. Mrs Tielen has also referred to this a number of times. They pay fully through income tax. They also pay most of the care premium. So you could also turn the argument around and say: they are the ones who show maximum solidarity. That's the one. The second is that there is also a possible effect of very careful handling of their own care costs. I referred to the Central Planning Office. The Central Planning Bureau has also made an assessment of this. That estimate was that this possibility meant that this group was worth about EUR 100 million on an annual basis in healthcare costs, i.e. that they would be reduced. So the moment we abolish this, there are a number of effects. You're asking a group to show even more solidarity. We can talk about that, but I don't intend to do that right now. We also need to take into account that this is not evidence that the effect of careful handling of your own care consumption then also disappears. That would lead to more costs. Overall, it may be that the effect is higher and that it is negative. I also mentioned the effect of that €0.50. So that's an addition. The second question came from Mrs Den Haan. She asked if health insurers could refuse specific people in their collective. Of course, a person in a collective should not be refused basic insurance. That goes everywhere. If a person is a member of a collective and if an additional insurance is offered in that collective, then that is not allowed either. But someone individually may be refused supplementary insurance.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-11.u125	The motions. First of all, a brief question from Mrs Den Haan.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-11.u126	Mr. Chairman, I'm sorry. It is not an individual person, but the point is that a health insurance company no longer wants to have a collectivity of, for example, the elderly or patients, because the burden of damage on that collectivity is too high.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-11.u127	Sure... Sure, listen to me! Mr President, I need more clarification. If someone is or is not organised as an individual or as a collective, they should not be refused for basic insurance. This cannot be done individually or as a collective.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-11.u128	Clear. The motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-11.u129	The motion in part No. 10 gets judgment room. The motion in part No. 11 deals with further research on budget policies, supply, why and the impact on the system. First of all, let me say that I cannot go along with the suggestion that a budget policy with selective contracting has no place in the system. I have also just argued why I think it can have a place. With regard to the request in the motion, my request is to hold this motion. For part of the question put in the motion, research already exists in 2020. I can inform your Chamber and Mrs Van den Berg about this. But the total research that is being asked for is really large. I would therefore like to suggest that you should first submit the data from that earlier study and then see if there is still a desire to have the overall research carried out.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-11.u130	The suggestion to Mrs Van den Berg is therefore to hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-11.u131	I would like to look at that, because we can always adapt the text to what is still needed.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-11.u132	But "watching" means you're holding the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-11.u133	Yes, we're holding the motion now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-11.u134	The motion is being held.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-11.u135	The motion in part No. 12 gets judgment room. The motion in part No. 13 also gets judgment Chamber. The motion in part No. 14 is not recommended. The motion in part No. 15 also gets judgment Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-11.u136	Fine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-11.u137	On Tuesday we will vote on the law, the two amendments and the five motions. Thank you very much to the Minister for his presence this evening. Thank you to the Members. I shall close the sitting on 6 April 2022.
