ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-21.u1	The next item is the continuation of the examination of the legislative proposal 35917, Amendment of the Temporary Act on the fight against terrorism in connection with the extension of the duration of the proceedings. We are now ready for the government's response in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-21.u2	I give the floor to the Minister of Justice and Security.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-21.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have already spoken to most Members of this House this afternoon about a different law. I have indicated that, in my opinion, it is extremely important in our broader palette of instruments that we need to ward off terrorists who are a threat to our national security. With your permission, I will skip the introductory text and reply immediately. I've got some files for that. The first is usefulness and necessity. The second is the evaluation. The third is the relationship with criminal law. I'll have the AVG here and another folder. I'll start with usefulness and necessity. The first question I have in front of me is from Mrs De Boer. It asks: is the infringement of citizens' rights proportionate to the purpose of the law? The purpose of the law is to protect national security. It is precisely because of the depth of the measure that the imposition of the measure is not carried out lightly. The balance of all the interests involved must be duly justified in the decision imposing the measure. The judge shall then review its legality. In addition, measures are of a temporary nature and are imposed only if necessary because of the protection of national security and if less stringent measures are not possible. Thus, the infringement is proportionate to the purpose of the law. Mrs De Boer asked another question. She asked: can there be less radical action than what is now in the pipeline? The use of the temporary act shall always consider whether the measure contributes adequately to the protection of national security. Firstly, it is necessary to involve a person carrying out terrorist activities or supporting terrorism, and also to ensure that the use of the measure contributes to the protection of national security. You're gonna hear that bit a little more from me, but you've been hearing that all day. Secondly, the measure is not simply imposed. Partners such as the municipality, the Public Prosecutor and the Security House discuss whether the measure is necessary in a particular case. So that is weighed together in a case-by-case discussion. It examines whether other measures, such as the deployment of a deradicalisation project, would not be more appropriate. It also examines whether, in addition to the use of a measure under a temporary law, other interventions are also involved with the aim of ensuring the best possible protection of national security. And, if there is a criminal offence, the use of criminal law is, of course, appropriate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-21.u4	Maybe I can make an order note first: do you want to take into account that there is a few minutes delay in the live stream? I ran when it was over on television, but I was still late. Mr. Chairman. I have a bit of a déjà vu. The debate we had here yesterday was also about the necessity, proportionality and subsidiarity of measures to restrict fundamental rights on the basis of a temporary law. At that time, I argued that I am doing it again, because I see that it does not seem to have happened to me that not only the measures imposed should be proportionate, necessary and subsidiary, so that every time a measure is imposed, it must be weighted, but that the same applies to the law. In your reply you refer to the proportionality of the measure in the individual case, while my questions were about the law as a whole. So maybe you can go into that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-21.u5	Perhaps then I can answer another question I have in front of me from Mrs De Boer, about effectiveness. Could that be possible? I need to make it as practical as possible, because that is what it is about, the usefulness and the necessity: why did we put it back on the table? In cases where this law has been used, it has contributed to the protection of national security by making it difficult to conduct acts related to or supporting terrorist activities. In that very wide range of measures and instruments that we have, what is now before us, the temporary law, I find the abbreviation also complicated; if the long title is mentioned, then we are still here tomorrow, so I call it the temporary law, which really fills a gap. At the moment when criminal law is not yet under discussion, but we have really been dealing with concerns, so if we can say "there is a basis for this" in a chain consultation, with the D.A., with the Ggz, with the GGD and a Security House, it can be used. So in that sense, I think that the law as a whole is why I am here, of course, absolutely necessary and that it is also effective, given what is ahead. I can give you examples. Several members also asked questions about this and said: "Make it practical. When will it happen and what will happen?" I come to a number of examples. But one of the examples is the removal of area-related threats, which prevented a person from entering a designated area. If criminal law could have done that, of course we would have. But this really comes in the picture if you can't, but you do have reasonable reasons to say: now we have to be alert. Mr. Chairman. In doing so, the government also sees a contribution to the protection of national security in the possibility of imposing administrative measures. I have already said that the powers of the law are still needed. The terrorist threat is variable, but, as the latest threat picture shows, it is significant. I also argued in my introduction to the law earlier today why I really do not think that this is something that remains. Just like this afternoon's law on the withdrawal of Dutch citizenship, this too is extremely topical and extremely urgent. It is very important that we at least have that option for cases where there are also other instruments to be devised, for example criminal law.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-21.u6	As far as this type of deep-down action is concerned, administrative measures do not yet cover the courts in front of them. It can only be done afterwards. I understand that from the pieces. But the whole debate has not yet come to light: what is the role of civil law? If there are genuine concerns about a person who wants to go to a particular area in the Netherlands to possibly commit an attack there, could you not also say in summary proceedings, for example as a municipality, as a plaintiff, that we have this kind of information, which is not yet sufficient for criminal law, but we are asking for a ban on territory? Then it's the judge in interim proceedings who can test, and then you have a judge in front of you. Would you like to respond to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-21.u7	What is very nice about what is here, and what is also its added value, is that you can switch very quickly. That in that chain meeting, I think it is important to mention that, because it is really an analysis carried out from different disciplines that can say very quickly: we must act quickly now. And it is also important that Mr Dittrich is absolutely right about that, and that is what he was talking about in his speech: that you keep those guarantees in order, that you can test them and that all these steps remain open, of course. But it does help that you can switch quickly. I think that, from the responsibility that all those chain partners have, this really adds something to the other instruments that could be there.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-21.u8	But I'm bringing the interim proceedings into the mix. That can be done very quickly, even on the same day, if there really is an emergency. That has not been mentioned at all in the documents. So I ask you whether you think that civil law, in this case the interim proceedings, could play a role. For example, all these chain participants can say through the municipality: we are going to demand that someone should not go anywhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-21.u9	I do not think that solves the problem experienced by Mr Dittrich, because civil law itself is not meant for the relationship between citizen and government. We have other routes for that. Mr Dittrich is now looking at me disappointed/thinkingly, but I think that here I say disrespectfully a hole is filled, where otherwise the local directors and the chain partners stand empty-handed.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-21.u10	Finally, Mr. Dittrich.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-21.u11	But it is not, of course, the case that an interim measure cannot be brought by a government against a citizen. There are a lot of interim proceedings going on to get something done that's urgent. The advantage compared to administrative measures is that it is a judgment on the front and not, as in administrative law, on the back. I'd still like your reflection on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-21.u12	I don't think we have exactly the same opinion on the disadvantage that the judge would take a test afterwards. If you look at how those safeguards are built up, then I think it's very good to defend why we're doing it in these steps.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-21.u13	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-21.u14	At the risk of repeating myself, I would like to address Mrs De Boer's question explicitly. It asks whether the Minister agrees that measures against radicalisation are potentially more effective than measures subject to this law. This temporary law includes measures aimed at persons who pose a threat to national security, but, as has been said, whose conduct does not yet result in criminal offences. The fear is, of course, that these crimes are coming. The measures are therefore in themselves preventive and must be distinguished from the use of criminal powers. Parallel to the deployment of the temporary law... Sorry, you heard my phone. I have the sound of my phone on for a certain reason, but I will turn it off anyway, otherwise you will hear everything and that is also annoying. The measures are therefore in themselves preventive in nature. In parallel with the deployment of the temporary law, the cabinet continues to focus on prevention as part of the comprehensive counter-terrorism approach. This comprehensive approach includes both repressive and preventive measures to combat terrorist movements. So that's very broad anyway. The whole package is therefore a spectrum, of which I have already said this afternoon by the other law that was dealt with that it is all part of it. I think, quite frankly, that the more instruments you have, the more careful you can see when you can bet. What you can use is even more specific. Of course I understand the concern of Members here who say: isn't that too much? But I think it gives you the right perspective for action. Mr Dittrich asks: do all the measures still have the right to exist now that they have never been implemented? I think he also said: if the threat level changes, should not the number of measures or the form of measures change? Effectiveness is not linked to the number of measures that can be imposed. The point is that, in those cases where the measures are imposed, national security is protected. The power to refuse or withdraw subsidies, for example, has so far not been used. In the opinion of the Cabinet, this is without prejudice to the need for this measure. The Cabinet remains of the opinion that there should be a legal basis for rejecting an application for a decision or for withdrawing a decision if there is a serious risk that the activity covered by the decision could be co-used for terrorist activities or their support. The WODC concludes that the prohibition of contact led to no physical meetings. That was the goal, so you could say that was effective. Then Mr Dittrich asked: how can the Minister propose the continuation of the measures at a lower level of threat and an incomparable threat? The threat level gives an estimate of the probability of an attack in or against the Netherlands. A lower level of threat does not mean that there cannot be persons who may be associated with or support terrorist activities on the basis of conduct. I explained this afternoon, and also with figures, how big the problem is. I dare refer to that because the same Members are here. So the problem isn't gone. In addition, the threat image is periodically reviewed and can be adjusted. Of course, the higher the threat, the more likely it is that measures will be taken. But even at a lower level of threat it may be necessary to use the temporary law. This means that there is an indirect link between the need for a temporary law and the level of threat. For example, the need to maintain the temporary law follows from the upcoming release of terrorist convicts. There are people trapped in our country for terrorism who are released at some point. And that's the way it should be. If someone is released, this will be reported in the case consultation of the relevant municipality. There can be weighed by all disciplines: is there something we need to be alert about, or are you okay? In my opinion, if I may be so bold as to fill that in, it is very nice that it is looked at in this way from different disciplines. But think also of returners with experience of violence and the development of the threat of right-wing extremists. I'll come back to that later. Of course, it's much wider. The direct cause ever was the jihadism we saw, but it's much wider than that. And we see a clear movement, for example, of right-wing extremistism. You have read all this in the analysis of our intelligence services. Then it is important that you at least have instruments in your hands.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-21.u15	The Minister goes through everything very quickly. It may seem as if she is dealing with everything, but there is no clear answer to the questions we have asked. The minister mentioned the example of someone who served his sentence. The chain talks consider it important to continue monitoring whether that person is going to do any other nasty things or whether it is safe. But we're not talking about monitoring. That doesn't fall under this law. That is not about imposing administrative measures. Administrative measures are imposed on you as a result of the conduct of the person concerned. In my opinion, this cannot be the behaviour for which a penalty has already been applied. Do you agree with me? I also keep wrestling with the question of what behavior it's about. It is absolutely fine that you keep monitoring someone within the legal frameworks and that the AIVD is involved. But increasing administrative measures goes a step further. That must be based on behavior. What behaviors that can't be dealt with criminally, do you think?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-21.u16	I will come to a number of examples later, also on the basis of a few questions. Mrs De Boer said: do you agree with me that someone who has been imprisoned for certain things cannot be watched again?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-21.u17	That's not exactly what I said. I said, "Of course someone can be watched for that."
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-21.u18	Sorry. I meant to impose the measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-21.u19	Exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-21.u20	What I wanted to go to is this. Someone gets stuck because of certain actions. In that case, criminal law was already in sight. You could have. This is for the situation in which criminal law cannot yet be seen. I will come to a number of examples later. It may be that we still do not agree, but they might make it a little clearer. This is really about moments when criminal law is not yet in sight and there is behaviour that is a threat to national security but that you cannot yet bring it to justice, let me put it this way, or where you cannot yet intervene from criminal law. That's exactly what this is about. Maybe the examples will make it clearer. In the meantime, I have a question from Mr Doornhof and Mr Janssen, if I may. It was about making the law permanent. In view of the threat, the temporary law is an important toolbox. Finally, with the implementation of the Gert-Jan Segers/Madeleine motion from Toorenburg, the House of Representatives decided to renew it for another five years. In fact, that discussion is a bit similar to that we had this afternoon, except that I did not have a very good amendment underneath it. That's the difference. Mr. Chairman. Mr Arbouw asks: how does the Minister see the coherence between these measures and the overall package of measures? The parties involved in the integrated approach have an important role to play in identifying and combating radicalism and terrorism. The aim of the concerted integrated approach is to identify and identify signals of radicalisation and potential threats in a timely manner and to then use them to counter radicalisation. A measure under the Temporary Act on the fight against terrorism can be one of the necessary elements. The following is an example, perhaps also a little towards Mrs De Boer. Someone could have been convicted of sedition and hate-sowing. After that, when they get out, you can impose an area ban on that behavior on a vulnerable neighborhood. That can then exist side by side with each other. You may not be able to do anything again from criminal law at that time, but you can say, for example, that we see enough reason in that chain talks, with all those partners, that something is going on here and we do not want those in a vulnerable neighbourhood to recruit young children with their radical ideas. It's possible. After that, of course, the judge will test whether that was possible. I know that Mrs De Boer knows that, and so does Mr Dittrich, who is now getting up. Criminal law is, of course, a punishment and this is a measure. In this room with lawyers, that is an open door, but it is an important difference.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-21.u21	But just so we're clear, that's gonna have to be new behavior. This person has been convicted by the criminal court for certain past conduct. The sentence has been served. I can imagine people thinking: he or she can still be a threat. But I assume that these behaviors will then have to lie in the future and will not be the same behavior that the criminal court has addressed.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-21.u22	I think we mean exactly the same thing in that regard. That chain meeting will weigh it up. If they weigh together that the sentence has been served and if they see someone taking their life, having a job and you name it and just living on, you'll get another weighting. 'Cause you can see that someone's actually picking up those practices again. At the moment when these practices are picked up in such a way that criminal law comes back into view, you simply have a different path. Then we're not gonna do this. But if there are legitimate concerns in that chain talks, you could say: we do not want the person concerned to be able to do his thing in a vulnerable neighborhood.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-21.u23	Which brings me to the question: what exactly are "behaviors"? Is that reading lyrics or watching movies?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-21.u24	I'll get to that later.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-21.u25	You'll get to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-21.u26	Yeah, sure. I'll get to that later. That's what listens very closely. If you don't mind, I'll come back to that later.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-21.u27	I have another practical question about the end of detention. Detention legislation has already been designed in such a way that conditions can be imposed on leave and such, and in any case at the end of behavior. Are those...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-21.u28	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-21.u29	I can see you nodding. I don't have to finish my sentence.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-21.u30	No, sorry. That will certainly be weighed, because for example, the D.A. is also at the table in the chain talks. The D.A. can bring that in. The D.A. can say that there are special conditions. Perhaps the Law on Long-Term Supervision has already been imposed at the beginning of the sentence. There are all kinds of variants possible. This really applies if there is none and you have legitimate concerns as partners. Sorry to interrupt Mr Recourt. Mr Arbouw, like Mrs De Boer, had asked for a concrete example. This is a fairly fictional example and a fairly real example. I can't really sit down with reality, because then one can immediately find out about who it is. Of course, we don't want that. The AIVD knew that the person concerned was on a list of those involved in a terrorist group. So the AIVD knew that. This is explained by the AIVD in a notice of office. Within this organisation, the person concerned most probably had a role that showed willingness to fight. We can see that, too. Information showed a set of behaviours that could be inferred from the fact that the person concerned has joined a terrorist organisation. It was known that the person concerned had tried to buy a firearm. During a sporting event, the person involved had called for something to happen and used the term "boom boom." He was arrested by the police at the time. So far we can all follow it fairly, I think. After a disagreement with someone who contradicted him, the person concerned had said that he would be beheaded by the terrorist organisation. At different times, the person concerned referred to membership of a terrorist organisation and expressed radical views. Eventually, the behaviour at that time did not provide sufficient grounds for a real arrest. The police, of course, were pulled over, alert, but just didn't think it was enough for an arrest. But taking preventive action, given everything we've just heard, was imperative. It can be concluded from the above description of behaviour that the person concerned was a threat to national security. This has led to an area ban and reporting obligation during a subsequent sporting event under the temporary law. But then you're talking about a defined event, a sports event, and a defined place, from the premise that the police don't have enough to really intervene. If you know all this, you want to be able to act. So this is such an example. You can see why I would like to read this to you, because it listens very closely. These are exactly the moments when you say: I don't have enough in my hands to actually act. I'll go to the evaluation folder now. Mr Dittrich asked: does the Minister recognise that the WODC investigation is very critical and that researchers do not conclude anywhere that the law has contributed to national security? That's right. The WODC is critical of its operation, but it will not surprise Mr Dittrich that I do not agree with that criticism. That should also be possible. The WODC mentions as the purpose of the law the promotion of deradicalisation and contact with those involved. In addition, the WODC says that the added value of the temporary law for the personal approach is limited. As indicated in the policy response, the purpose of the law is to protect national security. Deradicalisation can only be an additional effect with a possible additional result. The conclusion of the WODC therefore does not, as far as I am concerned, fit well with the purpose of the law. However, the WODC concludes that the reporting obligation, as I have just said, resulted in those concerned living in the sight of the government and were not present in the area concerned in the event of an area ban. So from that idea, from those goals, it has worked and the expectations have come true. Then Mr Janssen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-21.u31	I was just chewing on the example. But I have to tell you, I think it's pretty skinny if it stays with a restraining order. Then the government takes a strong risk. So my question is: is this example isolated from multiple actions by the government? 'Cause if you really want to commit an attack, then that restraining order will put you on your... and so on. I believe that Mrs De Boer has said the same thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-21.u32	Then there can be much more in such a specific case, which of course I cannot go into entirely either. If you know someone's got a restraining order, you know what to keep tabs on. Then you also know what to be alert to when the person comes into the picture. Then the parties who then have to keep the area safe have been alerted. There may have been a reporting obligation attached to that. There could be a lot of other aspects. What it's sketching is that you actually have reason to worry. Mr Recourt said: it sounds almost lean what you can still bet. But criminal law isn't in sight yet, and you still want to be able to act.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-21.u33	I get that. But now I was concerned with the question of how to make that concrete. Then, in the example you mention, the other measures seem to be much more effective, namely that you have eyes on someone, that you have the services for that, that you are going to follow someone, and so on. That seems to me to be a much more effective measure than saying: you can't come here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-21.u34	But of course you have to have reasonable reasons for doing so. There are safeguards for this too. Such a chain consultation at a local level is possible... I have seen this from this role, but also from previous roles, even when I was working in the municipality. At that time it did not exist in this way, but you saw that the local parties can be very close to such a person, so also know very well what is going on and can use their networks very well. What's going on? Is there anything more you need? I told you, it's about the Security House, the GGD, the GGZ. Is there any need for care? What customization can you deliver? So it's not just saying that someone isn't supposed to go anywhere, and then it's fixed. Mr Recourt did not say it that way, but I do not mean it that way. But you do need something more than, disrespectfully, a form of meddling. 'Cause that's what it comes down to. It could be a combination. You can also come up with one measure an end. You'll have to weigh that carefully. That is why I am glad that this is happening in such a broad context, and not from one discipline, so that you can always weigh it well. I had ended up with Mr Janssen. He had a nice open question: does the minister mean to say that the WODC in the report did not understand the purpose of the law? That's how the question was asked. I have just explained to Mr Dittrich that I think that the approach has indeed been a slightly different one. The purpose of the temporary law is to protect national security. This is also reflected in the articles governing the power to impose measures. It's very clear in that too. It also includes the objective of imposing a measure. For example, Article 2 of the law states explicitly: if necessary for the protection of national security. In my opinion, the WODC is based on a wider scope of application of the law that can be deradicalised, but deradicalisation has been named as a possible side effect and not as a primary objective of the law. Well, you'll get a difference of opinion there, let's just say.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-21.u35	Then my question to the Minister is: is it the WODC or is it the law, if there is any ambiguity?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-21.u36	I think we just have a healthy debate and a reaction for that, and here we are discussing it with each other. So I wouldn't necessarily want to break them up. If it clarifies the fact that we now call it that in the legal process, I am happy to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-21.u37	But that wasn't my question. It was not an attack on the minister, it was simply the question: if the WODC has completely misunderstood that, is that due to the understanding of the WODC or is that due to the fact that there may be some ambiguity in the law?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-21.u38	Again, I don't know what that is. But if our conversation helps clarify the law, I think that's a nice side effect. Mr Talsma asks: how will legal protection be included in the evaluation? It is very important that I also mention here that the law should, of course, be reviewed in the event of an extension of the law by five years. So when we come to that, of course. This can be linked to what was evaluated last time, such as the cases where a measure was imposed and the number of times it was imposed. The previous evaluation also looked at legal protection by highlighting the number of appeals brought against a decision. It is also necessary to examine, in consultation with the WODC, how further attention can be paid to legal protection. I fully agree with Mr Talsma on this. I think it is also good to note that the temporary law itself is forcing careful consideration in the models we have just talked about, thereby contributing to legal protection. For example, the law requires that the mayor should be consulted before taking a decision, unless the urgency of the situation prevents it. In addition, the intention to impose a measure is submitted to the parties concerned for views. The person concerned may then indicate that he wishes to be heard. But how we're going to shape the sequel now, is actually also in conversation with the WODC, just like with the previous law. Of course, the WODC is completely independent, but we can talk about how we want to judge the law later, so that everyone can weigh that up. That is actually Mr Talsma's next question. He asked: what conditions would then have to be met? We're still talking to the WODC about how it's going to be filled out. The House of Representatives has been approved by the Bikker/Kuik motion to ask for clarification of the conditions to be met by the measures so that any subsequent extension or finalisation of the law can take place. So there are also motions before us which help us to do this and which, as it were, tighten it up a little bit. We have of course already placed that at the WODC, so they have also taken note of that. As has already been said, we must now look at how we are shaping this further. The WODC will always remain independent. Then I'm in the relationship with criminal law. Mr Recourt says: if the judge rejects a sentence, the administration can still impose that punishment. Not the judge, but the board will have the final say. How desirable is that? Actually, he said "that's undesirable," but I'm going to fill it out a little bit wider. In my view, we have just been able to explain, in the course of interruptions, but also in my speech, that administrative law and criminal law have their own review framework, their own considerations and their own objectives, so we must complement each other and, in my view, complement each other. Criminal law is aimed at the punishment of criminal offences and this temporary law is aimed at preventive measures to protect national security. So even if, for example, the criminal court believes that there are no grounds for pre-trial detention, administrative measures may be at issue, as has just been said. Perhaps another example. It is possible, for example, that there is no or no suspicion of a criminal offence, so that the danger posed by a person with pre-trial detention can be removed. It is also possible that criminal law has been worked out. So someone's served his sentence. That's the example we were just talking about. And there's no adequate connection to the criminal offence that was committed and for which the sentence was served, but you do want to do something. It may then be necessary to take preventive measures to protect national security. It also follows that administrative law is not going to play a role instead of criminal law. It is not the case that administrative action is taken while other means are appropriate. Then you must have ruled that out. Where, for example, a terrorist offence is and continues to be of interest or indication. Mr Dittrich said: do words or watching videos fall under a behavior; what does it cover, what is a "behavior"? The imposition of measures requires that a person may be associated with or support terrorist activities in relation to his or her conduct. Of course, watching videos alone is not enough reason to impose a measure. Then there will have to be more to it with certain expressions and certain behaviours. Article 83a of the Criminal Code offers us a handle. In the case of terrorism, in short, it is about scaring the people seriously, putting the government under enormous pressure to do or not do something or to disrupt fundamental national structures. Support should include the provision of assistance in the broadest sense. That is how we have always interpreted it and treated it with each other. For example, by being helpful in carrying out terrorist activities by another person or by providing the opportunity, means or intelligence to carry out terrorist activities by another person. So just watching a movie or something isn't enough. But the moment you notice that there is more going on there before criminal law can intervene, you will be able to use this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-21.u39	I think this is one of the key issues. In my view, the examples I hear from the Minister are all examples that could be covered by criminal law as preparatory acts for a terrorist purpose. Then the evidence may be difficult to get through, but the question is whether we want to use this law to provide a solution if we can't get the evidence out of court or if we're talking about a different kind of behavior. I had the feeling that the Minister was referring to other behaviours that are not yet covered by criminal law, but if I hear the examples now, I think that these are all criminal behaviours that can be dealt with if we can prove them. So it's about the evidence issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-21.u40	It is about the fact that criminal law does not yet apply. The examples I cite are examples from practice, so they have also been tested in practice. That also shows that there, as I call it, is that hole.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-21.u41	But the examples mentioned by the Minister, the helping of others in terrorist activities, that is just criminal law, isn't it? Calling for terrorist activities, isn't that just a matter of criminal law? How can criminal law not yet be dealt with?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-21.u42	Sometimes it'll fall under and sometimes it won't. I don't think I need to explain that to Mrs. De Boer. I'm sure she knows that much better than I do. It's not that black and white. Suppose you have a legitimate reason to worry, but criminal law cannot yet be used because the police say, as I said in the other example: we have made an arrest, but we do not have enough to go through with it, so we need to release them. But suppose you know someone tried to buy a gun, said to find that interesting, said towards a sports event of "boom boom, your head goes off." Do you say "yes, I have to wait until things get worse" or do you want to have resources to say "at least I'm going to secure that sporting event by preventing those who can go there"? After that, you're not gonna turn your back and think it's gonna go away. Of course, you keep looking from all those chain partners to see if there is a need for customization, whether there is a need for care, whether there is a need for justice or what you can do. It's about those specific moments, places, you name it. And it has to be, because the judge will check it out. It must, of course, be proportionate and have all the other important elements that we have built in for the safeguards. So if criminal law can't help any more: that's what it's about.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-21.u43	I think we're gonna repeat ourselves, and I don't think that's a good idea. But my impression is that where criminal law is not yet under discussion, it will be a matter of proof rather than of non-punitive provisions. I would be sorry if we were to say: we are using administrative measures because the burden of proof is less there. I don't think that's the idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-21.u44	So I didn't say it like that. It may also be that someone wasn't ready yet, but you have enough reason to worry.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-21.u45	I hear the Minister use the word'still' many times when it comes to criminal law; criminal law is 'not yet on the table' or 'not yet on the agenda'. I'm just trying to figure out exactly what the Minister means by that. Is that the idea that it might happen that criminal law is still being used, or that it is not yet, but that it is going to happen in the short term? The reason I ask that is my question in the first term. I hope it's not hidden in another folder, 'cause then I'm early. Sometimes criminal law can also benefit greatly from secrecy. I mean, there's no one yet who says, "ho, ho, ho, you can't be at that sporting event" because it's breaking a criminal investigation. So what's the deal with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-21.u46	I think it's in a different folder. But here's the thing: for example, the D.A. is sitting at the table. Police and justice are involved in these considerations. It may well be that these partners indicate in practice: not because of other matters at the moment. They can share part of that table and part not. But of course all these partners know who will give that advice. So, of course, that's weighted there. That's the thing. Criminal law cannot be dealt with at that time for a number of reasons. It may also be that in the end it doesn't come up, that your interventions were successful, that you were able to deliver customization and that something else happened to the person concerned. It's possible. But this is really for the area where all these partners are concerned and where they really would like to act, but where that is not yet possible, within the framework of national security. So it's so firm. Because everything else, which is not in the context of national security, is of course also included in the chain consultation and then it is discussed: what kind of care does someone need, what is going on? All these elements take place there. At the moment when there is good reason to worry about national security, it will be addressed with the advice of all those parties. I think that was the question I just got in front of me. Then we are at the folder about the GDPR, among other things, and a little bit wider. Mr Recourt said: can the Minister explain once again why and how the GDPR requires that meaningless, but vulnerable, data are recorded? The GDPR requires that there is a clear legal basis for processing personal data. We all know that. The processing of special personal data is subject to heavier requirements and should be explicitly provided for in the law, specifying the particular personal data involved. As it is not excluded that special data or data from which they can be derived are included in the administrative reporting, it is necessary to ensure that these data can be received. So that's because you can't completely rule it out. Mr Janssen was looking for: who made the mistake? Is that the Council of State, by overlooking the GDPR obligation? Then why is the Minister aware of this obligation, but not the Council of State? Since the introduction of the GDPR, there has been evidence of a progressive understanding of several laws, in particular that processing of special personal data requires an explicit legal basis. This basis had not yet been incorporated into the law. Although these rules were already in force for the GDPR, they were generally not yet incorporated into legislation. Not all legislation has already been adapted to comply with these rules. This happens gradually, every time a relevant law is amended.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-21.u47	What mattered to me and why I brought that up is because the Council of State mentioned a number of things that you might be able to take on, but that didn't include race and ethnicity. The Minister said that, following the opinion of the Council of State, we amended the proposal. But it did contain race and ethnicity, while the Council of State had said "no need for that" or "don't do that in it." That is why my question is: why do you say that you are following the advice of the Council of State? The Council of State says don't do race and ethnicity. The cabinet does breed and ethnicity and has the basis that it should or should. But that's a choice of its own, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-21.u48	I believe that the Council of State has indicated that it must be justified on a case-by-case basis. And we will.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-21.u49	I have just quoted the opinion of the Advisory Section. It says, "Take this and this and this and this." Race and ethnicity were not included, but the cabinet chose to add them. This does not follow the advice of the Council of State as it has been advised. That has been a private choice of the cabinet. My question is why? What is the added value?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-21.u50	I think we have a slightly different interpretation of what the Council of State is saying. Perhaps we can look at that again in the second term. I read it in such a way that they say: motivate per given. For example, we have motivated race. So I think we just have another reading in here. As far as I am concerned, it is absolutely right to come back to that later. I really do read it differently. We, as a cabinet, read it differently. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll be at the folder. There's a lot of stuff in there. Mrs Bezaan asks: does the Minister agree that the Netherlands should not give terrorists a millimetre of space? Sure, I couldn't agree more. There is a firm approach. Terrorists are severely punished. We are discussing two separate laws today, but they are part of a wide range of issues that we can use. Judgments shall be punished for the retribution and compensation of victims and society. On the one hand there is punishment and on the other there is satisfaction. Another goal is to prevent an unsub from making another mistake. Of course, we don't want to. In addition to punishing, it is in the interests of national security to work for safe reintegration into society during and after detention. So there is a lot of effort on that as well. That must be controlled, I say to Mrs Bezaan, with guarantees for national security and the security of all of us. Where it is not possible to influence the behaviour of those convicted of terrorism, the parties in the case consultation, as well as the intelligence services, focus on the assessment and mitigation of threats. In my free words, nothing is looked at naively. All those parties from the case consultation we are talking about all evening are involved, but the intelligence services are also watching it and of course they are looking at the intel they have. There are several criminal and administrative possibilities to restrict and monitor freedoms after detention, such as by a behavioral and freedom-limiting measure based on the law on long-term supervision, or by a land ban, reporting obligation or prohibition of contact under the law we are discussing today. That will always be individual customization, but there is therefore a wide package. I have a question that I believe was Mr Recourt's. The question was about how the judge's review is going to take place. The imposition of the measure must be sufficiently plausible. The main rule is that the person concerned shall be heard in advance of the intention to impose a measure. Only in certain cases can the hearing be omitted: if there is an urgency or if the hearing precludes the attainment of the purpose of the decision. Those are the exceptions. Next, a direct appeal is open to the court. The objection phase is skipped, so that a judicial judgment can be obtained more quickly if necessary. The court is obliged to deal with the case expeditiously. In assessing the appeal, the court shall take into account facts and circumstances which have arisen after the contested decision has been taken. In certain cases, the person to whom the order is imposed cannot see all the material. That's what we had a discussion about this afternoon. Then there's a call for secrecy. The judge checks whether this is rightly invoked and can see the material. That's the test we have now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-21.u51	Thank you, Minister, it was just not my question. My question was about the urgency of the review. A board judge generally leaves some room for a government to make its own decision and doesn't sit on it full. But that has been discussed just after the child care allowance affair. Shouldn't that board judge be a little more intrusive? That is why, in my term of office, I also quoted the very recent ruling of the Grand Chamber of the Administrative Court of the Council of State. It says: no, if the impact is greater, then we will also be more intrusive. What's that like in this case?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-21.u52	This principle will also have an impact on the review of the measures under this law. It's gonna work in there. It is perhaps a good thing to say that it is good to have that insight, that new decision or whatever you want to formulate it, apply to it. Here, too, the review was really intrusive. It's always good to see if it can and must be fuller and heavier. That's what's going to happen here. The digital area ban. You can read Mr Dittrich's question in two ways, so I have answered it in two ways. By the letter of 28 May 2018, the Dutch Lower House was informed by the then Minister of Justice and Security about objections to the introduction of a digital area ban as a power to prevent the use of the Internet by means of a ban. That letter states that there are various legal and practical limitations. For example, the preventive nature of such a measure, other than a physical measure, automatically results in a restriction of freedom of expression, because it is by its nature a prohibition of expressions. Because of this limitation and because other ways are being used to combat online extremism and terrorism, we have now seen no reason to include a digital ban on territory in this temporary law. That's one side of the answer. Mr Dittrich may have meant it differently, so he gets two for the price of one. At the moment, however, an online ban has been imposed by the mayor of Utrecht. That is another competence on the basis of another basis. It is therefore outside the law that we are discussing today. So it does exist in that sense, because it was done there. Recently, the mayor of Utrecht has imposed an online ban on a guy from Zeist. The mayor has informed me that the imposed measure takes the form of a penalty charge. The burden is that the person concerned should refrain from expressing online on social media that are qualified as giving rise to disorder due to challenging behavior. Of course, the mayor's powers differ from my powers. That's the way it's supposed to be. It concerns the difference between the imposition of measures under the temporary law and the imposition by the mayor by means of powers based on another basis. It's a local matter. I'm not judging that. It is up to the court to rule on the use of this power if proceedings were to be brought. We're gonna follow how that works out. I shall mention this because it exists in another place on the basis of another basis and for another purpose. It is not included in this law, also because in this case we think that we are coming a long way with the instruments we have here. Mr Dittrich asks how the WGS, which of course is not yet a law, relates to what is now before us. On what legal basis are the personal data processed under this clear law? As far as legal protection is concerned, the main rule is, I have just said that the person concerned is being heard in advance about the intention to impose a measure. So we're already giving the person concerned the point of view. Only in certain cases can the hearing be omitted, in the event of an emergency or in the case of other exceptional circumstances. The direct appeal shall be open. When assessing the appeal, the court shall take into account facts and circumstances arising after the decision has been taken. In fact, this is the answer I have already given to Mr Recourt. It doesn't collide because it's weighted like this. The WGS is concerned with the processing of personal data by partnerships and is about organised crime. That is not the issue here. That's a really different approach, if I may put it that way. The processing of personal data on the basis of the temporary law is based on a combination of the tasks assigned by the law, as included in Article 2, Article 7a for special personal data and Article 6 and Article 9 of the General Data Protection Regulation. I think it is especially good to tear those things apart for that reason. It is aimed at gender target groups, if I may put it that way, and the safeguards are regulated differently. But they're here. Mr Dittrich asked whether right-wing extremist behaviour led to the imposition of measures. I know Mr Dittrich knows, but I'm going to say it anyway. This is not about ideology. The law is wide. It concerns the conduct of those involved and the question of whether they can be linked to terrorism or its support. National security must be protected in this respect. I would like to mention it, also in view of the whole treatment and the examples. So far we have had many examples from one particular ideology, but that is not the law's aim. It can be much wider. If that is the case with someone inspired by right-wing extremism, one of these measures can of course be imposed on that person. It has not been the case so far. That doesn't mean it won't happen in the future. I think it is a very important question, because right-wing extremism has our great concern. We can see that in all the analyses. It is good to confirm that this law will also apply there. Mr Janssen says: does the Minister share the view that the law would never have been implemented without a jihadist threat? As I said, the law is ideologically neutral. We don't care. It's about whether the behavior is dangerous to our national security. The law does, however, result from the Integrated Approach to Jihadism Action Programme. That's obvious. At the time, jihadism was the greatest threat to our national security. This is still the case today, according to the Threat Picture of Terrorism Netherlands. I would like to emphasise that: it is not gone, it is not gone. That does not mean that the temporary law is only aimed at jihadism. We are making sure that we remain alert and flexible, and that we focus on the threat to national security and not staring blindly at one ideology. You should never do that. I think I have one more question from Mr Doornhof. I said something about this at the very beginning. That was about the permanent law and how we deal with it in the future. The law is temporarily through the horizon clause that has been incorporated. He'll make sure it's five years. In conjunction with that horizon provision, an article is included which regulates, for a long time before the expiry of the law, its evaluation and a report is sent to the two chambers on the effectiveness and effects of the law in practice. If it's any trouble, I'm still there myself. I hear what Mr Doornhof is saying. He says, "Don't wait until the last week before it expires, and make sure you arrange it well in time." That's exactly how it's planned. We had a slightly complicated political year last year, some of which couldn't move forward and some of which did. I hope that will look different in the coming years. When the policy response to the evaluation is offered, the cabinet announces the intention to extend or not to introduce the law permanently, after which, of course, discussions can be held with the two Chambers. The intention was to make this law final. The Segers/Van Toorenburg motion made us choose to do it for five years. This means that it is possible to impose measures if necessary, but also that the law needs to be re-evaluated. I believe that this does justice to the wishes of your Chamber and the House of Representatives, in which we both protect and evaluate national security in the right way.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-21.u53	Thank you, Minister. Mrs. De Boer has an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-21.u54	Yeah, I came for an interruption, otherwise I'm gonna have to use my expensive second term. I asked a question in the context of subsidiarity in the programme for deradicalisation and prevention of radicalisation. I asked whether we should not see this as a much more effective and present provision instead of these administrative measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-21.u55	I think it's important to keep that in the palette, too. For some individuals, that will be more effective than for others. The moment it becomes so concrete that it is a threat to national security, it is good to be able to act quickly. But I fully agree with Mrs De Boer: the more you focus on prevention and the more you can exclude that part, the better. Only the whole point here is that it will always be customized. One will work better than the other.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-21.u56	Thank you. We now come to the second term from the Chamber. I give the floor to Mrs De Boer on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-21.u57	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I must say that I find this second term a little difficult. The Minister has said a great deal, but also very little, because everything that has been said was, in my view, a kind of repetition of what was already in the written answers, and also with the same generalities. I couldn't get the precision I was looking for. So I'm just going to say a few words. I made the first one when I was interrupting. In a temporary law that restricts freedoms, we really need to assess the necessity, proportionality and subsidiarity of the law, not the application of the measure in the individual case. This must be done afterwards, but what we are doing here in this House is assessing the proportionality, necessity and subsidiarity of the law. I have not seen it convincingly substantiated, even when I look at the investigations that have been carried out, the Council of State and the opinions of lawyers, among others. In the examples mentioned by the Minister, she has talked very often about "ground concerns." I find well-founded concerns quite different from behavior which leads to the conclusion that an administrative measure is the only possible solution to this protection of national security. There may be an exception, but I do not see that gap between criminal law and the use of anti-radicalisation measures or a periodic penalty payment to the extent that that justifies administrative coercive measures. I have one final comment. The example the minister mentioned about the digital ban in the municipality of Utrecht led me to think. I thought: if such a ban, which actually has an upper-local effect, can be imposed by a mayor, why can't it be imposed with a normal ban on territory or a reporting obligation while there's a football game going on? So why can't the administrative measures now contained in this law simply be imposed by the mayor within the framework of his already existing powers, with the tests that apply to them? Isn't that a much simpler solution, with those guarantees, and with much less "performance pressure," to put it that way? That was a thought that occurred to me following the example the Minister mentioned, so I would like to hear an answer to that. You didn't convince me otherwise.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-21.u58	Thank you, Mrs De Boer. Mr Recourt has the floor on behalf of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-21.u59	Thank you to the Minister for the answers. I'll start with an observation on permanent and temporary. I believe that part of this debate can be explained by the fact that we are talking about the extension of a law, a temporary law, but that its justification is actually about a permanent law. Because when you say "we just need it, even if it isn't used, but who knows, it comes up sometime," we're talking about a permanent law. Those are the arguments for a permanent law. That is what my group is looking at. A temporary law is a law you need in a situation where it is topical and the danger has increased. This disappears again when you can no longer say: was it effective, is that situation still there, are there alternatives? Those are all the elements we have discussed and all the experts say: no, it is not. In short, with the glasses of a temporary law it is really not enough. With the glasses of a permanent law, so "that's convenient to have in the toolbox," you look at that differently. The examples did help, however, especially that one example of what we are talking about and what these behaviors are about. I can imagine that there is an occasional case where this might be the best solution. Still, I wonder what is actually the effect that is actually sorted out. I imagine that's when you go to that person and say, we see you, we're watching you, we know what you're doing, and you're actually being watched. I can very well imagine that that is the effective measure and not that particular stadium ban or I know what. But that aside. However, that is not enough to keep such a temporary law in the air. You really need firmer arguments for that as far as my group is concerned. Then there is the difference between criminal and administrative measures. Of course they have their own review, they can have a different purpose and they can complement each other. That's not the port of my question either. The porte of my question is: what if the board uses that administrative route to close the gap that the judge deliberately dropped? Suppose the judge in criminal law, with that solid legal protection, says, "No, we're not going to impose this. It's been requested by the district attorney, but we're not doing this." If the board says "we'll do it in the context of national security," you'll have a reversal. Despite the fact that they are two domains with their own purpose, their own review and I know what, you still have a situation that you shouldn't want. I ask the Minister whether she agrees with me and whether she would also confirm that this is not the case in that situation. In other situations, it can look after each other and have different goals. Then I made all the comments I wanted to make. I thank the Minister once again. But I will also tell her that it will not surprise me that I will advise my group to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-21.u60	Thank you, Mr Recourt. I call Mr Dittrich on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-21.u61	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thanks also to the Minister. I found some answers from the Minister enlightening. Thank you for that. I won't name them all. The problem that my group continues to have with this law is how criminal law and administrative law interact. Then I am actually referring to Mr Recourt's words. The Minister has clearly explained that the police and the Public Prosecutor's Office are also involved in this chain consultation at local level. But it may well be that the prosecution has tried to reach a certain prohibition or punishment through a criminal case and that the judge has said: well, I do not think so. Or the judge made a certain verdict. Then the same prosecutor would have a second chance, a second chance, by imposing such a ban through administrative law. I mentioned in my first term that this might be a détournement de pouvoir. I think that is a dangerous development. In addition, in criminal law preparatory acts go quite wide. The Minister has given a number of examples which I think may well be covered by criminal law. If that is brought under administrative law, then I think that is an impure course of action. That's the main objection I have to this bill. That is why I will advise my group to vote against this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-21.u62	Thank you, Mr. Dittrich. I call Mr Janssen on behalf of the SP. Would one of the messengers like to clean the speaker chair for a moment?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-21.u63	Mr President, thank you. This law is an example of how difficult it is to get something that has been temporarily introduced abolished. Saying goodbye always turns out to be very complicated. That is a good reason in general to be extremely careful with temporary laws and measures, I would say. What struck me in the debate is that national security was always the panacea for all questions of proportionality, subsidiarity and effectiveness. We didn't get much deeper than that, nor did the WODC. So that is quite complicated and that also makes it very difficult to get to the heart of a debate. Mrs. De Boer said the same thing. The mixing of punishment and governance is really a point for my group. I said that in my first term. I'm very hesitant about that. It is like a second chance, as Mr Dittrich said. Mr Recourt also noted this. I find that very complicated. I also find it complicated to say: we have a law; we do not link it to the threat level, but we must keep it. As low as that threat is, it is undesirable to link the measures to a threat level. Even if there's no threat, we still have to keep that law. That doesn't sound like temporary. My point was that the Council of State said that the Section recommends limiting the basis for particular categories of personal data to data showing religious or philosophical beliefs or any political views. That's what the Council of State said. After that, they said, "If you want more, you have to motivate it." But that seems perfectly normal in sound legislation. However, the Cabinet then writes that, following the Section's opinion in the proposed Article 7a on the processing of special personal data, this processing is limited to data showing racial or ethnic origin, political, religious or philosophical beliefs and health data. My point is that you say you are doing what the Council of State said, but they did not advise it. They have said: limit it to the other three. And if you want more, you have to motivate it. But that's different. They have said: limit it. You've made it wider. That's why my question was: why? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-21.u64	Thank you, Mr. Janssen. I call Mr Talsma on behalf of the Christian Union Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-21.u65	Mr President, thank you very much. I would also like to thank the Minister for his reply. In particular, as far as the issue of the evaluation of the law is concerned, and what you should do for it, she has given enlightening answers as far as I am concerned. Mr. Chairman. There has been much to do lately about the language in Parliament and what would be wrong and what would be wrong. I think I've been so overwhelmed by the weather that my most serious question has not been answered in the end. That question has also been asked by colleagues, so I do feel supported, but I think I said it too much. I asked: what legal status does it have? I agree with what Mr Recourt just said when the criminal court says at some point 'we are not going to do this, this is really not up to date, this is really insufficient', but then the Minister takes the next step and says he is going to do it anyway, but on the basis of a different legal title? So I apologize for the most ominous question about the state-of-the-art images that arise from it. Maybe I should say it more unparliamentaryly: it shouldn't be possible to do that. You don't know that, do you? Since my group considers this to be a very important element, I would very much like the Minister to respond to it with more than the argument that the administrative measure serves a different purpose. We very much agree with that, but I would very much appreciate it if the Minister could devote a little more and, preferably, some other words to that, because I think that legal status needs to be really clear. The thrust of the Christian Union Group's position is indeed that we should not want that. Perhaps we should speak out with each other, and I would very much appreciate it if the Minister did so, that this will also be avoided in the implementation process. Finally, Mr President. Whether this law really is going to be a keeper, that has yet to be proved. But as far as my group is concerned, there is sufficient reason to extend the probationary period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-21.u66	That was close, Mr. Talsma! Then I give the floor to Mr Doornhof on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-21.u67	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Terrorist threat is not gone, the Minister said. You heard me talk a lot yesterday and today about the threat images the NCTV gives about the possibility that terrorist attacks are still taking place. In this light, we have looked at both proposals. Now you could say two different things about the evaluation of both legislative proposals, about the power to withdraw Dutch citizenship and about the law we are talking about today. In fact, the first legislative proposal has produced a very different WODC story than the evaluation of this proposal. We all agree that if there is little use of powers, it is not so easy to carry out a proper evaluation. Through you, Mr. Chairman, I'm going to see Mr. Recourt. He gave me the opportunity to clarify my group's position on whether or not to make such a law permanent. I heard the minister. She said that it is actually a bit the same and that we are dealing here again with a temporary law because the House of Representatives temporarily thought it would go far enough. Then I'll get back to Mr Recourt. He said: do we not, de facto, have to do with the foundation of a permanent law that was ultimately designed as an extension of the earlier temporary law? I've been talking about these two laws. Eventually, of course, you'll talk about other powers. These are far-reaching powers. In the interests of our national security, the board can really do things about people who pose a danger. But in the end that is different from withdrawing Dutch citizenship, taking away a passport. In that light, my group understands that when you talk about the question permanently or temporarily, you have a law like this, with these powers, which you want earlier in the toolbox. Good examples have been mentioned in the explanatory memorandum. The Minister has just presented an oral example. You want to be able to use this to do things more often in a preliminary phase than after the criminal phase, so I'm just saying. That is not to achieve the goals that criminal law achieves, but purely to protect us from the threat of terror. Then I understand that you also say to powers as we discuss them here: put them permanently in a law. That is why I would like to say the following to the Minister. Maybe I'll close with that. There will be a very good evaluation. You made a commitment to that. You have even seen a motion passed in the House of Representatives. In that light, my group would tend to come to this Chamber, and first to the House of Representatives, with a legislative proposal that provides for the permanent creation of those powers, then to give it temporary form again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-21.u68	Thank you. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the second term? That is not the case. Then I'll suspend, on request, for a few moments.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-21.u69	I give the floor to the Minister of Justice and Security.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-21.u70	Thank you, Mr President. Of course, it hurts me so much that I couldn't convince everyone here. I had hoped that there would still be one... I have really tried my best, but I understand the considerations and I understand the objections of course as well. Mr. Chairman. I think it is good to stress one more time that this criminal law and administrative law, as everyone here, of course, knows very well, exist side by side and complement each other. Where one can't, you've got the other. That's what we've been talking about all night. I hope I've convinced enough members, but we're gonna find out. Then there is Mr Talsma's question. Now I understand, so that's okay. Sorry. I'm sorry I forgot that question. I think we're looking at it exactly the same way, at least if I can interpret it like this. Criminal law must really be used if it is possible and if it is necessary. This isn't some kind of "sort of" now I say it again in my words "back-up" where you want to bet it. This is what you're really doing for national security. When criminal law can be applied, it will simply be used. I think I also understand Mr Talsma's concern when he says that it really must exist side by side, so that it has added value when criminal law cannot be used, but national security is at risk. If I can sum it up in my own words in this way and do not deviate too much from what Mr Talsma meant, then I think we are coming to an end. Maybe Mrs De Boer's question. That was exactly the question I asked when I went into this law. Of course, the mayor has a lot of powers in his own right. Think of bans on territory and reporting obligations up to and including bans on housekeeping. Why can't you use these powers? Those are really very different bases, and so are other powers. This is really about national security. This goes far beyond the municipal boundaries. The mayor's office will focus mainly on public order and security. That is the basis for using these instruments. That's really different here. Well, we've been talking about that all night. So the question was very recognizable to me, but the answer is that it simply has completely different goals, if I may sum it up like that. Mr. Chairman. I'm not sure with my second term... yes, perhaps I've convinced Mr Recourt. Looks like it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-21.u71	We're gonna hear it. Mr Recourt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-21.u72	I do not know about the questions put by Mr Talsma and Mr Dittrich, but my question has not yet been answered by the Minister. It was not a question of using administrative and criminal law purely side by side, and always opting for criminal law if that is possible. No, the point was that if you chose criminal law and that doesn't provide the desired outcome for the board, the board is going to take an administrative measure on top of that. One loses first with the criminal court, with all the guarantees of that, and then put it into an easier procedure. My question to the Minister was: are you saying that this is not going to happen?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-21.u73	I don't know if we disagree, talk past each other or maybe say the same thing. The point is that I have tried to explain this if criminal law is not yet in a position to provide the solution. It may be that criminal law simply does not yet qualify for it. Mr Recourt says: if you have tried and failed there. I think it would rather be a matter of telling the police and the judiciary that we don't have enough to use criminal law. But you do want to be able to act in the context of protecting national security. Those two cases, administrative law and criminal law, co-exist. They complement each other in that, too. I've been trying to describe it more like a hole all night, but actually that's not fair, if we think about it again. It really is something that complements each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-21.u74	I'll try the microphone for the last time, but also my question for the last time. Again, I understand it complements each other. I get that answer. I don't have a problem with that either. It is more important that you, as a board, Mr Dittrich called it "détournement de pouvoir" or "détournement de pouvoir" or "détournement de pouvoir" or "détournement de pouvoir" or "détournement de pouvoir" or "détournement de pouvoir" or "détournement de pouvoir" or "détournement de pouvoir" or "détournement de pouvoir."
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-21.u75	Maybe we're getting closer now, but it really has a different purpose. It's not about losing it in criminal law, and then you start using administrative law for the same purpose. It really has a completely different purpose. If we pull that apart, they could exist side by side, I think. I think Mr Recourt will then be convinced. No?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-21.u76	I understand Mr Recourt's giving up, but I'm making another attempt. I do not think that Mr Dittrich's question has yet been answered either. I note, therefore, that the Minister does not rule out the fact that, if a criminal court has ruled that there is no reason to impose a special condition or ban on the territory after a sentence... I believe that the Minister is saying or implying: even if the criminal court has rejected such a request, it is possible to impose it in the context of an administrative measure. I think we just want to hear a yes or a no on that. Yeah, that's possible, or no, that's not possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-21.u77	In theory, that's possible. But the criminal court judge if anything has been proven, yes or no. In criminal law, you have a record of proven acts. Then you come before a judge and he says, "This is proven or not proven." These measures are really aimed at taking all these steps in the context of national security. If you can, you do so to the criminal court, who then says: this person is dangerous; he must be stuck, because see what he wants to do at a sports event. But you don't have enough for that. You have enough reason to say: this is dangerous; we still want to be able to intervene. Then you're gonna step in. I see that Mrs De Boer is not satisfied with it, but rather that we may have a difference of opinion. But this is the real deal.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-21.u78	But it's not an answer to the question. That's kind of my point. Yeah, if it's not proven, we've got another story. Then I find it very difficult to imagine that there is enough ground in administrative law. But we're not talking about that right now. We are talking about the situation of a criminal being sentenced, which, although the prosecution does request it, does not impose a territorial ban or a restraining order. So the measures that can be imposed under this law are rejected in the judgement of the criminal court. It's possible. The question is: can this administrative measure still be imposed, on the basis of the same acts, as a kind of second chance for the prosecution to still get a ban on contact or a ban on territory? Yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-21.u79	But it can't be yes or no in this way, because the goals are different. In criminal law, you impose such a measure, because, for example, you have to be somewhere or nowhere to be in the context of research. The goal is different. I can imagine Mrs De Boer saying: I do not agree with that. But the goal is not always about national security. With this set of measures, yes. That's the difference. That's why I can't say yes or no in black and white. Because I can't confuse the goals.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-21.u80	I note, then, that the answer is yes. Maybe one last time: I'm not talking about a remand, either, because then the targets are different. I agree. I'm talking about the final conviction. Then a restraining order can be imposed precisely to protect safety, or a person, or national security. So as far as I'm concerned, the targets are the same. I think the answer is clear, namely that the Minister does not want to say that it cannot be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-21.u81	I don't think it's gonna make much sense if I repeat it again.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-21.u82	Thank you, Minister. I will close the debate and come to the finalisation of the bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-21.u83	Does one of the Members wish to vote on the bill? That's the case. Then I suggest that after the break we vote on the bill. Then I shall suspend the sitting for the break until 10.20 p.m., so that the Registry can draw up a voting list, which will then be distributed. The vote will take place after the suspension. So they will take place at 10.20 p.m.
