ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-11.u1	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the legislative proposal 35737, the proposal for the law of Members Paternotte, Kicken, Ellemeet and Van Wijngaarden to amend the law on the termination of pregnancy in connection with the abolition of the mandatory minimum period of consideration for the termination of pregnancy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-11.u2	I give the floor to Mr Paternotte.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-11.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you very much for the opportunity to speak in your Chamber today. In the process of an initiative law, the time of the examination in the First Chamber, its defense, is always the most important moment. That is all the more true because it is the first time for me and for Mrs Ellemeet that we can defend an initiative law in your midst. Mrs Kuik has done this a number of times before. Thank you for that. Mr. Chairman. At the same time, it has been four decades since there was a major material change to the Law of Abruption pregnancy here. 38 years ago, the Law on Abrupt Pregnancy came into force and it required a lot of dialogue at the time. That was also the case before that law came into being in 1981. I looked back at exactly how that debate went at the time, on 28 April 1981. It was a special debate, because there were some famous senators such as Hedy d'Ancona of the Labour Party, Boy Trip, the former PPR Minister, Jan van der Jagt, the GPV group chairman who sat here for almost fifteen years and was always adorned with a bow tie, and Jan Glastra van Loon. In that debate, Mrs Leyten-De Wijkerslooth of the CDA spoke out her maiden speech, in which she pointed out that that law had a turbulent history, also because of the fact that there had been six previous laws of initiative that had been stranded, mostly in the Lower House and once in the Upper Chamber. I quote her: 'My group also realises that it too has to assess the draft law before us in the light of what has already been said and written, also on the other side of the Binnenhof, and is aware of all the efforts already made to settle the abortion problem, but which have been broken in the Lower Chamber or in the First Chamber.' At the time, there was also a wide-ranging debate on the mandatory period of reflection. PSP Senator Joop Vogt was critical. Compared to the practice now established, however, we are clearly declining qualitatively, he said. The five-day reflection period can in some cases be very burdensome, discriminatory for women, or at least seen by a very large number of women. At the time, the law was passed in your Chamber with 38 votes in favour and 37 votes against. Today, we are happy to discuss this law with your Chamber and the mandatory period of reflection. On this side, I would also like to wish Mrs Gerkens and our co-initiator both the best of luck to Mr Van Wijngaard and to thank all the spokesmen for their questions and the attention they have given to the legislative proposal, including in the written round. We will, of course, do our best to answer all the questions as best we can. There are three of us here without Mr Van Wijngaarden. We will all take part in the answer, so let me start by giving you the railway book. Mrs Ellemeet answers all the questions relating to the professionalism of care. In doing so, she also raises the questions as to what exactly this law will mean for the procedure to be followed and for the doctor's job. Mrs Kuik will answer the questions that have been asked about the social basis, the role of the man, who has also been on the subject, the legal aspects. She will include other reflection periods mentioned in the debate, both in the medical field and in private law, and she will answer the questions about the implementation of the legislative amendment and the evaluation of the law. I begin by answering the questions about the cause and the intended outcome of our proposed legislative amendment, the balance in the law between protecting unborn life and caring for women in an emergency situation, the culture related to aborting pregnancy, and the answer to questions about scientific justification. If we have to say once or twice that another initiator has to answer the question, then excuse in advance. Mr. Chairman. I should like to begin by answering the question on the basis of this initiative. In particular, Mr Van Dijk specifically asked for this in his speech. At the time of entry into force in 1984, to which I referred, the legislator considered that creating the balance between caring for a woman and the protection of unborn life required the mandatory minimum period of five days of reflection. These five days would ensure that the woman would make an informed choice. In fact, it is implied that without those five days the choice would not be careful or considered in sufficient cases. This assumption appears to be incorrect, as it has repeatedly proved since the adoption of the law 38 years ago that a fixed mandatory period of at least five days is not necessary to make an informed choice. That is what the 2005 and 2020 legal assessments show, because they both advise to abolish that fixed period of reflection. Mr De Vries of the Otten Group pointed out in his speech that in 2012 the World Health Organisation had the same opinion to all countries with a mandatory period of reflection, namely to remove this period of reflection. Therefore, the mandatory period of reflection does not achieve the intended objective. In addition, we see that it does lead to adverse effects. The mandatory period of reflection causes negative effects on the emotional well-being of women and causes psychological complaints. It also mentioned something that could not be foreseen in 1984. Due to the mandatory period of reflection, there are also limits at stake, which sometimes require a more severe procedure in order to break down pregnancy. As a result, women are restricted in their treatment options. This in turn leads to a greater risk of complications and therefore less good care for women. On the other hand, professional assistance and good support for women in need do contribute to making an informed choice. Therefore, the initiators aim to change the fixed period of reflection to the flexible period of reflection. It recognizes that every situation is different. We believe this contributes to tailor-made care. The woman determines in conversation and with the help of doctors how much time she needs to reach a decision. With this change of law, there is therefore plenty of room for a shorter or longer reflection period. The period of reflection therefore remains, albeit not legally, five days. That is the essence of what we are arguing. Mr Van Gurp asked whether we had also considered removing the period of reflection entirely from the law. We have tried to stay very close to the evaluations and, moreover, to what the Council of State recommended. For example, the first review of the law states that there should be such a reflection period as is necessary in order to reach an informed decision in the circumstances. The evaluations show that this is also the wish of the professional field. We therefore believe that a flexible period of reflection is more appropriate than a complete abolition of that period of reflection. Mr. Chairman. Questions have been asked about what this says about our culture. For example, Mr Van Dijk said that this proposal would facilitate the termination of pregnancy. They asked what impact this has on culture. This is more of a normalization of pregnancy termination, if I may paraphrase him like that. We like to give that reflection. The proposers consider that a pregnancy break-up cannot be seen as an isolated element, because it concerns the whole of good sexual and reproductive health care. Sexual education and accessible contraception together contribute to preventing unwanted pregnancy. That is also an important consideration which Mrs Vos and Mr Dittrich pointed out. Looking at the Netherlands, we see that the figures for pregnancy breaks have been stable for years. Compared to countries with comparable levels of registration, these figures are relatively low. In this respect, therefore, we do not believe that there is a trend towards normalization of pregnancy break-up. In fact, in this respect, we agree with what Mr Kox said. There still seems to be a taboo in the Netherlands to talk about a situation in which a woman has had to abort pregnancy. Rather, we believe that it will benefit the provision of care if there is no longer a taboo and if there is more open discussion about it. But the fact that there is a taboo does say something about the fact that there has been no standardisation in our view. Mr Van Gurp asked whether the initiators considered that termination of pregnancy should be part of criminal law. We have, of course, talked about this. We note that this issue is of a very different order from the law as we have now presented it. The idea of putting the legislation on abortion into a completely different legal framework is, of course, something other than the substantive change that we are proposing today. We defend the law here on behalf of the House of Representatives. So, in that sense, I can imagine that the subject will certainly come back, but what we personally consider to be a little less important today. What we are saying is part of the reflection, I say to Mr Van Dijk, is the following. It is wrongly said that converting a mandatory period of reflection into a flexible period of reflection leads to the idea that many thresholds are being removed and that the termination of pregnancy becomes much easier. We have the idea that the qualitative guarantees, as they are listed in Article 5 of the law and have all been incorporated in almost 200 pages of guidelines of the Dutch Association for Obstetrie and Gynaecology and the Dutch Society of Abortion Doctors, aim for a very large part to ensure that there is a careful consideration on the basis of the decision to break down pregnancy. That's a very difficult decision. The compulsory period of reflection also has a very little influence on the decision, which is why we do not think it will remove the threshold, but will improve care.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-11.u4	I have made the necessary comments on making abortion more accessible and accessible through the legislative proposal. Mr Paternotte cannot, of course, deny that until now, every woman, when she comes and reports to a clinic for the first time, gets a package of information, perhaps an echo et cetera, and then the guarantee of five days' thought-out period. If this bill goes through, it could be: you report in the morning for an abortion, and the same morning you get an abortion. It does make it easier and more accessible, and one could say that it is working on further standardisation, as if it were a simple thing that could happen as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-11.u5	If Mr Van Dijk's scenario here were to be the order of the day, then perhaps we could go with him a little bit. Mrs Ellemeet will deal with the question of how this will be done in the near future. But the principle is that a doctor must always establish that there is an informed decision, and there are all kinds of safeguards that are also set out in Article 5 (2) of the Act. There is also the fact that it is reflected in the Treatment Directive. Mrs Ellemeet will explain in a moment how this will lead to the scenario presented by Mr Van Dijk not being very likely, especially when a woman who arrives at that conversation has not yet thought about it. In other words, the practice remains the same, except for the mandatory five days. But the principle that doctors and women make an agreement together on the flexible period of reflection does occur instead, also in the interests of the same awareness that must remain.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-11.u6	I am listening very carefully to Mr Paternotte's reply. My point is this. I usually know the D66 members as very reasonable people. Isn't the balance lost, I'm gonna let it fly like that when, if you want a modest nose correction, you're dealing with a legal period of reflection? If you have to go under anesthesia, there's even a week's thought-out period. But for an abortion that, as you yourself say, has an impact, you don't just do that. Your bill makes it possible for you to report and, so to speak, get an abortion on the spot. Is the balance not lost, if I put it next to it, but an example: a modest plastic-surgical adjustment?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-11.u7	No. All the research shows that women do not think lightly about aborting pregnancy, because in many cases it is the most difficult decision they have had to make in their lives. It is also evident from the legal assessments we read that women indicate that they often think about this before they have that conversation. Because this flexible period of reflection requires a conscious choice by saying that it will determine how much time it takes to reach that informed decision, there are all these safeguards. I can, of course, list them, but it is not for nothing that a profession such as abortion care, as Mr Van Dijk said in the debate itself, is highly regarded and has a high quality in the Netherlands. That is because it is incredibly important to ensure that it is the right choice, precisely because of the importance that Mr Van Dijk and we both share in that regard.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-11.u8	Finally, Mr Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-11.u9	This is my last time. I note that you did so earlier when it came to the evaluations........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ It strikes me precisely how high the percentage of caregivers, abortion doctors, gynecologists and aid workers is that is positive about the reflection, in order to avoid impulsive decisions. So keep that space for reflection and reflection.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-11.u10	There has to be that room for reflection. That is part of the essence of our proposal. However, it is good to note that the period of reflection in the event of termination of pregnancy is the only legally established medical period. Mr Van Dijk just mentioned the example of the nose correction. Of course, you can say that this is a trivial example, but there is no legal provision that makes this subject subject subject to a period of reflection. That period of reflection applies only to the choice of termination of pregnancy and therefore automatically only to women. Mr. Chairman. I come to the questions that have been asked about the balance sheet. Mr Van Dijk specifically pointed out this, but more broadly, Mrs Prins, Mr Van Dijk and Mr Verkerk spoke about the balance, which also refers to the debate 40 years ago, which would be in the law between the protection of unborn life and the care of women who are in an emergency because of their unwanted pregnancy. It is the two pillars of the law. The question is: will there be a balance between these two pillars? Since the protection of unborn life is of particular importance, the termination of pregnancy has, unlike all other medical interventions, an entirely separate legal framework, namely this law. It is also a good thing that there is a law and that special safeguards are laid down in that law for the termination of pregnancy. However, the question is to what extent a certain part of the mandatory fixed period of consideration in the Abrupt Pregnancy Act is basic to the balance between these pillars. I think it is difficult to objectify this because, of course, there is a strong degree of appreciation for it, because it is a political issue. There are no quantitative indicators to actually judge the goal achievement of the Abrupt Pregnancy Act. We, as proposers, are convinced that the balance lies in the role of the doctor and the requirement of care in the law, which has subsequently been worked out in the directives. The role of the doctor in this is therefore a very important one. The discussion between the doctor and the woman about her wish, about exploring her motives and whether they have been made without pressure from the outside and deliberately, is intended precisely to shape the balance between help for the woman in an emergency situation and the protection of the unborn fruit.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-11.u11	I can imagine a great deal about what Mr Paternotte says about balance. When I look at the figures, there is not just a lot to conclude from what we know about the effect of that conversation and its outcome. But you can also say: if you want to talk about a balance of interests, time can be a quality parameter. So it is not the result of this balancing of interests. This is done regularly in legal processes. It is then said that there is a balance of interests, then there must also be time for that balance. One argument for this is that you say: in that conversation with the doctor, substantive questions are raised and I can only imagine that women do so very much. It would also do me a great deal as a man if my wife wanted an abortion. From a procedural point of view, it would be a good quality parameter to say: after such a conversation you will at least build some time to do that balancing again, given the conversation. I am not arguing here for five days; that is not the point. But at least some time. Maybe you can reflect on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-11.u12	Not every situation is the same. I think Mr Verkerk is right; that would also be my assessment. But it's also hard to say as a man that I know exactly how I'd feel if I were in those shoes. But you won't care about the conversation because it's a very special conversation. It is not for nothing a conversation that doctors have guidelines for and which they pay special attention to in their training, because they have to do a lot in that conversation. They must comply with the safeguards laid down in the law. They must determine whether an informed decision has been taken. And if that is not the case yet, or if they detect or detect doubt, then they must make an agreement on a period of reflection to be observed. It will probably be a little longer than in case they feel that there is no doubt. At the same time you could say: what is the disadvantage of waiting? Of course, it's not just about anything, but there are certain disadvantages. A woman who has made that decision and is behind it can suffer a great deal if she is then forced to wait another five days. In some situations it may also lead to someone having to undergo a heavier procedure. Of course, that's not light business. It's both cases that put pressure on the care of these women in an emergency. Those are additional arguments for us to say that a more flexible period of reflection is better for the good and special conversation between doctor and woman than for you as a legislator to say that it is always five days.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-11.u13	Finally, Mr. Verkerk.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-11.u14	I can imagine what you're saying, also because you might fall into another regime. Nevertheless, in law it is common practice that, even if the arguments have been exchanged, there is deliberately a rest period, a waiting period, before a decision is taken. That's what judges do, especially in more complicated cases. They therefore take the time to think things over carefully. I only mention this point from the point of view of quality. Quality is necessary when it comes to the process of balancing interests.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-11.u15	I get the point. Of course, you also referred to the WRR report. Mrs Ellemeet will deal with this later. This question deserves special attention, of course, because it is really about: what is the concern and what process is going on with each other? If we have not come to an end now, Mrs Ellemeet will say a few words about this later.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-11.u16	Mr. Van Gurp.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-11.u17	I need your help, Mr. Chairman. I wanted to put a question to him at Mr Verkerk's interruption. Is that okay? Or should I ask Mr Verkerk the question through you and Mr Paternotte?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-11.u18	You can ask Mr Verkerk a question when he will be speaking in his term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-11.u19	So it's not his interruption. Then I'll do it differently. Then I'll ask the initiators through you. Mr Verkerk says that it is not the five days that matter to him, but that he is concerned that there is a period of reflection. Doesn't the initiators agree that this is very close to their proposal? You are not suggesting that I have sometimes challenged you to do so, but you did not accept that in order to delete the whole period of reflection. There will remain a period of reflection, but we will no longer record how long it will take. Is that not, in the opinion of the initiators, very close to what Mr Verkerk is proposing?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-11.u20	I think it's in the term "thought through." Mr Dittrich sketched the picture, as in the poem of Annie M.G. Schmidt, that thinking and perhaps sleepless nights start almost immediately, that at some point the conversation with the doctor follows and that is the formal moment that the period of reflection starts to run. But that's never gonna be the moment the thinking starts. The moment the woman finds out she's unwantedly pregnant, the thought process is triggered. But I see that that was not what Mr Van Gurp was looking for in his attempt to interrupt Mr Verkerk.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-11.u21	Perhaps I will do it again when Mr Verkerk has the floor. I have the impression that what he's saying is much closer to what you're saying than he might think. Of course, he doesn't want to, but I really thought I'd hear it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-11.u22	It would be nice if you could bring that closer together later. However, I acknowledge that it is a good thing that we both note the importance of this awareness and that Mr Verkerk indicates that a period of reflection should not necessarily be five days. Absolutely. Mr. Chairman. I come to the scientific research on which our initiative proposal is based. A number of questions have been asked by Mrs Prins, Mr Verkerk and Mr Van Dijk on the 2020 legislative review. First of all, it is good to point out that we have based this proposal not only on the second review of the law, but also on the first review of the law, from 2005, and many other scientific studies. Both evaluations recommend that the mandatory period of reflection be abolished. For example, in the first evaluation, from 2005, it says: "It is recommended to include in the law that there should always be such a reflection period as is necessary in order to reach an informed decision in the circumstances. Accordingly, Article 16 of the Law on Abruption of Pregnancy, which concerns the criminalisation of the doctor in the event of failure to comply with the period of reflection, could be deleted." The second evaluation also makes it clear that a fixed period of reflection has disadvantages and is the advice to delete them. It says: "This evaluation again shows that a fixed period of reflection causes friction in a number of cases, in particular if it threatens to exceed certain deadlines, while caregivers and women, including self-regulation, prove to have a sufficiently long reflection period, even without a fixed legal period of reflection. Therefore, and in the light of the World Health Organization's advice on access to abortion, the researchers recommend that the VWS Minister review whether the benefits of a fixed period of reflection outweigh the disadvantages and, if not, allow them to lapse."
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-11.u23	I have another question about this, because it is an opinion that is being given, unlike the other recommendations. It gives me the impression that you have actually taken up an opinion on this matter as a concrete recommendation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-11.u24	This legislative process has a long history and you will also find that investigation in the explanatory memorandum. Moreover, in addition to this opinion from the second evaluation, an opinion from the first evaluation and the advice of the World Health Organisation are also based on several scientific studies. These bring us together to the conviction that it is wise to introduce this flexible period of reflection.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-11.u25	What stopped you from first asking the Secretary of State for VWS for that investigation? That opinion of the second evaluation was based on more experience with this law and was actually a little more nuanced. Now it becomes an opinion and is no longer a recommendation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-11.u26	We have incorporated this research into our own initiative proposal. I get that Mrs. Prince says... I would also like to say a few words about the fact that there were, of course, relatively fewer respondents in a particular category, namely women who had had a pregnancy break-up themselves, in the second evaluation sub-study than in the first evaluation. Some would say: go back to research. I think it is good to try to do better at that particular point in the next evaluation and to involve more respondents. Only if we look at the whole picture will that actually be a summing-up of the first and second assessments, of the advice of the World Health Organization, of a long series of scientific studies and also of a trend that you see in Western countries that have decided to stop that mandatory period of reflection. France was mentioned in the first period. Spain intends to do so. They therefore draw a similar conclusion to that proposed initiative, namely that it is better to work with either a flexible period of reflection or without it. On this basis, we have noted that it is good to submit this proposal first to the House of Representatives and now to your Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-11.u27	Mrs. Prince, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-11.u28	I still have a question about that. You mention several other scientific studies. I haven't been able to find it so quickly, but I suppose you can certainly appeal to it. But the question is how can it be that various drivers of abortion clinics have explicitly said that this is not wise?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-11.u29	Mrs Kuik will discuss this later in the debate on the issue of public acceptance. That is a question you had indeed asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-11.u30	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-11.u31	Mr Verkerk has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-11.u32	Mr Paternotte also referred to the first evaluation. What stands out in the first evaluation is that there has indeed been a piece of survey research. What we all know is that survey research brings up important numbers, but it's always very difficult how to interpret them exactly. If you want to interpret it exactly, you have to do real depth research, quality research, interviews with women. None of that happened during the initial evaluation. Now, if you look at the dates of the first evaluation, I can also imagine, with a wink to Mr Van Gurp, that you can say: flexibilisation means a minimum period between two and five days. I'm just gonna mention something. If you say that flexibilisation can go so far that in certain cases it is zero days, then I cannot escape the impression that the data in the interpretation is somewhat stretched; let me put it this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-11.u33	It is, of course, a bit difficult to discuss the methodology of the evaluation with an emeritus professor who criticizes the conclusions drawn by the researchers in the first evaluation. After all, we have said that these researchers have done this research on behalf of the government, and they have attached very clear advice to it. We are convinced that this opinion is the right advice. That is also what we are saying on the basis of many other scientific studies that point in the same direction. But it seems difficult to me to exceed Mr Verkerk here in a debate on the way in which a particular survey is being looked at. I think he has spent more years at the university in this respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-11.u34	Let's say I'm doing you justice and I've actually spent more time there. That could tempt you to listen to this, for the first time. But, more fundamentally, these are basic starting points or basic elements for this legislation. That means that I find it too easy when you say: I'm just drawing the conclusion and I'm not going to look at the underlying data from the conclusions. As scientists, I am still a scientist, because we always do, precisely because we say: yes, there is a conclusion, but I want to see what that conclusion means. So in all honesty, I find this too easy. I would appreciate it if you could say a little more about that, if you manage to do so without repeating it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-11.u35	Mrs Baay-Timmerman also asked about the investigations from America to which reference was made, because she herself said that there are 26 American states, including Arizona, Texas and Utah, which work with a period of reflection. A lot of research is being done on that. A lot of research has been done on it. One of the investigations we cited was from the Jacobs Institute of Women's Health at The George Washington University. This concerns the three-day period in the State of Utah, which has existed there for a long time. We have seen a survey in which 74% of respondents indicate that there is no change in the certainty of the decision during the waiting period. In the majority of cases where something did change in the certainty, you can see that women only became more secure. There was a small group of doubters, 8%, but they also doubted at the first visit to the doctor. That is very much in line with the survey from the first evaluation we are talking about, because there too you can see that the small group of doubters does not change very much during the period of reflection. In other words, if these investigations point in the same direction, it strengthens us in the idea that the compulsory period of reflection does not add up to enough and therefore does not make the difference to ensure that the compulsory period of reflection would lead to an informed decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-11.u36	I will return to this in my second term. I still like to listen to the other arguments you put forward. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-11.u37	Mrs Baay-Timmerman specifically asked about the figures. She asked, "What is "the vast majority"? That's what I was trying to tell you. Three quarters say that there has actually been no effect of the period of reflection. Of the rest, the vast majority say they've only become more secure. Of the doubters, who were already in doubt at the first visit, the doubt remained. There must be room for that, but they will probably also have needed a longer period of time. The researchers recommend that personal guidance for this small group of doubters is better than universal requirements for all women. That, in our view, means that the best way to achieve this is to introduce a flexible period of reflection. Mr. Chairman. Mr Verkerk and Mr Van Dijk also referred to how a majority of caregivers consider that a reflection period prevents an impulsive decision. Now we, as proposers, believe that a flexible period of reflection can help to make an informed choice. Mrs Ellemeet will go into more detail about how doctors are already dealing with ensuring a careful decision. I myself would like to point out that in the same partial study to which reference is made, it also states that a large part of the carers see disadvantages of the period of reflection, namely that it is too rigid, that women perceive it as burdensome and that it has adverse consequences because the limits can be at stake. 70% of these abortion doctors, gynecologists and nurses indicate that they sometimes encounter problems due to the fixed period of reflection. What we read as proposers is that the second evaluation shows that the vast majority of interviewees were, of course, quite a lot of caregivers who were part of the study in the second evaluation, mostly see a flexible period of reflection. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Prins has asked questions about the other recommendations. She said that other recommendations were also made in the second evaluation. Her question is, why didn't you make a law out of that? We think it is very important that these recommendations are put to work. That's what's gonna happen. The Minister has already indicated in the House of Representatives, in the Committee debate on Medical Ethics, that he comes after the summer with a vision on the care of pregnancy break-ups, and that he also comes with a cabinet response to the evaluation. That is why we are setting this up in a debate with the Minister. We have also asked about the quality standards and a response to the second evaluation, I say on behalf of the House of Representatives. This is just not all we can grasp in one piece of legislation. This is, of course, also due to the fact that some of the recommendations, Mrs Prins mentioned, are many of them at policy level and that other recommendations are of a different order than this particular issue. It is not for nothing that in this evaluation, in the previous evaluation, in fact over the last 40 years and even in the debate that took place at the time in the First Chamber, this five-day consultation period was a very specific issue which, over and over again, is reflected in the assessment of the law and, as far as we are concerned, should be an independent legislative proposal. Mr. Chairman. I am therefore through the questions I wanted to answer myself in this answer in the first term. I would like to ask you to give Mrs Ellemeet the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-11.u38	Thank you, Mr. Paternotte. Then Mr Van Dijk has one more question for you, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-11.u39	One brief informative question. D66 has taken up this treatment of the law very quickly. The First Chamber has also contributed to this. D66 is a coalition partner. One of the agreements in the coalition agreement is: we are committed to fewer abortions. Can I count on D66 to pick that up with equal speed?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-11.u40	Yes. I could say that I am constitutionally standing here on behalf of the entire House of Representatives, but let me tell you this. Yes, what I personally liked about the coalition agreement, which I cannot say on behalf of the two neighbours here, is that it includes more attention for contraception, for example by making it more widely available, including for people who would not be able to pay for it themselves. This is based on the same principle that you want to be able to prevent unwanted pregnancies as much as possible. Several people here have also asked questions about this to the Minister, so I assume that he will say a few things about government policy in this area.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-11.u41	Thank you. Then I would like to give the floor to Mrs Ellemeet.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-11.u42	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I too would like to begin by thanking your Chamber for the opportunity to speak here. I think that is very honorable, and very special because we are here today with this initiative law. I also hope, let me just say, that it is not the last time that I am allowed to be guests here with an initiative law. I think it is particularly special that it is with this law, because good abortion care is very important to me. I also feel a great deal of commitment to the subject in your Chamber, both to those who support it and to those who criticize it. It's very nice to see that. I like it, because the debate is being held very respectfully. That's what we did in the House of Representatives. I think that such a subject deserves no less than that respect of all of us. It also does justice to the great social involvement. As Mr Paternotte said, it has been there for a long time, in fact, before this law was introduced in the early 1980s. Let me remind everyone of the great demonstration that was at the Dam. It was a really big demonstration. I believe that at the time, there were 100,000 women on the streets, precisely because of this period of reflection. Before I start answering the questions, I would also like to say that you all know with me that it is so special and so valuable that this is the place where all the differences of opinion come together. We see too often in our society that everyone is in their own bubble. It is so valuable that we have the debate here and also share those differences of opinion. Despite these differences, I do see two important similarities in this Chamber, namely the desire to have a careful debate. I shall now go into this more fully. Mr. Chairman. Mr Paternotte has argued why, in our opinion, the mandatory five-day period of reflection does not contribute to the provision of good care, but a flexible period of reflection does. I would like to reflect on how good care is then guaranteed and how a flexible period of reflection has a place in it. As you all know, the requirements for abortion are set out in Article 5 of the Abrupt Pregnancy Act. A woman should choose voluntarily, carefully and aware of the consequences for abortion. She herself must have come to the conclusion that there is an emergency situation for her. Some of your members, including Mrs Baay, Mr Kox, Mr Dittrich and Mrs Vos, also referred to the concept of informed consent. That is a very well-known concept for all caretakers, because it comes back to all care. One could say that it is the basic principle of decision-making in healthcare. And you could also say that the requirements of Article 5 of the Abrupt Pregnancy Act, which I just mentioned, are actually specifications for abortion of this basic principle. This is about careful weighing. All the members of your Chamber stressed the importance of this. The supervision of the doctor in contact with the woman in the case of abortion is aimed at checking this out and, if necessary, achieving it. For this purpose, a very comprehensive guidance directive has been drawn up by a broad working group. That working group includes abortion doctors, lawyers, ethicists and other healthcare professionals, to also do justice to all the dimensions that this guidance has. So all the relevant elements relating to that informed consent relating to abortion are included in that directive. I would like to mention a few here. There is the test of whether the woman is sure of her decision. There is the test as if there is no coercion. There is the test of whether it has sufficient social support. And what if there isn't? And there's the test of fear. In all these elements, i.e. in the doctor's tests, the doctor bases himself on verbal, but also on non-verbal expressions of the woman. And in many cases the doctor has a woman in front of her who has already gone through a process of careful weighing before talking to the doctor. Thinking about whether or not to be pregnant has already started in many women. A lot of women think about that before they're pregnant. Do I want to get pregnant? Do I want a child? So that thought has started before. The interview with the doctor then has for many women this does not apply to all women... a confirmatory outcome of the process that she has already gone through herself. And the conversation also has an informative function. Because a part of informed consent is of course also that you are informed about the different treatment options available. What information and guidance the woman gets depends on where she is in that thinking process. The directive on abortion doctors states that 73% of women have already made their decision. At that time, women often do not need a review of their motives, but mainly want information about the intervention. It must have sufficient knowledge of this treatment, so that you can really talk about informed consent. The doctor then gives the woman the information about these treatment options, so that the woman can also make a deliberate choice. Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Dijk and Mr Verkerk also stressed the importance of providing good information on alternatives. Now it is true that care is widespread, and also from the WGBO, the Law on Medical Treatment Agreement, needs to be tailored to the needs of women. That is also about aligning and informing about those alternatives. So the role of the abortion doctor is here supporting the need of the woman. The doctor asks the woman if she has considered alternatives. If it is clear that she has considered those alternatives, the doctor can leave it at that. If that leads to a more extensive discussion of these alternatives, then of course the doctor will do the same. Mr. Chairman. Another element in that process is about determining the start of pregnancy. That's what Mrs Baay asked for. Who's gonna determine it and when's that gonna happen? In fact, that determination is based on an echo. So the ultrasound determines the start of pregnancy. So the doctor is involved and the woman is of course informed about this. So based on the ultrasound, it can be determined when pregnancy has begun.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-11.u43	I understand that an ultrasound is used to see when the pregnancy actually started. But I asked the question when the period of reflection would start legally according to this bill. Is that when the woman finds out she's pregnant by any means? Or is that only after an indication from a doctor?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-11.u44	Excuse me. I would have misunderstood your question. Indeed, with our legislative proposal, we are aiming at a flexible period of reflection. The doctor will talk to the woman. As I pointed out earlier, many women have already thought about this and have already considered what they want. Then it may still be true that a woman says: well, I want to think about it even longer. Then the doctor, together with the woman, can determine that more time is taken. But it may also be that if the doctor and the woman find out that there has been good thought about it and that the woman has come to an informed decision, that is sufficient. It is precisely this flexibility that allows us to establish this with each other. I therefore believe that it is no longer necessary to determine specifically when the woman has started to think about it if there is a flexible period of reflection. Actually, it's more about what's still needed in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-11.u45	Then I'll try to sum it up for myself. Suppose a woman knows about a month and a half she's pregnant, obviously thought about it, and comes to a doctor. Then the moment she comes to the doctor is, in fact, only when the period of reflection starts?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-11.u46	No, what we want is a flexible period of reflection. So the question when the period of reflection starts is of course relevant when you have a minimum period of reflection, because then you have to have a start and an end point. This is no longer necessary in the context of the flexible period of reflection, but of course we also say that the doctor must check with the woman whether there has been sufficient thought and whether the woman has been able to reach an informed decision. But that mandatory starting and closing period, which you do have at a minimum period of reflection, does not apply in this way when it comes to a flexible period of reflection.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-11.u47	No, it's obvious to me. So it is not, as I said in my contribution, a specific benchmark either. It is precisely because it is flexible that it does not really matter whether a woman has thought about it for three weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-11.u48	Yeah, exactly. Mr. Chairman. So far, I have explained the situation for women who have already thought carefully about it and know what they want. However, some of your Members have rightly also considered women for whom this is different, for example, who are in a vulnerable position or who have a complex situation. Of course, I would also like to dwell on this in detail. Because there are also those: women who are in a complex or vulnerable situation. Some of your members, including Mrs Prins and Mr Van Dijk and Mr Verkerk, rightly stressed that perhaps many but not all women can reach a well-considered decision in a short time. I share with them the importance of a very careful process for these women. I would therefore like to join with Mr De Vries in saying that the quality of abortion care has everything to do with the quality of the discussion. The directive and the practice of abortion care show that the conversation is conducted in such a way that all possible signs of vulnerability are passed by. There are many indicators of a fragile situation, for example stress. I'm going to think about that a little bit more. But all those safeguards and elements, which have also been extensively discussed and set out in that directive, are certainly also intended to detect that vulnerability. So if there is vulnerability, then the doctor is equipped to detect it. I would like to mention a number of these indicators. Some of your members mentioned stress. What's it like when you're really stressed out? Can you come to a decision at that time? Stress is an indicator of ambivalent feelings or doubts. That is how we can read it in the directive. At the time an abortion doctor detects that, she or he will adapt the guidance to that as well. For example, the doctor can opt for implication guidance to help the woman understand the consequences of the decision for herself and the hair and to go through it properly. This form of guidance is most common. This obviously means that sufficient time will be taken to do so, otherwise you will not be able to do so carefully. But there are also other forms of guidance. Similarly, support can be chosen because, for example, women do not experience sufficient emotional support. Finally, psychological guidance can also be provided, whether or not by the doctor himself. The doctor can also refer. Mr. Chairman. Stress can also have other causes. For example, it is particularly stressful for women from communities where pregnancy breaks are not accepted, because, for example, shame can also be added. During the decision-making process, the aid workers try to signal fear, shame and guilt. Behaviour is an important indicator. I told you, it's about a woman's verbal expressions, but it's also about the non-verbal signals being given. They must also be noted and discussed. Doctors are very keen on stress and pay a lot of attention to this. But with all the recommendations, it can always be read that when there is stress, a woman needs extra guidance. That is exactly what we, as proposers, think is necessary. This also automatically means that the decision will not take place on the same day. We can already see in the figures that a certain percentage of women take more than five days to reflect on, because it takes time to weigh carefully, to relieve stress and to ensure that there is sufficient support. That is what I am saying to Mrs Prins and Mrs Baay, who asked for it. In addition to stress, ambivalent feelings and doubt can also be an indicator of the vulnerable situation of women. If the doctor signals doubt, the guidance will also be intensified. This is also reflected in the directive. Then the different forms of guidance I mentioned are possible. Doctors also look closely at experienced social support and the social context. This is not just about presenting the social context, but also about offering and realising the right aid if there is insufficient social support, as the recommendation also shows. I quote: "During the counseling interview, questions are asked about the experience of social support. If women do not experience sufficient social support, her guidance will be offered and realised if desired." Finally, there is also extensive consideration when there is a suspicion of violence. For example, the manual and the directive state that part of the conversation must always take place in private, because sometimes there may also be pressure from people present at the conversation. All these cases show that abortion doctors go very far in their care for vulnerable women. As I said, you could say, if you go through this directive completely, with all the elements that are part of that good conversation that is taking place, that it is specifically about detecting possible vulnerability, not just talking through it but looking through it. I quote from the directive once again: 'The behaviour of women can be an indication to the aid worker that emotions such as fear, shame or guilt play a role. It is recommended that these non-verbal signals are also noted and discussed." Mr. Chairman. In my view, this shows that abortion doctors are very alert and pay a lot of attention, and rightly so, to women's vulnerability. Mr Verkerk and Mr Van Dijk also referred to the WRR report Weten has not yet done anything to underline the importance of sufficient attention to vulnerability. We cannot and must not assume that no woman is in a vulnerable position. Of course, a lot of women are not vulnerable, but it is also about the group that is. This vulnerability requires good support and tailor-made work and the right expertise from the doctor to deal with it properly. Doctors identify vulnerability and then provide appropriate help. Appropriate help is actually always made up of extra guidance. It helps to provide extra care and that is exactly what doctors do: providing tailor-made and good care that matches the needs and wishes of individual women.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-11.u49	Were you there at the end of your term or would you like to finish?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-11.u50	This is a good time for questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-11.u51	I think I'm on the right block and the right subject right now. I have a question about what happens if this law is passed, and what this means for the doctors' practice. How do they know that this period has become flexible? Is that included in a directive? How is that communicated? I was reminded when I heard former Minister Bussemaker thinking that years ago she had thought that the five-minute registration should be abolished and that this had still not landed in practice. So I'm curious, I don't know if you can answer, or if the Minister is going to communicate to all doctors that there's a flexible period of thought. How long will that take?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-11.u52	I was going to come back to that at the end, but what I can say about it now is that we are working on a revision of the directive, so that is very convenient. If your Chamber decides that this bill is a good idea, it can be incorporated into that directive. But I can also imagine that the Minister can go into more detail about what can be done from his ministry to bring this to the attention of all healthcare providers. It is, of course, about abortion doctors, but it is also about other care providers who refer women, for example.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-11.u53	Another supplementary question. We will probably soon be discussing the other bill on the medical termination of pregnancies. Is there going to be waiting for that bill to be passed, or not? Or is the directive already being amended?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-11.u54	The directive is currently being amended, so that is not to be expected.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-11.u55	Mrs Ellemeet has devoted a great deal of praise and detail to the high-level discussion of abortion doctors and everything that is given to women and how they are helped. I don't want to take any of that away. But just when you take that seriously and see that great added value of it, can't it be different that such a period of reflection doesn't start until after such a conversation? 'Cause that woman in question wouldn't have gotten it all figured out until then, would she? She doesn't have that before, does she? I was therefore a little confused by your reply to Mrs Baay, as if that period of reflection could have started before the lady reported to an abortion doctor.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-11.u56	Thank you for the question, I say to Mr Van Dijk. That's different. The conversations are conducted in such a way, as I have just explained in detail, that vulnerability must be detected. But it can also be a test for women who have already thought about it very carefully and have come to a decision to see if that process has actually gone through in that way. In some women the conversation will give rise to consideration of which dilemmas there are, what uncertainties there are, what doubt there is and what the follow-up should look like. As I said, many women, a large majority of women, have already thought it through and have already made their decision when they come to the doctor. For these women, the consultation with the doctor will be a test on the part of the doctor whether there is indeed an informed, voluntary decision, with the woman also overseeing the consequences of her decision. So that differs from woman to woman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-11.u57	Are we not again in the situation of overestimating this citizen who has access to health information without consulting an expert? Haven't Corona, the vaccinations and the donor law shown that people often think they have everything in their head, when that's not the case? Is it not much safer and much more logical to allow such a period of reflection to take place at a time when it is guaranteed that the woman concerned will have everything in its head in terms of alternatives and consequences, and that the period of reflection will then run? The downside may be that a lady gets there and says: I have been thinking for two weeks; the period of reflection has been running for two weeks. That's gonna be incredibly vague, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-11.u58	I do not think this does justice to many women who have thought carefully about it and made an informed decision. However, I have just explained that these doctors are very well prepared for such a conversation and have the right expertise to do that right, which means that there is always a test whether there is indeed an informed decision. That's the doctor's responsibility. If there is any doubt or all the other things I have mentioned, such as shame, fear, or the feeling of the doctor that there may be violence, the doctor is able to give a good follow-up. What I am actually arguing is that this care, especially when you look at the extensive directive and practice of everyday life, is well invested among all women in that conversation between doctor and woman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-11.u59	Last time, I'll take it off my head, referring to the second evaluation of the abortion law. I noticed that the majority of caregivers do not agree that the period of reflection is superfluous because the reflection process has already begun. I couldn't help noticing that. A majority simply disagrees. Do we have enough eye for what the professionals say about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-11.u60	Sure. In my view, Mr Paternotte has just made an extensive statement as to the conclusion of those caregivers. What I am trying to add to Mr Paternotte's speech is the understanding of these doctors' practice, how that has been carefully built up and how there are all kinds of checks-and-balances to prevent you from making an unwanted, not properly considered decision by the woman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-11.u61	I would like to continue with the insight into the practice, because we know from all kinds of research and interviews that there are also quite a lot of women in a vulnerable position from abroad taking the car and coming to an abortion clinic in the Netherlands, for example because they cannot go to their own country. Think of Polish women, for example. How's the post-care business going in practice? A woman like that will soon return to her own country. How can abortion doctors in the Netherlands get a good understanding of the considerations they have made and how they will proceed when the treatment has taken place?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-11.u62	Part of the aftercare can already be linked to the treatment. For example, when it comes to contraception in the conversation that preceded the treatment, for example, of a Polish woman, it is also possible to talk about preventing repeat abortions and what can be done to that end. It is possible to identify the needs the woman has to meet. So there is also a question of tailor-made work. Perhaps in the second term we can come back to what is more specific about issues that we in the Netherlands might be better able to address. It may be that there are issues that deserve even more attention in relation to women abroad, and I am also looking at the Minister for Foreign Affairs with a slanted eye and what could be improved from the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-11.u63	My next question concerns the re-abortion. I don't know if you or Mrs. Chicken will agree to that. I have asked the initiators, but of course also the Minister. Unfortunately, this also applies to women from abroad.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-11.u64	Sure. It is also an important part of the supervision and treatment of abortion doctors to prevent this. That has everything to do with good contraception and making it negotiable. It's also about therapy loyalty. Abortion doctors see that for some young women, girls, it's hard to take the pill every time. Then, for example, a spiral is chosen rather. So this has an attention in abortion care. It is, I believe, also part of the coalition's policy, which I am not in, to make even more work of preventing repeat abortions and repeated unwanted pregnancies. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Baay had another important question about underage women, so girls, and what's more generally about finding out that you're pregnant on one day, seeing a doctor, having an ultrasound and having an abortion? That question was also asked by Mrs Prins, if I am not mistaken. Let me start by stressing once again that care is paramount. Otherwise, the requirement of the Abrupt Pregnancy Act that the decision should be considered cannot be met either. There has also been talk of an "impulsive decision" a few times. If that's the case, the doctor will never go along with it. As far as I'm concerned, when I say the word, "impulsive" is not the same as "welcome." What abortion doctors now see in practice is that women who have discovered that they are unwantedly pregnant and sometimes head over to a clinic are panicked. You're gonna find out something, you're gonna go head-on, and that could be a sign of panic and stress. As I've just argued, if there's stress, you can't make your decision in peace. It is part of the directive to provide good care and guidance and to achieve a situation in which women can take a decision at rest. It is also good to mention that in today's practice it is generally the case that there is time between the decision of the woman to make an appointment with a doctor, to have that appointment and to carry out that treatment. This is also due to very practical matters, namely waiting times and the availability of a treatment room. These are practical obstacles, so to speak. Can it never happen that a woman doesn't need a day's reflection? No. We've talked about it extensively with abortion doctors. That really depends on the woman. It may well be that she knows very well that she does not want a child, that she takes her decision carefully and that all due diligence checks are interpreted positively by the doctor. That situation may exist, but it is unlikely that it will all take place in one day for practical and other reasons. Unfortunately, unwanted pregnancies also occur in minors. I say "unfortunately," and we can all sense what that means. I myself am the mother of two teenagers, others here perhaps, and you wish for your child's future and space to develop. An unwanted pregnancy for a minor could have a huge impact on that minor's life. Then care is also extra important. The discussions we have had with abortion doctors on this point indicate that, if possible, this care will be even more central in less-years' time. It may be that a minor insists that he doesn't want to have that conversation with the parents. The abortion doctor will always insist on having that conversation with someone else, an aunt, a mentor or anyone else. If a minor doesn't want that either, the abortion doctor chooses to involve a colleague in that conversation. So in daily practice there is a lot of attention for careful decision-making by a minor, which does not say that it should take a very long time, not at all. Care is paramount for all women throughout the process, but perhaps especially for minors. Mr. Chairman. I have tried to put the questions together a bit thematically and now I have some loose questions left. Thus asked Mr Van Dijk whether, if you have agreed a time to consider all the information, you can also have the pregnancy aborted earlier. Suppose you've agreed on a four-day period of reflection and the woman changes her mind and thinks it should be done tomorrow anyway. In practice, that will not happen, because what could happen? The woman could theoretically go shopping at another clinic, because she thinks those four days are too long. When the woman comes to another clinic, a doctor will talk to the woman again to determine what is wise. Even then, the doctor will go through the careful process along all the elements of the directive that I have appointed. So in practice, I say to Mr Van Dijk, there is no such thing. Mrs. Prince asked if doctors could be put on the spot. Let me say first of all that, given the training of an abortion doctor he or she has followed, a doctor will never agree to the decision to have an abortion if the doctor is not convinced that the woman has reached her decision voluntarily and deliberately. That's the most important assignment the doctor gets. It is also at the heart of training and the directive. That's the starting point. That's what the doctor's checking on. The flexible period of reflection offers the doctor an additional tool to say to the woman "I sense any doubt," "I am concerned if you have sufficient social support in your environment" et cetera to finally say that it seems wise to agree on a flexible period of reflection together. So it is about the doctor's commitment and training and it is also about the instrument that offers the doctor a flexible period of thought in order to achieve a good outcome. Mrs Prins also mentioned the consequences of the mandatory five-day period of reflection when there is a medical need for abortion in the third trimester. With her we recognize the disadvantages of the mandatory five days in that third trimester, as well as the adverse effects of the mandatory five days period of reflection around nine weeks. Mr Paternotte has already mentioned this. Then, of course, you get that up to nine weeks you can opt for a medical breakdown. You can't do this after nine weeks. So we acknowledge that. However, with our law, we argue that we see wider benefits of opting for a flexible period of reflection. So it's not just about medical necessity, but it's about all the women who say, "I'm in an emergency." So positive: our initiative law aims to improve the quality of abortion care across the board, with the introduction of the flexible period of reflection. We want to increase the opportunity to come to care that matches the individual woman. That is why we choose not to use Article 16. Mrs. Prins mentioned that. It's very specific. Then the woman's life must really be at stake. We're looking wider. As Mr Paternotte and I have argued, we believe that the quality of abortion care in general is further improved. Finally, Mr President. I have already referred to Mrs Vos' question. What would change in health care if this law were passed? It was also a question from Mr Dittrich. I have argued extensively that care is central to care. It's gonna stay that way. A doctor will always look at the woman, her needs, her questions and her needs. As Mr Kox also said in his term: the purpose of the doctor is the well-being of the woman. That was first and foremost, and that will also be at the forefront, even if this law is passed. In the process, therefore, something does not change immediately, because the woman will still agree with the doctor on a period of reflection. The only difference is that it doesn't necessarily have to be five days anymore. But, of course, the impact will be monitored in practice, including by the inspection. As I said, the directive is currently being amended. If your Chamber agrees to the bill and if it is adopted, all the parties concerned will consider the impact of the bill on the guidelines on its implementation in practice. Mr. Chairman. I'm done.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-11.u65	Thank you, Mrs Ellemeet. I shall now give the floor to Mrs Kuik.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-11.u66	Good evening. I'm gonna wrap it up real tight. Mr President, I am very grateful for the time you have already given us. I may have made a mess on my desk, but I promise I will answer you carefully. Mr. Chairman. Mr Paternotte has, of course, started very much with the cause, history and the scientific basis. Mrs Ellemeet has very much reflected everyday practice, also in relation to this bill, should it be adopted. The principles of care must be maintained. A number of specific questions have been asked, including: what about the support in the provision of care itself? Mrs. Prins specifically asked about it. A number of articles have also been published. Drivers and clinics have spoken out. Let me give you two things in return. First of all, the directors have stressed the importance of looking carefully and critically at how this period of reflection works and what is sensible in doing so. That is precisely why we have not chosen to abolish the period of reflection. We offer more customization. We make it more flexible, so that it fits the wishes of the individual woman and the integrity of the doctor who naturally has to advocate treatment. Secondly, we must also note that the clinics have asked a number of questions. At the same time, the caregivers, the abortion doctors, are very much in favour of the flexible period of reflection, because this is precisely what can be done with customisation. A number of evaluations have already been cited. I also have the idea that they were sometimes presented a little too black and white. After all, when you ask the question "do you want to completely abolish it?" Asks, versus the question "Would you like to keep him as he is?', Most abortion doctors indicate that they think that a flexible reflection period is appropriate and necessary for women in their situation, as well as for the care that doctors want and should exercise and that fits their personal and professional codes. A second question, which has also been rightly asked, is: how does a mandatory period of reflection, or a flexible period of reflection, relate to other legal bases? Mrs Prins and Mr Verkerk also stressed this point. The comparison has been made with buying a house. Of course everyone understands that buying a house does not relate to this in any way, but it is a legitimate question. Let me say that there are several ways to build in guarantees for careful decision-making. This is certainly an unfortunate example, but rightly so. When buying a house, the legislator set a period of three days to protect both buyer and seller. At the same time, the legislator does not have any guarantees that the legal period for considering this matter will be followed. In our view, therefore, the period of reflection for a termination of pregnancy on the following two points is substantially different from buying a house. Firstly, a woman is given choice support and guidance, in which the conversations with the doctor must help the woman to make a careful decision. These requirements regarding care, treatment and conversation are also laid down by law. When buying a house, that doesn't apply. Secondly, and that is, I think, a difference that is fundamentally different, it is a woman and her choice to abort pregnancy in order to have an emergency. The unnecessarily prolonging of an emergency situation has a negative effect on the woman and her well-being or health. When buying a house there are no negative effects on the buyer if it has to wait another three days. In our view, a well-considered choice can be made with professional guidance and a fixed, mandatory five-day reflection period is not necessary, although it has unnecessarily negative effects. Mr. Chairman. A number of questions have also been asked, and rightly so, of course, about the position of the man. It was suggested: should not the man also observe a period of reflection? A night's sleep was called. The latter might lead to risks, but it is quite right that this question should be put explicitly. Not in all cases, the man is still present. You probably also know women who have been in the difficult situation with whom the man simply is no longer there or does not want to have any meaning. Sometimes there is abuse; in that case a man cannot have a position. Or there is a medical breakdown; then the role of the man is of course assured in another way. But in the end, it's a woman's choice over her body. The man certainly has a role at the moment the pregnancy occurs, he has a role when he is involved in the joint choice. He is equally responsible for the use of contraception, but once there is a pregnancy, only the woman can decide what happens with it. It's her body, so it's her choice. In a legal or legal sense, therefore, the man has no role to play. Article 5 of the Abrupt Pregnancy Act states that the woman must be aware of the consequences for her and the hair. This may include the sire. Yet this is always up to the woman. The doctor cannot involve third parties in the decision of the woman because of the obligation to remain silent. I've already indicated why not. The directive on abortion doctors also contains the following. Always involving the partner in decision-making can affect the privacy of the woman. It may suggest that the partner does have the right to decide. And it can put pressure on the voluntary nature of the request, so it is no longer voluntary on the left or right. That is why we have the emphasis on women and doctors. Of course, this does not mean that we want to prevent all forms of unwanted pregnancy, in whatever form, by informing men, by giving men their own contraception, by working on a political decision to make condoms available for free, or by raising awareness in other ways. I'd love to. I think it is a good thing because these are very legitimate questions that have also been explicitly raised in our Chamber if the Minister is to address them. I'd like to invite him to that. Then I have received a number of questions about the review and enforcement. Among other things, I would like to address Mr Van Dijk's question. He asked how checking and maintaining an indefinite standard is doable. An important question, because it also touches on ensuring good quality care. The supervision of compliance with the Abrupt Pregnancy Act has been invested in the Health and Youth Inspectorate. The data from the annual report referred to here, drawn up each year by the inspection, are used by the inspection as indicators in its risk-driven monitoring of abortion care providers. This report shows the number of days of reflection in percentages of the number of women treated. In addition, the inspection examines the standards set by the professional associations themselves, such as the standards of the Dutch Society of Abortion Doctors and the Dutch Association for Obstetrie and Gynaecology, the NVOG. Two directives play an important role in this: the directive on the supervision of women considering termination of pregnancy and the directive on the treatment of women undergoing termination of pregnancy. These two directives will be reviewed in the near future, as stated by Mrs Ellemeet. If this change of law is passed by your Chamber, it will become law and the inspection will take this change of law into account in its annual reports. This will also allow her to perform key and enforcement. The Minister will also be able to confirm this section. I think it's okay if he confirms this from his role and expertise. I'm gonna take another sip so I can keep talking.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-11.u67	In the meantime, Mr Van Dijk is rushing to the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-11.u68	It just struck me a little bit that that period of thought can run before you get to the doctor. That was genuinely new to me. If I hold that against the enforceability, I wonder how you can pay back afterwards when a woman says she's been thinking for three weeks. How can you stop that from happening? Doesn't that make it much more complicated? Isn't it much more manageable if at least it's established that the period of reflection is only beginning to run from the first time you're with the doctor?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-11.u69	But it's always gonna start with that doctor, right? After all, you don't just get a pregnancy break. So I'm gonna turn it around. Either you're getting medication to abort the pregnancy, or you're being referred to a clinic, or there's another way to abort the pregnancy, for example in the hospital. So you're always dealing with that doctor. It then starts with careful conversations to determine whether pregnancy is present and, if so, how long it takes. And there's an echo in between. That is why I said: in a very theoretical case, it could happen the same day. However, we do not see this theoretical case developing. I understand your concern, don't I? I also understand that we may be looking at this from a slightly different ideological point of view. But I also hope you will accept that we understand that this must be done with care. Those guarantees are really there, because a you always have the talk with the doctor and b there are really very clear guidelines. Doctors are also trained, trained and constantly trained to do that conversation in a careful and good way. The inspection will check on that, too. And we have established that Mr Van Dijk himself said quite clearly that to acknowledge that abortion care in the Netherlands is well and carefully regulated. Of course, our bill doesn't change that. That care will stand.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-11.u70	Thank you for your detailed answer. You were free to give orders to the minister. I invite the Minister to come back to this later. Was he also keen on the retina that that reflection period can run from before talking to the doctor? How does he weigh that and how does he reflect on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-11.u71	I see him nodding. We sent him out with some clear assignments. Mr. Chairman. A number of questions were asked about the implementation and evaluation. You indicated the importance of evaluation, as well as not only to evaluate, but also to keep a finger on the pulse in the interim. Mrs Baay has specifically asked us whether we, as initiators, can give an explicit undertaking that the next evaluation will focus in particular on the abolition of the mandatory five-day reflection period, its flexibility and its consequences. Did I sum that up correctly? That's the case. As initiators, we support the importance of a thorough evaluation. This applies to all legislation, especially the kind of intrusive legislation that we have today. Evaluations provide a good insight into how the law actually works in practice. They also provide a basis for any improvement points to be marked. Although we, as initiators ourselves, cannot make any commitments as to what exactly will be taken into account in the next evaluation of the Abrupt Pregnancy Act, we can nevertheless embrace the request to highlight the issues identified and mentioned above. We think that is wise. I would therefore like to hear whether the Minister is prepared to highlight these aspects in the next evaluation. Mr. Chairman. I shall now turn to Mr Dittrich's questions. In the meantime, how can we keep an eye on the drafting of this law, up to the legal evaluation, when it comes to the impact of this bill on possible changes in care and aftercare? Mrs Ellemeet mentioned this briefly. At the moment, the Health and Youth Inspectorate sends a public annual report of the Abrupt Pregnancy Act every year. The inspection shall report annually on the basis of the data that hospitals and clinics licensed under the Law on Abrupt Pregnancy are legally obliged to provide. Subject matter and data included in this report include: the decision-making process, the pattern of referral, consultation with experts, the post-control and the retention period. In any case, this will be discussed in this way every year. The inspection shows the figures provided and identifies trends that can be drawn from the registration. Both chambers have the possibility to ask further questions through these public annual reports. So that goes for the Lower House, but also for you as the Upper Chamber. That seems very important to us too. During the debate on 2 February on the amendment of the Abrupt Pregnancy Act in connection with the abolition of the mandatory minimum period of reflection, the VWS Minister undertook to include this specific amendment, namely the transition from a mandatory minimum period of reflection to a flexible period of reflection, in the report of the Health and Youth Inspectorate. You see the Minister nodding again, so that's right. Mr. Chairman. I would like to make a brief comment on a point made by Mrs De Bruijn-Wezeman. It indicated that, if the legislative proposal on the legal medical termination of pregnancy by the general practitioner is rejected, a legislative proposal that is still pending is still being rejected, with a motion in a debate with the government at another time to add an evaluation to the Aborting Pregnancy Act, for example by means of a collective law. We think that's good. As initiators, we think it is right that, in addition to the reports of the Health and Youth Inspectorate, the Law on Abrupting Pregnancy is also reviewed periodically. We support Mrs De Bruijn-Wezeman's proposal, as she made very clearly in her term. In this way, we keep an eye on the consequences of this legislative amendment. Mr. Chairman. I'll come to a conclusion before we go to the minister. I would like to thank your Chamber very much for the very thorough preparation and respectful way in which we have had this debate again. I didn't expect anything different in this company, because I've been here a few times before and I know you a little bit, but I found it enriching. We found it enriching and honorable. Many thanks and we look forward to the second term in a moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-11.u72	Thank you, Mrs. Chicken. Then I would like to give the floor to the Minister for Health, Welfare and Sport, who is here today as an advisor to the Chamber, since it is an initiative law.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-11.u73	If I'd just cleaned up my desk for Mrs. Chicken, president, and then she'd sit in another place. Mr. Chairman. Decision-making on medical ethics requires careful weighting of values. Similarly to the initiative legislative proposal on the abolition of a mandatory minimum period of five days as currently laid down in the Abrupt Pregnancy Act. First of all, I would like to thank your Chamber, the sentors, for the careful discussion here and the questions, and I would like to thank the initiators and their supporters for this initiative. This is an important and sensitive medical-ethical theme, in which values such as autonomy, freedom of choice for women and the protection of life are weighed. Mr. Chairman. In the coalition agreement it was agreed that the cabinet would advise neutrally on the basis of a careful personal consideration of this initiative proposal. I have taken this into account during the treatment in the Lower House and I will now do so in the course of the treatment in the Upper House. In addition, it is good to know that the Cabinet will come after the summer with an elaboration of the recommendations of the Law Review of the Abrupt Pregnancy Act. The drafting of these recommendations cannot be separated from the two legislative proposals currently before examination in the First Chamber: the proposal to abolish the mandatory minimum period of reflection in the case of abortion, which we are discussing today, and the proposal for an initiative law for the provision of the abortion pill by the general practitioner. The evaluation report sent to your Chamber on 22 March this year is also relevant in this respect. The coalition agreement also includes agreements on an integral approach to pregnancy, abortion care and birth. The purpose of this cabinet is to reduce the number of unwanted and unintended pregnancies and repeated abortions. It builds on the actions launched during the past cabinet period. That brings me to the question. I shall begin with a question from Mrs Baay-Timmerman and Mr Kox. They asked about the period of reflection and the legal assessment. Can the Minister promise that the third review will focus in particular on the consequences of abolishing the mandatory five-day period of reflection? Mrs. Kuik said something about this earlier. The answer is yes. The next legislative review will certainly take place, should this bill of course be adopted, on the effects of this legislative amendment. This also applies to any other amendments to the Law on Abrupt Pregnancy, namely by providing the abortion pill by the GP. In addition, it has just been recalled that there is also a reporting obligation for clinics. Even after a possible flexibilisation of the period of reflection, clinics, as they have been doing for years, continue to provide the figures to the Health and Youth Inspectorate, which makes any changes in practice visible. These figures shall be reported annually. Mr. Chairman. Mr Dittrich asked for monitoring after the entry into force. There will be changes in practice after the entry into force. How is the finger kept on the wrist in anticipation of the evaluation of 2027? Let me mention that the amendment of the law does not change the reporting obligation of abortion clinics. They will therefore continue to provide the figures on an annual basis. The IGJ will report annually on the previous period. These reports are also sent to the Lower House, as has just been mentioned, and the Upper House. They're public, right here next to me. Mr. Chairman. Mr Kox asked: is the subject of "ensuring that abortion care remains the best in the world" included in the following evaluations? The answer is yes. I think it is important that we continue to guarantee the high quality of our abortion aid. This aim will therefore be a starting point for the next review of the Abrupt Pregnancy Act, which will be held as recalled in 2027. Mr Dittrich asked about repeated abortions. What is being done to reduce the number of unwanted pregnancies and repeated abortions? Examples were mentioned of access to contraception, information and education, and strengthening of post-care after the first abortion. The cabinet wants to reduce not only the number of repeated abortions, but also the number of unintended pregnancies. To this end, various activities will be deployed, including research, prevention, free and accessible contraception for vulnerable groups, good, non-directive choice support and information provision, and implementation of post-care. The follow-up approach to prevention and support in unintended pregnancy is currently being worked in close cooperation with field parties. In the second half of this month, the House of Representatives receives a vision letter from the State Secretary on the follow-up approach to unintentional pregnancies. The activities and components mentioned earlier will be named and addressed in them. Mr. Chairman. With regard to the role of the man, Mr Verkerk asked: can the Minister undertake to pay explicit attention to the responsibility of men in the policy on unintended pregnancies? The answer to this question is also yes. Preventing an unintended pregnancy is also an absolute responsibility of men. The Secretary of State, who is responsible for the policy on unintended pregnancies, will certainly take this into account. For example, prevention activities such as information and education, as has just been mentioned. Mr Dittrich asked: is the child's father being specifically addressed in the information campaign? Is the Minister prepared to include this with professional groups? That is in line with the question I have just answered. There's attention to that. It's in the Secretary of State's wallet. Mrs Prins and Mrs De Bruijn asked whether the Minister could undertake whether clear recommendations from the evaluation of the law would be taken up by him and, if so, on what time. The answer is yes. I think it is important that the other recommendations in the second evaluation of the Abrupt Pregnancy Act should also be followed. I will inform the House of Representatives after the summer, in the autumn, about the elaboration of the recommendations. You know them: this is about, for example, defining the term 'pregnancy' and clarifying the legal position of over-time treatment, to name just two. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Vos asked about the monitor unintended pregnancies: what will the Minister do with the conclusions from the RIVM monitor? As you know, the RIVM monitor was sent to the Lower House by the Secretary of State on 14 March this year. Among other things, it dealt with a number of mentioned points of improvement. RIVM recommendations are incorporated in the follow-up approach to prevention and support in unintended pregnancies. As mentioned above, the Second Chamber receives a vision letter from the State Secretary in the second half of this month. Mr. Chairman. Mr Verkerk asked: does the Minister think that there is sufficient attention to discuss alternatives in abortion care? Let me say first of all that the doctor must assist the woman, in particular by providing responsible information, including on the alternatives. That's what's gonna happen. Mrs Kuik and Mrs Ellemeet have just thought about this. This is also included in the guidelines of the Dutch Society of Abortion Arts. For the moment, I have no reason to believe that the provision of abortion aid on this point is not satisfactory. I have already mentioned the reports and the annual inspection reports. I would like to point out that, as your Chamber knows, it is always customary and that not every woman needs information on all alternatives. What abortion doctors can also explicitly do is refer to choice support, for which a nationwide coverage network is present. Mr. Chairman. Mr Verkerk also asked: can the Minister respond to his image on a realistic perspective of autonomy? This question touches on the nature of the bill as it stands. As has just been mentioned, I am abstaining from consulting on this bill, as agreed in the coalition agreement. For me, the importance of quality care is paramount. I think it is important that any woman who has to make a choice about an unintended pregnancy should be able to make this choice freely and voluntarily in the time she deems necessary. Mr. Chairman. Mr Verkerk asked: how does the Minister intend to reduce the number of repeated abortions? A similar question was also asked by Mr Van Dijk. Let me put it first: it has already been mentioned that abortion aid in the Netherlands is of high quality and not only that. The number of abortions and unintended pregnancies in the Netherlands is low in relation to many places abroad. The policy aimed at the number of repeat abortions and the number of unintended pregnancies is therefore successful, but I fully share with your Chamber... It's been mentioned before. The cabinet considers the number still too high and has therefore given itself a clear mandate in the coalition agreement. They're looking at the situation in 2020. A more recent evaluation showed that more than 28,500 times a pregnancy was terminated in women residing in the Netherlands and more than 2,800 times in women from abroad. Mr. Chairman. Then Mr Van Dijk asked: what does the right to self-determination do with respect for a human life? Even if this initiative proposal is adopted, it remains important for me to ensure careful decision-making by women. This is in line with the law's balance between women's right to self-determination and the protection of unborn life. I agree with you that young people should also be taught that this balance is an expression of respect for life. This brings us back, as has already been pointed out, to the fact that the doctor must make sure that the unintentional pregnant woman has made her decision on a voluntary basis, after careful consideration and awareness of her responsibility for unborn life and of the consequences for herself and hair. Mr. Chairman. Then Mrs Vos asked: when will the bill on consent be ready for treatment? On 13 June last, yesterday, the Council of State published its opinion on the Sexual Crimes Act. This law is the responsibility of the Ministry of Justice and Security. The Minister of Justice and Security will inform your Chamber of the state of play on this bill before the summer recess. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Vos asked: does the government intend to invest more in research into more contraceptive options for men? The answer to that is: no, I don't intend to. It is the responsibility of VWS to ensure good information on different forms of contraception for men and women. This happens, for example through the incentive scheme Healthy School, in the field of relationships and sexuality. But doing research into more and new methods of contraception for men would require setting up a very long-term programme.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-11.u74	I understand the Ministry isn't gonna do that investigation on its own. The question is whether there are any funding possibilities for medical science. Of course, it happens more often that a subsidy is provided if we think that a particular medicine or treatment can be better. Because it would be so nice if there were the equivalent of the spiral available for men. It's really weird that there's no semipermanent contraceptive for men.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-11.u75	Yes. This is a subject that has been under investigation for a long time, including internationally. I have already indicated that if VWS wanted to focus on this, it would require the launch of a very long and extensive research programme. I don't intend to initiate that for now. Mrs Vos asked what exactly will happen to the implementation if this bill is adopted. Let me say first of all that I fully agree with the proposers when they say that the field has been optimally prepared for a long time for any changes to the Abrupt Pregnancy Act. I am very much prepared to discuss with the profession the amendment of the directives at the time when this law could be adopted. The profession remains, of course, responsible for the directive itself. Finally, the question of the period of reflection has just come to light. Let me say first of all that, as you know, in the current law, there is a period of at least five days, starting from a doctor's interview. Now we have the abolition of the minimum deadline. There's no need to talk about when exactly that starts. That can stay exactly where it is now. It is a question of abolishing the minimum deadline. In this respect, I attach particular importance to Mrs De Bruijn's term. This was about 'the process of reflection'. And I would also like to stress once again that we have a very careful practice in the Netherlands, with highly educated people, with a very good inspection, very good supervision and with annual reporting. I would like to say that both that policy and that expertise and that reporting simply do not change with the adaptation and with the abolition of a mandatory minimum deadline. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-11.u76	Thank you, Minister. We now come to the second term from the Chamber. I give the floor to Mr Van Gurp. He will speak on behalf of GroenLinks and the Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-11.u77	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the initiators and the Minister for their answers. On a number of points, in my first term, I gave the initiators a perspective by asking: wouldn't you go a step further? As far as I am concerned, they have made it sufficiently clear why they believe that this is the most sensible proposal at the moment in this context. As far as I am concerned, this has been sufficiently answered. Perhaps at another time, in a different context, we will discuss further proposals. The answers show a strong commitment to the practice of abortion aid. That has been genuinely good for me. In particular, Mrs Ellemeet, Mrs Kuik, but also the Minister, with knowledge, spoke with a warm heart and passion. It is also an issue that is widely regarded here in this Chamber. From these answers I learned once again how different situations can be, however different the starting positions of the women who come to the aid worker can be, and how different that good conversation can be. That makes it clear that there is no one-size-fits-all for this. There is a great difference in situations and starting point, from very thoughtful to very stressed and uncertain. And for each one, in her own way, the proper "consultation process" will have to be completed in order to quote Mrs De Bruijn. In my view, the essence of the proposal is the right thing to do: not one fixed deadline for everyone, but a flexible period of reflection, a flexible process of reflection. This brings me to one final point: the remaining difference between our group and the Christian Union, as far as I am concerned. I'm a hopeless optimist, so I had a fit of "maybe we're so close that we can still get together." But I hear Mr Verkerk say, and I appreciate that very much: I do not necessarily attach to that five-day period, but there must be some time limit; if necessary, let it be two to five days. In contrast to his concern that this is necessary in order to reach an informed decision, our group, our groups, consider that it may also be very good that women have come to their decision in the process of reflection, and that it has also become clear in the proper conversation with the abortion aid provider that it is an informed and non-impulsive decision. In these situations, and fortunately, there are many of them, there is no objection at all to us if they could be helped immediately, on the same day, quite the contrary. However, for other women in other situations it is very good that there is still thought, nights sleep or more time built in. In our view, exactly that difference, that flexibility, is at the heart of the legislative proposal before us. I will certainly advise our groups to vote in favour. There is no doubt that this will also be the outcome of the group's deliberations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-11.u78	Thank you, Mr. Van Gurp. I call Mr Dittrich on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-11.u79	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, thanks to the initiators. I have listened with respect to their response. Not that I had so many questions, but many of them have been answered convincingly as far as I am concerned. There are still three issues that I would like to discuss briefly, but the essence of their legislative proposal and also the Minister's response to it is that the minimum five-day period of compulsory reflection is abolished and that a flexible period should instead be allowed. It was called customization. That depends very much on the conversation between the aid worker and the woman in a particular matter. That seems the fraction of D66 very good. There are three other things I would like to mention briefly. First of all, foreign women. I've read some interviews with abortion doctors. They say that in an emergency situation women come from abroad to the Netherlands and are helped from that emergency, but I also ask the Minister to respond to this question. Because I have also read that some of these women are coming back for a repeat abortion. Then I think that information, guidance or after-care should take a closer look at this particular situation. This is difficult because the women then return to their own countries, but I would like to make that clear. I am also looking at the Minister with the question of whether he will continue to do so in his second term. The minister said that's the Secretary of State's wallet. I understand that in itself, but the minister is here on behalf of the cabinet as an advisor to the First Chamber. So even if it is the Secretary of State's portfolio, I would like to hear from the Minister or the Secretary of State in the letter he is going to send in the second half of June, at least that aspect also wants to address. I'd like to get a commitment on that. The last point concerns the role of men. That is what I put forward in my first term. Especially when it comes to repeated unwanted pregnancies, I think it is important that we really look at these men specifically, no matter how difficult that may be, because sometimes they are not in the picture. I would like to hear from both the initiators and the Minister how extra attention is going to be paid to this aspect. Practice shows that these men are out of the picture after all. Especially when it comes to repeated unwanted pregnancies, that is an unfortunate point for us, so please give us some clarity on that. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I would like to say that the D66 Group will vote in favour of this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-11.u80	Thank you, Mr. Dittrich. I call Mr Verkerk on behalf of the Christian Union, but only after Mr Van Dijk has made another interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-11.u81	Mr Dittrich came up with fine suggestions, which I very much agree with, to include men's responsibilities in this. I thought maybe I could help him with concrete suggestions or he has them himself. Would D66 be prepared, because I know that Mr Dittrich also carries with him the necessary activism, to give shape to 'be faithful' campaigns, for example, to point out men's responsibilities, so that you do not just run away?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-11.u82	Be faithful to what?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-11.u83	To your partner, especially the partner you got pregnant.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-11.u84	I have to say that I think that is something I want to leave to the people themselves. I am not going to say to people from my position as a Member of Parliament: be faithful or not be faithful. It's up to them, I think. You were also the one who said that you should respond to the people from trust. If there was to be a government campaign: be faithful to your partners, or something like that, there is already some suspicion that you may not be loyal to your partner. Again, I think that's up to the people themselves, because people are adults. They'll have to fill that out on their own.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-11.u85	I understand what you're saying. At the same time, I understood you were talking about addressing men to their responsibilities. In that context, I see this too.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-11.u86	I said the same thing in my first term. I even mentioned abortion nurse Janine, who said that when it comes to unwanted pregnancy, the man has a responsibility or role in it, who should not just leave it to the woman and be able to support her on that responsibility, but it is of course the woman who decides it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-11.u87	Thank you. I call Mr Verkerk on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-11.u88	Mr. Chairman. First of all, a word of thanks to the initiators and the Minister for the respectful way in which they have answered the questions and entered into the debate, as well as to colleagues. Language matters. We have heard this another time in the debate today. I have to say, if you look at the words "paternalism" and "bettering," I do. This also has to do with the fact that, a long time ago, I was working extensively on the history of feminism and also had to observe that the oppression of women of all times is, in all cultures, in all religions, in all ideologies; always. I have said myself, partly from theological point of view, that evil is deep within the man. And that also means that it's deep inside of me. And that also means, if these kinds of terms are used here, that this also forces me to do soulsearching, just to put it in English. However, such terms can also be used too easily. Of course, that's the other side. I would like to try again to focus on what has to do with the quality of the process. What I agree with is that women don't lightly do abortions. That's what the proposers said. I agree. I also agree that the quality of abortion care is high. Of course something goes wrong every now and then. This is happening everywhere in healthcare, but the quality of abortion care is high. That is not our concern or our point of criticism. If you're going to look at the trial, you can look at the outcome. Then you can ask the question: does it lead to other outcomes if you do this and this and this? That's a way of looking at a process. You can also say that you look at the quality of the elements in the process. Whether or not it has an effect on the results is a second question. If you look at it in the second way, there's one point. That's what I called the balancing of interests. The question is: how can you weigh up respectful interests? In my contribution, I also said that we accept that it is a fact that is also laid down in the law of the country where the woman finally makes the decision. It is said, however, that this balance of interests must be carefully considered. We also find in the explanatory statement that the woman herself decides whether there is an emergency or not. There is no further definition of how this balance of interests should be balanced. I accept all of that. An honest question is: if you still want to shape that interests need to be carefully weighed, then I'm talking about a process parameter. Is it weird if you look at a minimum period of reflection from that perspective? My honest answer: no, actually that's not weird. It has to do with what the initiators have said several times, namely what the value of the conversation with the doctor is. There are very important questions asked. If you then look at the importance of unborn life, I shall put it carefully, in order to stay in line with the debate, I do not find it strange that we are talking about a quality parameter of a short period of reflection. And with a wink to Mr Van Gurp: I think of at least one day, or two days, or three days. But I'm not interested in the exact length of that. My argument therefore focuses on the quality of the process itself, in relation to the consideration. If you look at the importance of the unborn child, that time element is the only thing you can bring in under current legislation, because the other things are not in the current law. So I can't blame the initiators for that either. The current law is just the law as it is. We spoke briefly about the scientific basis. Honestly, that's what the conversation's about. I understand that, too. I've asked questions about it before. My honest question is: if it's so important to you, can I ask you about that justification? Mr. Chairman. I also advocated a realistic perspective on autonomy. I must honestly say that, given the debate, I do not know whether we can easily talk about it. That could be me. That could be up to you. I'll just put it in the middle. In any case, within my field of expertise, philosophy, there is a huge amount of criticism of autonomy. I'm just thinking about what Ricoeur calls the "masters of distrust." There are a few philosophers who take Freud or Marx who distrust human reason. Take Nietzsche, too. I'll call them big names. Maybe you're thinking, "What a special thing a Christian Union philosopher calls those names." I know these philosophers, and I have a lot with them. Mr. Chairman. I told you, we can't find each other on a number of points. Of course ideological differences also play a role. We do agree that it is important to bet on unwanted pregnancies. I also hope that we will continue to discuss this with the cabinet. It will probably then be possible, also in view of the comments made by my fellow Members, to work together in this area. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-11.u89	Thank you, Mr. Verkerk. I call Mr Van Dijk on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-11.u90	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the authors and the Minister for answering all the questions put. At some point all the arguments have been exchanged and the debate is ready. In this debate, there are also differences in the vision of life and death which, unfortunately, cannot be reconciled. The legal killing of human life is, in the eyes of the SGP, a dead end and does not fit in with a society that should represent a culture of life. We are convinced that this bill does not serve the interests of unintentional pregnant women, especially not the interests of women in vulnerable positions, nor the interests of the unborn child. It has been cited above: the SGP is not alone in this thought. I quote a board member of abortion clinic Stimezo in Zwolle: "There are many mature women who come into the clinic and think they know exactly what they want and then they regret because they acted too quickly." It is therefore unfortunate to say that wanting to stick to the current legal period of reflection implies a form of distrust or paternalism towards women. In addition, I found it very curious to hear that the period of reflection can start before the woman comes to the doctor for the first time. I think this is also an undermining of the expertise and the claimed added value that the doctor has. Surely a period of reflection will not run until the woman has been guaranteed all the information? However, for the sake of clarity and perhaps also for the history of law, did the Minister say exactly the same thing as the authors, namely that the period of reflection may start before the first interview with the doctor, or did he say otherwise? It was a little too fast for me. In any case, I would like a clarification on this point, please. Mr. Chairman. It remains special and significant that professionals, caregivers and even abortion clinics think very differently about this bill, that the opinion of women themselves on the fixed period of reflection has not been systematically examined and that the unborn life is certainly not served by it and that this bill is passed on without hesitation. Is this not, in all caution, an example of very dogmatic thinking based on the right of self-determination, for which all other interests must depart? Mr. Chairman. The ideas of pro-choice have been passed regularly today. The SGP is also heartily pro-choice, with the Bible as a reliable compass. In one of the first Bible books, Moses calls for the best choice to be made and says, "So choose life, that you may live, you and your descendants, by loving the Lord your God, obeying His voice and holding on to Him, for He is your life and the extension of your days." However the vote on this bill ends, I find it reassuring that this message of life will always be stronger than that of death. Equally, I hold my heart about the future of society that is becoming less and less attuned to the Creator of life and loses sight of the holiness of life. I am sincerely and particularly sorry that Christians like me do not radiate enough to change people's minds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-11.u91	Thank you, Mr. Van Dijk. Mr Kox has the floor on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-11.u92	Mr. Chairman. We could talk a lot about dogmatism, I say to Mr Van Dijk. He was also a good representative of that school in his speech here in second term, I would say. But that's his right. Let me not talk about dogmatism, but about quality. I should like to congratulate the initiators, the defenders of the bill on behalf of the House of Representatives, also on behalf of Mrs Gerkens, who, while staying at home, is watching closely if I am doing it all right. She did not judge me, but she did judge the initiators and the minister. She thinks it's of an extremely high level. I'd like to endorse that. I'm never jealous of Lower House members Why would you want to put together a proposal for an initiative, if they manage to get it through the Lower House without getting the Minister full of them in defending themselves in the Lower House and in the Upper House and if they get it on the final line here, that's pretty good. Then I'm a little jealous. Nevertheless, I will not be on the list of candidates for the next Lower House elections. We have no right of initiative, and that is well arranged. We must prevent evil, and the House of Representatives and the government must do the right thing. Thus it was once written in the nineteenth century by Dark Curtius and those were wise words. We need to check whether a legislative proposal is politically, desirable, appropriate and feasible and a solution to a problem. That's this bill. This is not a major revolutionary bill. The initiators do not report that in any way either. It is a small but important improvement in regulation that must do justice to unborn life, do justice to professionals and, above all, do justice to the rights, the inalienable rights, according to my group, of women within the question of whether pregnancy should be carried out or whether it is better to end pregnancy. I don't usually think flexibilisation is such a good word, because it's being abused a lot, but in this case it's doing exactly right. Nothing is reduced, nothing is increased and the complicated situation in which a woman is in when she is pregnant and does not want to carry out that pregnancy is better addressed, literally not. With this approach, we are doing more justice to all the rights I have just mentioned. I must say that we have great confidence in this country in a woman's decision to become pregnant. We have great faith in being pregnant, which is also quite a process. And we have great faith in giving birth to the child and bringing up the child. I do not quite understand why there is such a specific lack of trust as a woman, who is familiar with all these other things, wants to make such a decision. Then we say, "That's risky." Is there enough thought? I would think: let us put confidence first if there is no real reason at the moment to distrust the women of the Netherlands. I have no reason to do that. I've been married to one myself for 45 years, and I don't have any complaints about it. One of the things that inspired me when I was very young and attractive we know that both of them, chairman.. were the actions of Mad Mina and Boss in their own belly. They spoke to me. These were people who manifested themselves with the question: can I please be the boss of myself? I thought that was a very reasonable demand and I think they have come a long way. One last comment. Maybe it was a misunderstanding, but I didn't argue that I want five days to think about it before you start making love, because then it doesn't get very creative. At the same time, I think we should say to the men of the Netherlands: if you are going to have sex and that can lead to pregnancy, you should not be too silly, not too irresponsible and not too stupid. You'll have a responsibility to take. I agree with the Minister that the number of unwanted pregnancies should be reduced. It's not a form of contraception, it's something far more radical. Men have their responsibilities there. I very much agree with the proposers that this should not be regulated by law. There's the woman who decides. But I think more responsibility can be demanded from men. I think that a lot of men, if they are properly asked for it and if they are pointed out, are not so dumb that they couldn't do it. We are not the smartest, but we can do better than we do now. That is why I have one final question for the Minister. Mrs. Vos asked: shouldn't we do something there? The minister said: no, the cabinet is not going to come up with plans there. I understand that this is the position now, but maybe we should think about it. If we all want to reduce the number of unwanted pregnancies, I think that is most of the solution. I invite the Minister to think again about this in the future, knowing that a large part of this Chamber will support him in it. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-11.u93	Thank you, Mr. Kox. I call Mrs Vos on behalf of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-11.u94	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the authors of the bill, to the Minister and to the officials who are sitting next to it and who have probably worked very hard. Thank you, boys and girls. I would also like to thank my fellow Members for this debate. This debate was about principles, but today it was also about a compromise that was reached at the time to get a majority on the principle that women in the Netherlands should have the opportunity to break down pregnancy safely and legally. That compromise was a compromise. For matters of principle, it is actually very strange to negotiate compromises. Five, one or two days, actually, it wasn't about that. The essence of this law is that there is good and careful help for women. The care is secured in the conversation with the doctor. As you are used to from us, the debate was respectful, despite our great differences. What was not very respectful today were the pictures that were outside on the Lange Voorhout. I don't know if you've seen them, but once again, they were horrible bloody pictures of blood and fetuses. It was shocking again. The opponents have moved again. I'm sure that was the intention of the people who put that kind of footage. Perhaps then they hope that those who advocate safe abortions for women will change their minds or feel guilty. Yes, I know where it comes from, because I also know that religion by guilt and penance. The supporters of good care for women in emergency situations do not have the hard visual language available to the opponents. That is why I will describe it in words in the debate. The torn woman who found out she was pregnant after the rape. The poverty in the family that has no money for contraception. And the depression of the child who feels that she is unwanted every day. I don't have any pictures of that. I just want to name their lives, because that is also the life we were talking about here today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-11.u95	Thank you, Mrs. Fox. Mrs Baay-Timmerman has the floor on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-11.u96	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you also to the initiators and the Minister for the careful and comprehensive answer to my group's questions. These have given me more insight into some other points of uncertainty that I had in the first term. For example, the Minister's firm commitment that the possible consequences of abolishing the mandatory minimum period of reflection will be taken into account in the next review of this bill is reassuring my group. This makes it possible to re-examine the impact in practice. Mr. Chairman. My group has been convinced that the flexible period of consultation between doctors and women does justice to the need for careful decision-making, is sufficiently well-founded and provides appropriate tailor-made measures in the area of the necessary care. Mr. Chairman. I am pleased to say that I will advise my group to vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-11.u97	Thank you, Mrs Baay-Timmerman. I call Mrs De Bruijn-Wezeman on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-11.u98	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A big thank you to the initiators, not only for taking the initiative, but also for your commitment to getting there and for your commitment here tonight. I must honestly say that my group was already positive about the proposal. However, given the way in which the process of reflection has been discussed and how carefully the process of reflection has been regulated in the law, but also in the standards and guidelines for the aid workers, we must also give confidence that the process is proceeding in a good way. In the end, this leads to good care and therefore not to mention mandatory deadlines set by the legislator. So thank the initiators for that. I would also like to thank Mrs Kuiken for her comments on the evaluation clause. We shall return to that and I look forward to the next debate with you. So that's gonna be okay. In response to our question, the Minister indicated that there was still a cabinet response to the other opinions from the second evaluation. I am sure that you will send it to the House of Representatives, but I would ask you to send a copy to us for information at least, also because there are still more legislation in this area coming our way. Finally, Mr President. I have already indicated that we were in favour of the bill. I was allowed to speak on behalf of the entire VVD group this morning. So that means something, too. Unfortunately, I will not be at the vote next week on parliamentary obligations abroad. Sorry about that. That is why I am now going to say that the VVD will support your proposal. Then you can stick to them next week, if they decide otherwise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-11.u99	Thank you, Mrs De Bruijn. That's how I'm gonna learn something. Does one of the Members wish to speak in the second term? Mrs. Prince.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-11.u100	Yes, Mr. Chairman. I didn't sign up for the second term at first because I actually didn't have any more questions. At the same time, I realized that I absolutely want to say that I am impressed by the extent and care of the response. So thank you very much for that. It also makes us think again. I welcome the Minister's commitment that we will continue to work and that you will continue to work on preventing pregnancies, of course, of unintended pregnancies, because that is what this is all about. I have realised that, unlike the proposal for a flexible period of reflection, we, as Members of Parliament, have a fixed period of seven days. So we will have to vote next week, and I am glad we can have another night's sleep. So thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-11.u101	Thank you. I see that there are no more Members who wish to speak. Mr Paternotte, Mrs Ellemeet, Mrs Kuik and the Minister, are you able to respond directly to the questions of the Chamber? You're asking for a five-minute suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-11.u102	I give the floor to Mr Paternotte.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-11.u103	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you also for the contributions of Members in the second term. It was good to hear that a number of Members indicated that they could support the bill or say that we are going to consider it for a while. Thank you very much for the contributions of all. I would just like to pass on a few comments, to say a few words on behalf of the initiators. It is a good thing that Mr Van Gurp, who has also asked a number of questions about the scope of the bill, says that he is convinced that we have now chosen the right scope for this bill. Mr Dittrich referred to the role of men in an interrupting debate, which was also addressed by Mr Kox. That is something that has always been reflected in this debate, and fortunately also in the Minister's term. Of course, that role remains very important. Because the man cannot play that role in the formal law, as Mrs Ellemeet has explained, it is important that we also pay political attention to this. I would like to say to Mr Verkerk that we appreciate the fact that he has openly indicated his own struggle with this issue. For everyone, this is an issue that you never think lightly about and should at least not think lightly about. We both don't. He outlined how the balance sheet fell on him, which means that he would not be able to support this change in law. I think that it may be important that we respect this careful decision-making and that this has been promised, also in the direction of Mrs De Bruijn, that she will play a very important role in the legislative review that will be launched in four years' time. I do not know whether that means, as Mr Van Gurp hoped, that Mr Verkerk will finally be able to say that he will find that flexible period of reflection the best form. I don't know if that's perspective. But the goal is, of course, to get a little closer together. I would like to say to Mr Van Dijk that we respect the fundamental difference of opinion on this subject. Mr Van Dijk also asked a very specific question about the start of the period of reflection. Let me say the following. The reflection process, the reflection process, as Mrs De Bruijn-Wezeman called it, naturally begins earlier. But that is not the time-limit for formal reflection. The woman together in the conversation with the doctor determines how much reflection time she needs within the meaning of this law in order to reach a careful decision. So legally, the consultation period starts after the first interview with the doctor. Thank you to Mr Kox and Mrs Vos for their clear statements and also to the examples that Mrs Vos put in this debate. I would also like to thank Mrs Baay-Timmerman, who has just left us. We are very pleased that, also in view of her initial contribution, she has said that she is going to advise her group to vote in favour of the legislative proposal. The same applies to Mrs De Bruijn-Wezeman's contribution, who has introduced the word 'consultation process' into this debate. She was right to refer to the evaluation clause. We do indeed hope that we will soon be back in the First Chamber again. That was originally with Mrs Ploumen, but Mrs Kuiken will take over the debate on the initiative law, which means that we will be here again with the same company. Hopefully it will be with Mr Van Wijngaarden, who will hopefully not have contracted another corona contamination. Then Mrs. Prince. That's kind of the cliffhanger that stays. The Minister's commitment has played an important role, but we hope, of course, that in the eyes of the initiators, the period of reflection over the next seven days will turn out to be the right one. At the end of this legislative process, I think it would be good to point out that while we are sitting here together with one of the initiators at home behind the pipe, this law was originally submitted by Pia Dijkstra and later taken over by Rob Jetten, and that employees in the Second Chamber of three different parties have been working on it: Daniel de Rijke, Engelina Kuiken, Neele Jongen, Youri Rijkhoff and Koen Sijtsema. But certainly also by Valérie Smit of Bureau Legislation of the House of Representatives. They've been invaluable. And if I may say so, in a dualistic sense, thanks also to the officials of the Ministry, who have provided the assistance that has enabled us to submit this law to the Lower House and now to the highest house of our States General, the Upper Chamber. So thank them and thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-11.u104	Thank you, Mr. Paternotte. I couldn't have imagined a better ending. I will see if Mrs Ellemeet has anything to add. No. Mrs. Kuik, do you have anything to add to this? No. Then the Minister? For now. I give the floor to the Minister of Health, Welfare and Sport.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-11.u105	After such a beautiful conclusion, like Mr Paternotte's, it is, of course, difficult for me to follow up. But there were some remaining questions. Before I answer that, I would like to follow up on Mrs Vos' comment on a demonstration right around the corner. It is not for me to qualify the way in which this is demonstrated, whether you do it with photos or not with what kind of pictures. What I do like, and I know that Mrs. Vos and your Chamber fully endorse that, is that if you want to protest, this is the right place to do it instead of at the clinics themselves. In the Lower House we also had a discussion about this earlier. At the clinics women come with a question of help, in a situation where they are very vulnerable and they have to make a very difficult decision. I'm sure Mrs. Vos agrees with this. I just wanted to follow up on that demonstration and to do it right here and not at a clinic. Then there were some remaining questions. Mr Dittrich asked about the aftercare for foreign women. Aftercare is part of abortion assistance. This also applies to foreign women, but with the remark that they are often easily excluded from the scope of the aid workers concerned. I would like to assure you that I will ask the Secretary of State to return to this point in the letter referred to above. Then both Mr Dittrich and Mr Kox asked for further attention to be paid to the role of men in repeated abortions. I am very willing to discuss this with field parties. But Mr Kox also gave some indication of this, and I do not see any possibility of making a legal statement on this. Then Mr Van Dijk asked again about the period of reflection, because I had answered the question quickly. I am very willing to repeat the answer once again. The current law, in Article 3.2, states that the period starts to run from the time when the woman has visited the doctor and has discussed her intention with him. Then a minimum period of five days begins. In the proposal before us, the minimum five-day deadline will disappear, but otherwise nothing will change. That is in line with what I said earlier, but I would like to repeat it again. Finally, there was Mrs De Bruijn's question as to whether I would like to send a copy of the second evaluation of the Abrupt Pregnancy Act to the First Chamber. I'd like to do that with my heartfelt heart. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-11.u106	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-11.u107	I'm here to deal with the bill. As usual in the case of own-initiative proposals, I propose that we vote on this next week. I propose that we vote on the motion before us if it is not there. That was today's other debate. Then we came to the end of the meeting. I would like to thank all the members of the House of Representatives, Paternotte, Keiken and Ellemeet, the minister and the staff who made this meeting possible. I'll wish you home.
