ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-11.u1	The next item is the reply and rejoinder of the proposal for a law of Member Leijten amending the Constitution to include provisions relating to the corrective referendum (35729). This is a so-called second reading of the draft Constitution. This means that the House of Representatives can only accept this proposal with a two-thirds majority. I welcome the initiator, Mrs Leijten, in trade union K, as well as her supporter, Mrs Nicole Temmink of the SP, and the advisor to the Chamber, the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations. The first term on the part of the Chamber took place on 13 April. Today, we're supposed to complete the entire legal process with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-11.u2	I shall give the floor very quickly to Mr Ephraim, who will speak on behalf of the Van Haga Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-11.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would once again like to thank the authors for answering the questions and submitting this proposal. I want to be brief; BVNL prefers to let the people speak. BVNL is in favour of the Swiss model: not once every four years vote on one person, but four times a year on subjects. In Switzerland the turnout is high, because referenda are almost part of daily life. That is where we need to go: direct involvement of citizens in important issues that concern everyone. Anyway, like Rome, Switzerland wasn't built in one day. It's going to be exciting if the two-thirds majority is reached. I sincerely hope so. Unfortunately, I didn't have a glass ball, but I didn't regret it: I prepared motions for both outcomes. Depending on the outcome of the vote on the law, I may withdraw one. The first motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government, if the amendment of the Constitution is adopted, to urgently adopt the legislation for a corrective referendum,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ephraim.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35729-9]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-11.u4	I have another motion, with a brief explanation. Even if we adopt the amendment of the Constitution here next week, the proposal could still end in the Upper House. I will put my second motion to the vote anyway, because then there is a safety net. After all, if this constitutional change is accepted here, but unexpectedly not in the First Chamber, it is nice to have a light variant: the good, old, on the battlefield of the previous coalition negotiations killed consultative referendum. Motion two. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas no constitutional change is necessary for an advisory referendum;]] [[calls on the government to send a bill to the Chamber to re-introduce the consultative referendum,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ephraim.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35729-10]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-11.u5	I hope for support for this, because I found so much enthusiasm for an advisory referendum here last time, that hardly anyone can oppose it. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-11.u6	Thank you, Mr. Ephraim. Then we'll go to Mr. Van Nispen, SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-11.u7	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Here we are again on this fundamental issue: the referendum. About control for people. We are, of course, talking about confidence in politics and confidence in democracy every week. Those are not always good debates. For example, I myself think with horror of last week's debate, in which the Prime Minister felt it necessary to wipe the House of Representatives out of the pan because it would not contribute to confidence in politics, with all those critical questions and control of power. I very much disagree with that, but let me not repeat that debate. The heart of the matter is for me, and that is why I am thinking of the fact that there is an initiative for the House of Representatives which is doing its stinking best to bring that confidence in politics very concretely with a well thought-out proposal and thereby strengthen democracy. It is therefore a question of trust in politics, and I think we should appreciate it and do it right. But it is the same parties, the VVD and the CDA, that have been in power for many years and are supplying ministers and Prime Minister, who are threatening to block this. They are threatening to block people from gaining more control. For the SP, democracy is more than just giving people the right to go to the ballot box once every four years, and then they have to keep their mouths shut. We believe that we should give people the right to whistle back the drivers when they make decisions that people really do not want. The corrective referendum is a means in the hands of people. Let's give them that confidence. That would be good for confidence in politics. The SP isn't the only one who thinks so. A lot of parties here are happy about that. But perhaps even more importantly, the State Committee on Parliament's system, the Remkes Committee, has explicitly recommended a remedially binding referendum. The referendum as a complement to representative democracy and as a good rebuttal to diploma democracy. Because people with practical training and lower income are less well represented and less confident. I said all that in the first term. In the first term, I also filled in the arguments used by opponents of the referendum. I will repeat them very briefly. First of all, the "the electorate is a bit stupid" argument, while we do ask voters to always judge the entire electoral programmes. The second argument is the 'the referendum does not fit in with our parliamentary democracy' argument, which, of course, has been undermined by the Remkes Committee. Thirdly, the argument that yes-no issues would be too simplistic and that we cannot simply ask people for a yes or no. We ask ourselves, then, what are we always doing here on Tuesdays when we have to vote on hundreds of motions, amendments and legislative proposals? And yes, those arguments did indeed all come along, especially from the VVD side. The initiator, Mrs Leijten, has also given a comprehensive response and response to these unfounded objections and fears of the opponents of the referendum. I really hope that there is a progressive understanding of the VVD and the CDA. Let us hope that these parties do not continue to block the fact that we are going to increase people's control, improve confidence in politics and strengthen democracy. I have placed my hopes particularly on the individual members of the CDA and the VVD groups. That is why I would like to request a roll-call vote on the final legislative proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-11.u8	Thank you. I shall now give the floor to Mr Sneller of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-11.u9	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the initiator and the Minister for reply. We've had an extensive first term, so I think we can keep it short. I have argued that, although this is not the ideal referendum for us, I will at least advise all 24 Members of my group to vote in favour. I hear there's going to be a roll-call vote. I also asked in the first term for the possibility to split up. I actually had in my head that we would see if we could break down that threshold, which was a problem for the Senate, somehow. But the interruption debate with the Christian Union also showed that this is still necessary and that this is rather complicated. My question to the initiator and the minister: can the possibility be created to split up the decentralised part, the part that makes it possible for provinces and municipalities to complete a binding referendum themselves? Does it seem useful to them, also in view of the present balance of power, to put that to the vote as a separate part? What possibility do they see for that? I am pleased that Mr Van Houwelingen has felt better or convinced the members of the Forum for Democracy. I would also like to endorse Mr Van Nispen's call to think very carefully about this next week's votes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-11.u10	Thank you. Then we go to Mr. Strolenberg, VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-11.u11	Thank you, Mr President. In any case, I would like to thank Mrs Leijten for her answers. I would also like to express my appreciation for those who have been involved. It has not changed our position, as indicated in the first term. There goes the cliffhanger. As far as we are concerned, we involve residents on the front of policy and law processes, through civic participation. We have also heard the Minister as an advisor say that she is working on existing forms of civic participation at national and decentralised level. Among other things, she is working on the challenge law, the law strengthening participation at the decentralised level and the implementation of the motion to involve young people more in decision-making. We think that is a good thing. On the contrary, I want to boost and improve these existing forms of civic participation and to develop new forms of participation. Together with the CDA, I will table a motion for this. Mrs Van Dijk will explain this later. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-11.u12	Thank you. Then we'll go to Mrs. Van der Graaf, Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-11.u13	Thank you, Madam President, for the floor. Thank you to Mrs Leijten for the way in which she defended this law with such passion and enthusiasm in the first term. There was a deep desire for our democracy and everyone who feels involved, even if that is not the case at the moment, that this law should be able to contribute to it. Thank you for that. Mrs Leijten has expressed the conviction that referenda organise the social and political debate in society in order to bring people from different backgrounds and training courses who no longer naturally meet each other in the supermarket, the association or the neighborhood. I therefore hope with her that this binding corrective referendum will contribute to better listening to each other. Mrs Leijten also quoted the state committee. The State Commission strongly calls on the constitutionalist to take seriously both the nature and the extent of the social divide and the dangers that could threaten our democratic rule of law within and outside the political system. There are two red threads in that final report, namely the need to improve the substantive representation and the need to strengthen the resilience of the democratic rule of law. They leave nothing to be desired for clarity. Insight is already enough, though thinking never stops, but time is much less. Mr. Chairman. I would like to give these words to those colleagues who may still be in doubt, although the VVD has just shown that they are already completely out of the question. Nevertheless, I hope that they will take it up again and reconsider this. The Christian Union Group therefore supports this proposal at second reading, not because we believe that a binding corrective referendum is a solution to any problem in the relationship between people and government, but because we share the heart cry as Mrs Leijten put it: giving people confidence, also in the hope of regaining confidence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-11.u14	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mrs Inge van Dijk, CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-11.u15	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Many thanks, too, to Mrs Leijten. I'm very impressed with how you did it and how you defended it. I can only have a great deal of respect for it. Talking with each other, as the Christian Union has just argued, is also very important to us. It is also really our wish that we take great steps in this regard. We have that desire to do so really in front. We need to put a lot of energy into that. We believe that many citizens know very well what is good for them, and we would like them to think along in order to ensure that the decisions that are to be made are well thought out on the front and are also aligned with our citizens. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the number of possibilities for effective citizen participation in Dutch democracy is limited;]] [[Whereas citizen participation at the start of the policy process contributes to improving the quality and acceptance of policies and legislation;]] [[calls on the Government to evaluate existing forms of citizen participation at national level, such as civil councils, on the basis of this evaluation, to improve existing forms of citizen participation and to propose new forms of citizen participation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Inge van Dijk, Mr Strolenberg and Mr Agnes Mulder.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35729-11]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-11.u16	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-11.u17	I actually have the question of what this motion has to do with this debate at all. We are having a debate here on a legislative proposal from an initiative-taking Member of Parliament on the corrective referendum. I do know that VVD and CDA are not in favour of giving people real control. They have now shown this in the first and second periods. Then I think it comes to me a little bit about... especially if it is not..... as a sort of pubic person, like: we don't really want to give people control, but we do want to do one thing, so we're going to talk about getting involved in front. I think that's what you really want. That's not the problem, that's credible. This debate is about giving real control to people when directors make decisions that people really don't want. You don't want to give them that right. Mrs Van Dijk says: instead we are going to take care of something in the front. That's not possible in this debate, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-11.u18	I have heard you say that we would think citizens were stupid. I think that has hit me quite a bit, because we don't think so. That is why we want to involve them in decisions on the front, so that we can take decisions here that are much more widely supported than is sometimes the case at present. We all know the examples, where we really hear on the street of "do you have to do this?', where we don't have enough involvement and we just make accidents. We believe that we should invest seriously in this. What kind of relationship does that have with this debate? This debate is about controlling citizens, letting people think along and giving them a say. That's what we want to do. That's what we want to do in front. That costs a lot more energy, and I'm sure that goes wrong a lot. It is the difficult road; I am well aware of that. But precisely because we believe very much in the strength and capacity of our citizens, we want to do so and we believe that this is appropriate to this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-11.u19	I did not say that Mrs Van Dijk called people stupid. I have said that all these arguments have come to light in this debate. That's the first thing. But then about the motion. He's got nothing to do with it. It is a law of an initiativeary MP on the corrective referendum. You come up with a completely different proposal, which does not replace the whistling of directors who make decisions that people do not want. You're putting something next to it. You can do that, but I find it very strange. It sounds to me like a pubess of 'we do not support people's control, but we do something for it instead of what may be complementary to each other'. So why this motion after all? That's a bit of an apology, isn't it? I can't see him any other way.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-11.u20	I see it right, if we succeed, as a fundamental change in how we work and deal with our citizens. I just want to put a lot of energy into that. We can differ on this, but we believe that involving it at the front leads to better legislation. This will prevent us from setting a hand brake. That is how we look at this matter. Hence this motion. Not a shame, but a sincere conviction that we need to involve people in front much better.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-11.u21	I hope that I can also read out support for the introduction of the right of citizens' amendments. We could have done that now if the CDA had supported it in the previous period. My question is about the local authorities. I have just asked the question about separating the possibility for municipalities and provinces to decide for themselves, as the CDA in Limburg wanted, to introduce a binding referendum at local level. How does Mrs Van Dijk look at that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-11.u22	We are very much in favour of local autonomy and very much in favour of having municipalities and provinces make their own choices. I do not have a position on this now, because it is not before now. I can imagine that we can certainly continue to talk about this, but above all we can talk about it from the bottom up and from what fits the local situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-11.u23	A slight difference in nuance. It's ahead, because it's in this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-11.u24	But it's not split up.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-11.u25	No, but that's the beauty of it. The key lies somewhere in the CDA, if it can legally, to break it down and to help it to the two-thirds majority. The question is indeed whether the CDA is in favour of giving municipalities and provinces that opportunity to decide for themselves on the basis of the idea that is very much in line with the CDA. It is not a question of imposing it, but of giving it the opportunity to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-11.u26	I am actually sorry that we did not have this debate together in the first period, because that would have given me the opportunity to discuss and think through this in a little more detail within the group. Personally, I am not so negative about it at all, but it is now very difficult for me to say here, without going back to my constituency, when we have already had a first term, how I will decide on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-11.u27	Finally, Mr Sneller.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-11.u28	I understand that very well. It has focused on the national level. That also gets the most attention, including in the motion. But this was in the legislative proposal after amendment at first reading. There is another group meeting before the votes, I think, so let's not let that go to waste. We are now at the second reading. If the CDA Group now says 'we want to' with Mrs Van Dijk, we may be able to save this part. That would be good for local democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-11.u29	Maybe I will. I will bring it seriously, but I am not going to give any guarantee here that I will change my group's mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-11.u30	Thank you. Finally, I would like to give the floor to Mr Baudet of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-11.u31	Madam President. We have made our objections to this amended referendum law known in detail in the first term. The referendum is a wonderful starting point: giving people a binding voice in new laws. They may say no to certain proposals. But the party cartel did two mean tricks with that. Firstly, the result of the vote must be so high that it is almost impossible in practice. Between 100% and 130% of the turnout should vote against if you have an average turnout, so that's going to be very difficult. The second is that all kinds of issues are also excluded from that referendum. Nevertheless, we have said that we are going to present it to our Members. Our members have spoken and we, at the Forum for Democracy, do make binding statements by our members, to binding referendums. We are therefore following with conviction the majority of our Members. They have said in a digital member referendum with more than 55% that they want to give this flawed referendum a chance in the end. We're just gonna try. We're gonna vote for it. At the same time, we are going to work to improve it and to come up with proposals for improvement. We are going to try to make a flawed referendum grow step by step towards a real referendum. I have a number of motions to try to give this form right away, but I would like to start by saying that we are going to vote in favour. Why are we so sceptical about this non-binding? That's actually very good to explain with two pictures. This is the picture of the 2005 results. Almost two thirds of the Dutch population voted against a European constitution. The Treaty of Lisbon is the same as the Treaty establishing a Constitution for the European Communities. The Dutch population has therefore been completely ignored. You can actually say that it was silenced, but it is after she was allowed to speak first. Secondly, in 2016 there was a referendum on the Association Treaty with Ukraine. Oh, how right the Dutch people were. We are now seeing what this stupid approach to Ukraine has led to and what a fateful war that has resulted in. Of course, the Ukrainians will be the terrible tragic victims of this. But what had the Dutch people seen well at the time and how terrible it was how that was handled, also here, with Rutte and his insert sheet. None of that was true. This association agreement has simply come about, bringing Ukraine closer to the EU, to the trade part, but also to the military part, which we now see every day. So you can not only see that the Dutch people are ignored; you can also see that the Dutch people are right over and over again. So that is why we are so in favour of these referendums and hope that they will eventually become binding. Maybe the messenger can hand out these pictures in memory of the members of the cartel, because it can't be shown often enough. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-11.u32	They are your colleagues, the colleagues of the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-11.u33	I have fellow officials, but I don't have any colleagues.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-11.u34	That's better than the other word you used.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-11.u35	Party cartel. So, remembering these two things, I would like to emphasise once again how important it is that the referendum becomes binding. Nevertheless, we shall vote in favour. I have the next three motions to start the improvements right away. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Netherlands is called a democracy;]] [[points out that, in a democracy, the wishes of the majority of the population must be guiding and that the results of referendums should therefore be followed in principle,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Baudet.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35729-12]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-11.u36	Then there's the second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the binding referendum now before us has too high an outcome threshold, which minimises the possibility that the Dutch Government should consider the outcome of the referendum as legally binding;]] [[calls on the government to consider the outcome, however high that outcome threshold may be, as binding,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Baudet.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35729-13]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-11.u37	Finally. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the number of signatures to be retrieved in order to initiate a referendum will be regulated by ministerial rule;]] [[calls on the government to ensure that the number of signatures to be retrieved does not exceed 300,000,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Baudet.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35729-14]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-11.u38	Finally, I would like to congratulate the author on this initiative proposal. It's been a lot of work. It has been a tough ride, but let us hope that, thanks to our support, it will reach the two-thirds majority.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-11.u39	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the second term of office. The initiator and the minister have indicated that they need about ten minutes to prepare themselves. So I'm suspending the sitting until 3:35 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-11.u40	I give the floor to Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-11.u41	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to wish Mr Van der Ham, my first-term supporter and certainly warm advocate of referenda in the Netherlands, a pleasant stay with his family. He's not in the Netherlands, so he can't be here. I would like to wish Mr Van Raak, also a warm advocate, and also support and indulge in a referendum. Unfortunately, he couldn't be there because of illness. This debate is about the control of citizens, of residents, said Mrs Van Dijk of the CDA just now. This debate is about the state of democracy, and democracy belongs to everyone. Democracy is not just about directors and not just about legislators, where we are co-legislators, of course. Democracy ultimately belongs to everyone. We are concerned about the state of democracy, about the participation of people in elections. We have just had the municipal elections, where we see that more than half of the Dutch did not vote to help determine their future when it comes to what is decided in municipalities. That's what we're supposed to be worried about. That was also the concern of the Remkes State Commission. In Low thresholds, high dikes they describe it as follows: "The State Committee recommends that the binding corrective referendum be introduced. The binding corrective referendum is a remedy against a poor representation of the population and a correction of parliamentary decision-making that is not supported by the majority of the population. The State Committee sees the binding corrective referendum in this sense as an addition to representative democracy and as an important contribution to the future stability of the parliamentary system." We're here in second reading and it's exciting. Mr Ephraim said it, Mr Sneller said it, and Mr Van Nispen even called for parliamentary groups. It's exciting, too. And we've been standing here for the umpteenth time. In 1999 it was already killed in the First Chamber. We had a law for a consultative referendum. It was withdrawn when the experiences were not so good. It is therefore firmly convinced that it must be included in the Constitution. That is why we are dealing with it as closely as possible and need two-thirds majority at second reading. I would like to say to the groups that oppose this addition to representative democracy: do not put the brakes on progress, do not put the brakes on the restoration of confidence in democracy. Of course, we have to do our job well representatively and every Member of Parliament tries to do so adequately. Of course, ministers and their officials and the government are trying to make the best possible laws. What is the problem if we give the population an instrument to correct it if they want to? We don't have to distrust the people. Not at all. Remkes called his VVD to vote in favour. I can only repeat that. And then we have to do something in front. Of course, we need to involve people, take all kinds of experiences, but that does not conflict with this proposal. It's en-and-and. It's exciting, it's all about it. I really call on the VVD Group and the CDA Group not to be the brake on progress. I have argued in the first term that I think that referenda and holding referendums bring people on arguments closer together. When was it so much about what we want with the European Union as in 2005? I gave that my memory in my first term. Everyone was talking about it, because you could say something about it. Your voice mattered. When is it at the kitchen table about exactly what the AIVD can do in keeping the country safe? This was the case in 2017, because the referendum had arrived. Then you may find the outcome annoying, but no driver will get worse if we give the people the right to speak about decisions that have been taken. That is the firm conviction. I would like to comment on a number of comments made in motions for resolutions. There are a lot of them aimed at the government, which I think we can do ourselves; you can also do own-initiative legislation. But I think it's a bit of a you-bake. That's not what I meant. In any case, I should like to refer to the motion on item No. 12 by Mr Baudet, who has come under number 4. "The results of referendums should be followed in principle" would certainly be desirable. But at the moment when 15 people are going to vote in a referendum, it is impossible to say that that majority can decide for the whole population. That is why the State Committee has also said: it would be good if you had a certain degree of a threshold of outcome. And I also argued in the first term that we would rather not have had that in the Constitution, but that if you took the census of the state committee, it would have been rather high. You just have to win a referendum convincingly if you really want to reject it, to make it binding. Well, that motion is a speech-expression addressed to the Chamber, but I don't see how it adds so much. This is a request to the government, and then there was...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-11.u42	Before you go any further, there is a question from Mr Baudet, Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-11.u43	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I would like to comment on this because this is about my motion. Look, Mrs Leijten gives an extreme example: let's say that only seven people are going to vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-11.u44	Fifteen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-11.u45	Yeah, or 15 or something, and then something gets rejected. Then you can say it's impossible to take that seriously. But if all the people in the population have had the chance to vote, it hasn't been at a weird time and there have been no weird obstacles and so on, so they just got the chance to vote and finally very few people have come, why not follow it? Because then apparently the overwhelming part of the population is indifferent, and a very small part, an extremely small part, finds something of that. Well, then it is no doubt not a subject that lives hugely or has many consequences. Then why not just say: of the people who voted, a majority want this; then we can just do it? What's wrong with that? Why would you even have an outcome threshold or a turnout threshold?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-11.u46	I said in the defence in the first term that I am democrat enough to defend this constitutional change, with the amendment that came at first reading, and that we would have preferred not to have had it at first; that is what you should have done with an implementing law, is our firm conviction. By putting that in the Constitution, you're just making it harder to change. Nevertheless, there is something to say that there is an outcome threshold to declare it binding. In replying to Mrs Bromet's first question, I said: nothing stands in the way of us as political groups, as a Chamber, in declaring it binding, even if it is not legally binding. We can do anything with that rash. We can deal with the concerns; we can ensure that it is made politically. I think that's our job. I'll be right back to your proposal on the application and the signatures. The state committee also says this: if you really want to make it binding, then it is good that rules are put in place to prevent a very small minority from deciding for a large majority. Somehow, I agree that we, as representatives of the people, can always take the outcome to heart, even though it is not legally binding, and always try to find majorities for it, so that it may be binding in practice. But I think that pronunciation is very difficult. If the binding corrective referendum is adopted, it may also be very good that we say in advance that we will always follow it on a subject that the Forum for Democracy Group really does not agree with.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-11.u47	I do not hear any argument, just a repetition of what Mrs Leijten said earlier: that she is apparently also in favour of a threshold of turnout or outcome, and only wants to regulate this in a different way. But why would you do that? If all the people with the right to vote in the population have been given the opportunity to vote, but apparently only a very small part is showing up, then that other part does not seem to think it is important enough. Well, then you can say perfectly well: the majority of those who have risen decide that? Why do you even have to have a threshold?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-11.u48	I did reply to that, namely that the state committee also says that you should not have a majority in a referendum, even if a small minority decides for a large majority.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-11.u49	That's not an argument, is it? That the state committee...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-11.u50	Wait, Mrs Leijten was still speaking.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-11.u51	I said I follow that. That doesn't take away...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-11.u52	Wait, wait, wait, Mr. Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-11.u53	That doesn't change the fact that if you listen to the results, you can apply them here. That's what I said. Every group is free to do so. That is what I said in the first term. I think it's a little crazy to impose that on such a motion. You could even get into the situation, Mr Baudet, that you, with your party and your supporters, say: once we do not follow a result of a small minority. That's possible, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-11.u54	"That's possible, isn't it?" That is therefore an undemocratic view. I find it very strange that Mrs Leijten is defending it here. In Switzerland, for example, you have no entry threshold and no exit threshold. It's just the way it is: the majority that comes up decides. The majority that is going to vote will decide that. You just give a perverse impulse to the opponents, because they think: we all stay home and then we stop the validity of the referendum. The only way to really motivate people to participate in the referendum is by saying that anyone who votes here will definitely participate, and the majority will vote. Why would you have to say you have to be so many?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-11.u55	I'm standing here defending a law that says so. So I don't understand what Mr Baudet is doing here. I am defending that law, giving an instrument in my hands to obtain a binding corrective referendum. That is better than the consultative referendum that we had and which we spoke about when it was abolished. The point is: the moment you have a result, you can always declare it binding as a party, as a Chamber, as a government, but if you make it legal, there is a way of requesting that you put something on the agenda. Then there is a measure to make it legally binding. That's what I said in the first term. That's what I'm saying again. I do not think this motion adds much to that. We have already exchanged all the arguments on this subject, even in the first term. And then say that I am undemocratic, while here I am defending a democratic instrument, which in any case comes into the Constitution. Well...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-11.u56	You've exchanged enough. You will continue your speech. Mr. Baudet, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-11.u57	I am not saying that the principle of a referendum is undemocratic. I say I think it's an undemocratic element to have a threshold. Now Mrs Leijten says: I am only here defending a law. No, she says that she is also, on her own, in favour of an outcome threshold or a turnout threshold, so not because it is in the law and from the idea: better a bad law than no law. No, she says she's in favour of that herself. I responded to that. And now she's gonna play hide-and-seek. I think it is important to put that right.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-11.u58	Finally, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-11.u59	I said in both the first and the second term that I would rather not have seen this threshold, even when it comes to constitutional pollution and that sort of thing, but that I am a democrat enough to defend him. I said I'd rather have a referendum that might not be able to make it. I have also argued in the first term: I am optimistic that it is possible that we can have a good debate on an issue that really lives among the population and that parties and civil society organisations are doing their job to inform voters, residents and call for a vote. When you fail to reach the threshold, you can always consider him binding here in Parliament. I don't think I can say more than that. Then there is the motion on the 300,000 signatures. The state committee mentioned an introductory request for 5,000 signatures...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-11.u60	That's the motion in part No. 14.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-11.u61	Yes. The State Committee referred to an introductory request for 5,000 signatures and 400,000 signatures as a declaration of support, but digitally, so less difficult than in that consultative referendum. 'Cause then you really had to go to City Hall and sign and ID you. I think it is arbitrary, 300,000 or 400,000, but with this motion, Mr Baudet, of course, shows that you have to lay down certain rules when you can hold a referendum and therefore have a result. Finally, Mr Sneller's proposal to split up D66. I understand that's legal. It would be great if part of the law were passed. That would require a two-thirds majority. So let's see if there's a chance of success, because I think it makes sense to investigate. That means that these legislative proposals will be put to the vote in two blocks. In order to be adopted, they both need a two-thirds majority. So let's explore that. It has to be before the votes. It may be that this will mean that the votes will not be next week but a little later. The Minister has already indicated that she will provide all the support she can to achieve this. So I say to Mr Sneller that we will see if we can do that. I would therefore point out that the roll-call vote requested by the SP may not take place next Tuesday.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-11.u62	I would like to thank Mrs Leijten for her reply. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-11.u63	Thank you, Mr President. To conclude on Mrs Leijten's point on the right of division, the following. I think it would be good for both Members and the Acts to outline the background. Only the Lower House can decide to split a proposal. If this is done at second reading, such a division proposal will only be adopted with a two-thirds majority. Only parts between which there is a certain, but not necessary direct connection may be split. At second reading, division is of a more limited nature, since only parts between which there is no direct link can be split. In the government's view, splitting should lead to two fully-fledged separate proposals. Article 128a on the municipalities and provinces and Article 133a on the waterboards can be split from the rest of the proposal. In the government's view, then, there are two proposals that remain to be dealt with in full and in isolation. However, the right of division is a right of the Lower House and it is ultimately up to the Chamber to decide whether the proposal can be split. So I am giving the opinion here, but the Chamber will still have to decide whether the proposal can be split up.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-11.u64	How do we do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-11.u65	This is a rather unique situation. I think a divisional proposal rarely occurs to never. My proposal is that I should first deal with the motions and then come back to Mr Bosma's good question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-11.u66	Then suddenly you get a hunch.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-11.u67	Then sometimes a paper note comes to me with a good answer. I have an idea, by the way, but I also think it is important for our legal lawyers to have a look at it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-11.u68	I am also thinking with my limited constitutional knowledge, but it is, of course, a proposal from the Chamber itself. Mrs Leijten is a Member of Parliament. It is not a proposal from the Minister but from Mrs Leijten. So we in the Chamber have to decide in one way or another whether or not to do so. So before we vote, we have to make a decision to split it up. Perhaps the initiator should take the initiative, but I would not know how.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-11.u69	That's what I'm telling you. At least it's not something I can set in motion as a minister. The advice I give as a neutral advisor is that it is technically and legally possible. Whether we do so indeed requires a decision of the Chamber. As far as the procedure is concerned, I think it is a matter of looking at what is best to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-11.u70	Of course, we also need some time to find out about this unique issue. And it is indeed a matter of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-11.u71	As an advisor, of course, I try to think along. As I have just said, such a division proposal should be adopted by two-thirds majority. The last time this was tried, I think it was in 2006 with the elected mayor. Maybe it's good to look for that. Some still remember what the outcome was. Anyway, that's a whole different story. Mr. Chairman. Debates of the European Parliament 9 states that if the constitutional amendment is adopted, the legislation must be adopted urgently for the corrective referendum. That's a motion I'm giving you, Chamber. Mr. Chairman. Debates of the European Parliament 10 is about reintroducing the consultative referendum. I say to Mr Ephraim that the cabinet currently has no proposals, ideas or plans to do so. So I'm gonna dissuade that motion. The motion by Mrs Van Dijk on item No. 11 calls for the evaluation and improvement of forms of civic participation. I'm giving that motion judgment room. For Mr Baudet's motion on item No. 12, which states that the results of referendums must be followed, is true that this legislative proposal contains a threshold, as Mrs Leijten argues. Oh, no, that's a speech-expression and it's up to the Chamber to rule on that. As a minister, I have no active role in this. For the call in the motion in part No. 13 to the government to follow up on any result, it is true that this bill, in the Constitution, already contains a threshold of outcome. We're supposed to follow them legally. That's why I have to discourage that motion. I do follow what Mrs Leijten says: it is always up to the Chamber to deal with such a result. However, I would advise against this motion because the Constitution lays down the threshold of outcome. The motion in part No. 14 also belongs to Mr Baudet. It's asking for the number of signatures to be no higher than 300,000. It's just really up to the Chamber to judge that, so I'll leave that to the Chamber too.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-11.u72	So the motion in part No. 14 gets judgment Room?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-11.u73	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-11.u74	Before proceeding, I give the floor to Mr Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-11.u75	But the law states that it is determined by ministerial regulation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-11.u76	This is the law of execution.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-11.u77	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-11.u78	That's why I'm giving the motion in part No. 14 Judgment Room. Mr. Chairman. With the paper I was talking about, the split procedure: it was indeed about what just came to my mind, so it was about the discussion about an elected mayor in 2006.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-11.u79	Look! Mrs Leijten says that the legislative lawyers of the Chamber are already in the process.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-11.u80	Finally, as a minister, as a neutral advisor, I would also like to congratulate Mrs Leijten and her advisers. Because an issue of an initiative proposal is already huge and certainly for a constitutional proposal it is much bigger. It takes a lot of effort, a lot of time, a lot of commitment and also a form of courage to continue. I would also like to emphasise this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-11.u81	Thank you. That concludes this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-11.u82	I would like to thank the initiator, Mrs Leijten, and also her supporter Nicole Temmink of the SP Group. It has already been said by the Minister: an initiative law is an enormous amount of work. I have to say, it's always exciting what happens all of a sudden. I believe that this initiative law has done so again. The planning is still that we are going to vote next Tuesday. We have also been asked to vote jointly and severally on the legislative proposal. We're gonna see if we can do that, because there's a couple of things that need to be figured out. I would also like to thank the Minister for her advice to the Chamber. I would like to thank the spokesmen and the people who have followed this debate from the public gallery. I would also like to thank the people at home and, of course, wish the initiator every success in the follow-up steps. Then I'll suspend the meeting for a single moment and then we'll move on to another law, not an initiative law, but a law: the law for strengthening decentralised audit chambers.
