ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u1	Today we are discussing the Amendment of the National Education Support Activities Act 2013 related to the allocation of legal tasks in the field of internationalisation within education. I would, of course, like to welcome Mr Dijkgraaf, Minister for Education, Culture and Science, as well as my fellow chamber members. Like I said, it's Thursday. We're gonna deal with a law. The sun's shining. So I would say that everything is in order to ensure that it is a good debate. Then, of course, I come to the moment for which we are all here. That's that MPs are gonna talk.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u2	We shall begin with Mr Bishop of the SGP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u3	Madam President, thank you very much for the floor. I'd like to ask for some clemency in advance. The previous speaker list also included colleague Van der Molen of the CDA. He is unable to speak and asked us to speak on behalf of the CDA. He had a seven-minute reservation at the time. I'm not asking to use the full seven minutes extra, but if I exceed my seven minutes, I'm asking for some understanding.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u4	I will. It actually works very simple for me. I assume that everyone is mature enough to hold the debate in a reasonable manner. I will give the room, but you have the responsibility to deal with it in a good way. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u5	Mr President, thank you. I'll try to behave accordingly. Mr. Chairman. In 2008, at a certain point in the newspaper, the news headlined "Dutch universities score excellent in the distribution of European research grants." In 2014 there was also such a message: "The Netherlands brings in billions of European grants." It was even more positive in 2020: "The Netherlands' success rate for applications is extremely good." What common denominator can we draw from these headlines on the performance of Dutch education and research in the EU? There is clearly only one conclusion: the Dutch field of knowledge is doing very well in Brussels and apparently knows how to find the way. However, this conclusion immediately raises the key question as to this bill. What is the problem with this proposal? The SGP does not have so many questions about Nuffic's position. It is fine and necessary to better regulate the role of this organisation. But why do we need to introduce a new public regime for activities that are already doing an excellent job? Even after answering the questions, the SGP is not sufficiently clear as to the need for legislation to provide information on the European Union. The government assumes that a legal person is legally entrusted with this task, but why is that so? This task is already being carried out with satisfaction on the basis of current cooperation. The government still mentions the possible risk of state aid. Is it true that Nuffic is now the main risk? And if that risk would already apply to Neth-ER, the Netherlands house for Education and Research, isn't the logical first question whether we should just stop funding? Madam President. Last year the Council of State warned against increasing government responsibility. From the perspective of expectation management towards society, the limits of ministerial responsibility should be much clearer according to the Council of State. This bill is exactly the opposite. The fact that the Minister is responsible for the proper functioning of the field of knowledge does not mean that there is a need for legislative tasks and regulations. Take a look at the draft statute of the new association. Why should the promotion of contact synergies, a proactive attitude and ambition be done on the basis of legal guidance? Isn't this the most important thing we should expect from the ambitious adult field of education itself? Another example of the demand for the boundaries of the public service mission is the obligation to conduct a student satisfaction survey. Our group believes that the role of the government may be more robust in other respects, for example when it comes to the position of Dutch, the landmark. At 130 universities in 40 countries, 13,500 Dutch students are provided and offered worldwide. As far as we are concerned, that would be a typical thing that could expect stronger support from the Dutch government. I would like a response from the Minister in relation to his system responsibility on these points. Madam President. The SGP also raises the risk of precedent. Why should the legal designation of an organisation proposed by the government not apply to sectors such as monuments, sport, care and culture? These are also sectors subject to care obligations under the Constitution, for which cooperation is useful and where knowledge about opportunities within the EU strengthens the Dutch position. In order to stay in education: why not legally designate an organisation to inform about, among other things, European grants for bilingual education, as a cooperation of the PO Council, the VO Council, the Education Council and the European platform of foundational education? I hope this doesn't give the cabinet any ideas. The SGP lacks a distinctive criterion in the legislative proposal that limits the ever-increasing role of the government. That is why I tabled an amendment with Mr Van der Molen to delete the legal designation of Neth-ER. Madam President. In answering the questions, the government states that there is no private field of knowledge. That is partly true, for example when we look at settings like NWO and the Academy. However, many institutions are private institutions, for example the special universities. They also contribute to the public task, but in a different way from those mentioned. Does the bill not take too little account of the private nature and responsibility of many of these institutions? Mr. Chairman. It seems to be a minor legislative amendment and a brief debate, but there is a basic administrative question for the CDA and for the SGP. This is set out in relation to the limits of the statutory public service obligation. It now seems, in this proposal, to be more specific because of the need to regulate funding for Neth-ER. But that does not seem to us to be a strong motive, also given the fact that other sectors are also making their own decisions. Mr. Chairman. I'm sorry for the critical input, but there are some fundamental questions here. I would appreciate it if the Minister would reflect on that in detail. This may even lead to the realization that this bill could be withdrawn. That would be really nice. Mr President, thank you very much for the opportunity to speak.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u6	Mr. Bishop, thank you. You have an interruption and you never have to apologize for making a critical statement. I think this is the place to do that. Mrs. Van der Laan of D66 has an interruption for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u7	I'm trying to understand. If I understand correctly, Mr Bisschop shares the view that the Netherlands has done very well in the international context in recent years, including the role of Neth-ER in this. For the past 15 years, Neth-ER has received a grant through OCW. That has been included in the budget all along. So my observation is that we share that positivity together. Then I have a question, because the reason for this legislative proposal is that, on the basis of this grant, there may be State aid. My first question to Mr Bishop is: is this law technically necessary to remove that state aid risk? Do you share that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u8	Thank you to Mr Van der Laan for the question. I think my argument shows that I do not share that. I think that if this is already a real risk, because it will first have to be established that there would be a charge of state aid that could also be dealt with through other schemes. The essence of my objection is, in fact, that you are now going to state something which, although with financial support from the Ministry, is socially anchored. This raises the question of the limits of public authority.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u9	Yes, I heard that very well in your earlier speech, but what does the SGP propose? The reason is that we want to reduce the risk of State aid as much as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u10	I am trying to point out that there are other routes to avoid that risk; at least to avoid the risk of possible State aid being blamed. If we go through this line, we should also pay attention to monuments, sports and all kinds of other areas, but wherever the government subsidises. Do you have to make this kind of arrangement there? So where are the limits of this further statement in this area?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u11	Mrs Van der Laan, a second question; that is possible. I think there's gonna be an interruption after that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u12	It's a little rhetorical, too. But if Mrs Van der Laan wants to answer, that's very good. I appreciate that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u13	I also take the question rhetorically. In front of me today, the limit is on this bill. I shall, of course, also dwell on this in my contribution. I would like to take a closer look at the opinion of the Council of State, because, as far as I am concerned, the authors of the amendment have a slightly different explanation of that opinion. In your amendment, you say: 'The Council of State, in its opinion on ministerial responsibility, calls for a sharper definition of system responsibility'. I noted a different explanation because the Council of State did not express any reservations about Neth-ER in the opinion on this bill. My question to the authors is therefore where exactly the link between the opinion of the Council of State, your explanation and Neth-ER comes from.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u14	I don't know if you should interpret that this way. We note that last year the Council of State also explicitly called for attention to be paid to the risk of increasing public responsibility, which now also has its legal basis. So it's more in that general sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u15	I have a question about the amendment tabled by Mr Bishop with Mr Van der Molen. He actually proposes that the legal entity introduced by this bill, which the Minister can designate, should be deleted. Mr Bishop and Mr Van der Molen said in the explanatory statement that the sector could stand on its own feet. He says more in the explanatory statement, but I think this is at the heart of the explanatory statement. I would like to ask whether it would not be much better and more efficient for all information on internationalisation to be gathered, offered and collected by one organisation. Isn't it much better to be able to serve students and teachers in this way?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u16	The first is that the sector can stand on its own feet. I have tried in my intro to make it clear that the sector is very successful in this respect. In that sense, you do not need this bill, nor do you need this regulation. And secondly, you make the bill more vulnerable the moment you think about an organization and explicitly call it. 'Cause what if you want to organize it differently? Then you must have a law change. That is not an elegant way of legislation as far as we are concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u17	I think that the essence of the difference of opinion that we can have is also the question of where the boundaries of government lie in the area of internationalisation. What is the ultimate responsibility of this minister as a system administrator and not responsible for? And does that include internationalization? Then I would say that if we look closely at higher education and research and the importance of international knowledge sharing, there is a responsibility for this minister. I think, but then I might fill it in too much, that it's something else for the SGP. But of course the question is why the amendment is needed. Because if you think that institutions should be able to organise that themselves, you can of course still ask the question whether it is better to do so bundled, because that way it is better done and you might also prevent information being offered in a fragmented way. International recognition of diplomas and all the requirements that exist in the international field do, of course, require a certain amount of knowledge. So can we not invest this better with one organisation than with all kinds of different knowledge institutions?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u18	That is a fair question, only if we see that this knowledge is combined, that the sector itself has organized, and that it is already being realized in that sector itself, then you must seriously ask yourself whether it should be prescribed by law. Of course the Minister's system is responsible, but the Minister is not responsible in the sense that it determines and prescribes how it is done. The assignment is that it happens. If this is organised by the sector itself, and it is successful, then you must seriously ask yourself whether you, as a government, even want to prescribe how that happens. That is, in fact, what is happening in this legislative proposal. It may be that the panels have been moved in ten years, and it's more convenient and smart to redesign it. Then you have a legal prescription. The essence of our objection is the statement that is taking place here. We would like to place much more emphasis on social anchoring. This gives some flexibility and is also supported by the sector itself. In that sense, therefore, this bill is not appropriate; let me say it nicely. But thank you for your questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u19	Then I come to the conclusion that you no longer have any interruptions. Would you like to finish...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u20	Too bad, huh?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u21	Well, whatever you want. I can ask if anyone else has any interruptions for Mr Bishop, but I can also ask him if he would like to say something in conclusion after these interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u22	No, I would like to thank my fellow Members very much for their justified questions. That makes the point that I wanted to make just a little bit sharper, so I very much appreciate the interruptions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u23	Well, that's very nice. Then we come to Mrs Westerveld of GroenLinks for her input. Mrs Westerveld, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u24	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Since 24 February, Europe has looked different. Today exactly a month ago we woke up in a new, different Europe. In addition to the disastrous consequences for the people of Ukraine, this has, of course, also had an impact on international scientific cooperation. In the meantime, all activities with Russian and Belarusian knowledge institutions have ceased. This, of course, makes the debate we are having today on internationalisation and its importance very special. From this point on, I would also like to express my appreciation for our educational institutions, which are currently doing their utmost to support their Russian and Ukrainian students and researchers wherever possible and as much as possible. On both sides this is also very intense for these people who work at our universities. Mr. Chairman. This debate is also special because international student numbers have increased very rapidly in recent years, partly thanks to the excellent quality of our education and research. We look good on it, all over the world. But this is also due to the recruitment policies of many educational institutions. Universities have been almost victims of their own success in recent years, you might say. At the same time, I understand the dilemma that institutions now face. My group believes it is important that we take a good look at this and look at how we do it fairly and ensure that selection takes place in a good way, so that equality of opportunity and accessibility are not compromised. Mr. Chairman. Then there's the bill. The reason for this bill is an investigation by the Audit Service Empire in 2018. Due to changing geopolitical relations, there is a need to shape the presence abroad in the field of education and research in a more strategic way. Today, of course, that demand and need are more relevant than ever. This draft law establishes a number of tasks in the field of internationalisation of education. It was just as interesting to see how different groups could be in that. I found the questions that Mr Bishop asked very relevant, because that is, of course, at the heart of what we are discussing today: how far does the responsibility of this minister extend, not only in terms of the quality of research and education, but also in terms of internationalisation? Mr. Chairman. We have a number of questions, but I also read a rather critical input from the Council of State, which is not at all reassured in its opinion that the risks of state aid to Nuffic have been solved with this bill. That is a relevant point, because that is one of the reasons for this proposal. I saw that the government has amended the explanatory statement on this point, but I have to conclude that we still have questions, including with that amendment. The government often talks about continuity, but I am still not sufficiently clear as to why continuity is at risk at the moment, also because we have known Nuffic for so long and it is working to its full satisfaction. That is why I would like to know from the Minister what exactly changes this bill to stability and continuity. And why is it necessary? This is perhaps the most important question, because with only a legal anchoring of the tasks, without further justification, State aid risks have not been eliminated. Also, the justification for Nuffic's designation is still not sufficiently substantiated if you ask us. I would like to ask the Minister to what extent other parties have been considered to be able to carry out this task. I am not asking because I am dissatisfied with Nuffic, but because I think it is relevant to this proposal. Have there been any discussions with other organisations that might have been interested in carrying out this task? Which services of Nuffic have been divested and which are tendered? The Council of State is asking for this, too. I do not yet read the answer in the explanatory statement. Could the Minister perhaps send a more detailed account to the Chamber? Mr. Chairman. The bill also allows the Minister to appoint a legal person to inform the Dutch field of knowledge about EU policies in the fields of education, research and innovation. Mr Bishop has tabled an amendment to that effect. I am very curious to hear the Minister's response to that amendment. I also miss knowledge security in this list. For what is the relationship between Nuffic and the RVO, which includes the contact point on knowledge security? And how is the Dutch field of knowledge informed about, for example, China's policy in the fields of education, research and innovation? Which organisation is responsible for this and is this also legally anchored? Mr. Chairman. One of Nuffic's tasks is international mobility. Foreign experience during the study can do an enormous amount for the personal development of students: developing new skills in new environments, leaving friends around the world, learning from a different culture. These are all things that we actually give to all our young people, but unfortunately this is not for everyone. Research by Nuffic shows that students with parents who do not have a higher education diploma are least inclined to study abroad, although they would like to. The costs are the biggest obstacle. I saw that yesterday when I looked at the site WilWeg.nl, where the first block is immediately: how do I finance that? The fact that it is so prominent in the front of the site shows that students are looking for the answer to this question. The funding can thus also be a major obstacle for some of the students. The researchers advise, among other things, to make communication more small-scale. Are there any discussions on this with the educational institutions? Does the Minister also see reason to improve communication around scholarships, to really ensure that students know that it exists and that they can claim it? Mr. Chairman. Then there's another subject that does touch on this: the Neso offices. In the previous period, even before this minister was here, I asked a number of questions with the PvdA. Despite our motion to first carry out an evaluation of its functioning, the government has decided to cut down the Neso offices. Does the Minister also know about student mobility between the Netherlands and the ten Neso countries? Are the educational attachés, who have come instead of the offices, equally accessible to students? Is there going to be an evaluation of the attachés? Mr President, concluding. This is a point that may not make me popular, but that I am going to have to return to these debates more often. When I read Nuffic's annual report, I also read about the fees of directors and supervisors. In all honesty, the directors and supervisors of Nuffic remain well below the maximum that you can ask for top incomes under the Standards Act, but I am still afraid of the enormous amount of those amounts. I would also like to ask this Minister, a point that I often make in debates about our public sector, or the difference between what directors and supervisors get on the one hand and people in the workplace on the other. Is it justified for them not only to be able to use Nuffic in this type of organisation, but also in higher education, sometimes to earn thousands of euros from their supervisory tasks, while people in the workplace have to work hard to do so? I do not want to say that regulators do not do that and that they do not have a great deal of responsibility, but I think that these amounts are so far apart. I would like to ask the Minister whether he has any particular attention to this, or whether he also sees that this can widen the gap between the people in the workplace and the people in charge and supervision and whether he would like to discuss this with the sector. I know that the maximum of the norming law is higher and that a lot of directors and supervisors do not ask that, but I still think that gap is huge. I look forward to the Minister's response on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u25	I thank Mrs Westerveld for her input. In the meantime, I notice that we have received a school class in the public gallery. We have a debate on education, so a law that you may not deal with until later, but welcome! I would ask Mrs Van der Woude of the VVD Group to make her contribution. You have the floor, Mrs Van der Woude.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u26	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The VVD is a strong supporter of internationalisation, where it serves the Dutch interest. We want the Netherlands to take the lead in bringing in European funding for projects, such as programmes such as Europe Horizon 2020, to work mainly for the benefit of the Netherlands. We want that to happen. We want to attract research money to the Netherlands through our universities and colleges of applied sciences in addition to our own additional investments, which the VVD is extremely pleased with, to maximum strengthen our position internationally. At the same time, we want to offer our students opportunities to study abroad and take advantage of all the international knowledge available. And we want the students who come here to be fit to come here and add something, but also that there aren't too many. I shall come back to that briefly at the end of my speech. On this bill, both Nuffic and Neth-ER, I do not know exactly how to pronounce it, which is indirectly involved in this bill, for a long time now, by indicating knowledge, current events, support for graduation, grant award or advice on scholarships. Because they offer us national advantage in a competitive European environment, where everyone is fighting for research money and for influence on the European agenda, we find that useful, especially for vocational education, which often does not have the strategic FTEs that can deal with this issue. They want to make time for teaching. You shouldn't think that 30 different agencies are all going to think separately whether a university degree in Blacksburg, Virginia, for example, is just as good as that of TU Twente. So the VVD is okay with the minister having and taking a role here, especially now that what could be taken out has been tendered. So that what we have been doing for years is going to be poured into another formal relationship. The VVD understood the critical notes of the ARK and also those of the Council of State, but notes that they are largely addressed in the Government's response. However, I would like to ask the Minister, in line with Mrs Westerveld, to address the state aid risks mentioned. The answer is not quite clear to us yet. Perhaps you can reassure us there. I would like to go into more detail on system responsibility. I think that's a nice discussion. I hear the fear that it will be stretched further. Where's the border? That's a good discussion. The VVD thinks that OCW has left some direction in recent years. We hardly send on capacity and where we do it, we sometimes send against the trend. For example, we do not really have a field of education that connects to the labour market. Internationalisation is also such an aspect. Although we applaud it, we have lost the grip. In recent years, there has been no directing on how many international students we want and what kind of international students we want to have in which courses. How does this large influx of students fit our vision of the future, what we want for the Netherlands? The influx is out of control. The institutions do not want this to happen to a large extent either. They're long gone from recruiting and asking for help, but there's nothing they can do about it. There are no brake pads. The minister can give them the instruments. I have repeatedly stressed that we need to do this and that we really need to settle something before October before we lose another year. I would like to hear from the Minister today the latest state of these developments. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u27	Thank you, Mrs Van der Woude. I see Mrs Westerveld has an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u28	Yeah, about the influx of students. I also mentioned in my contribution that many educational institutions are under pressure because there are many Dutch students and many international students. Does Mrs Van der Woude agree with me that if we look at the containment of the influx, at least we should not be talking about financial resources and ensure that only students in the Netherlands will be able to study who have parents who make a lot of money?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u29	I agree with Mrs Westerveld that this should be open to everyone, but I do think it is very difficult to determine that. You can't run a global income policy. It just can't be. By the way, I often hear that people think that non-EEA students, such as those from China and India, are extremely rich because they pay very high institutional tuition fees. That's not true. Often four families have crooked to scrape the tuition fees together for these students. The pressure for them is enormous when they come here. That's exactly why I want us to be able to give them space when they come. I am talking about housing and a lecture hall in which there are also other nationalities than just 200 people from their own country, which we can already see happening at TU Delft. I therefore believe that we need to pursue a serious talent strategy, but it must be substantive and have to deal with where we should go as a country and how universities are profiling themselves. It shouldn't be pure numbers.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u30	I come to the conclusion that Mrs Westerveld is running away and therefore has no other interruptions. I'm looking at Mrs. Van der Woude. Anything else you'd like to say in conclusion?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u31	No, I'm here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u32	I would like to thank you very much and ask Mr De Hoop of the PvdA Group to come and do his contribution. Yeah, it's execution. The floor is yours, Mr. De Hoop.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u33	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Of course, I'd be happy to. The international dimension of higher education can no longer be ignored: Dutch students who "go on Erasmus" and broaden their horizons and international students who get to know the Netherlands and our beautiful higher education. International cooperation has become part of the structure of our science. It is important that this is carefully and properly designed. Mr. Chairman. Before I go to the bill, I want to take advantage of this moment, like GroenLinks, to ask for extra attention for the war in Ukraine. It is precisely in times of war that we must nurture knowledge diplomacy. At this time, the dissemination of knowledge and the neutral nature of research and science are of great value. International students also deserve cheerful, fine and safe education, whether they come from Russia or Ukraine and are already studying here or are being received by us in the near future. It's our job to give them a safe place and the guidance they deserve. An organisation like Nuffic looks at these needs of international students and draws up all kinds of programmes. Help and compensation are provided and play a crucial role in this dissemination of knowledge. This deserves appreciation and also fits the view of the Labour Party on knowledge diplomacy. Mr. Chairman. Then there's the bill. In 2018, the ADR investigated the way Nuffic carried out its tasks. At that time, the Internal Audit Service was critical and concluded that cooperation between the Ministry and Nuffic was not optimal. In essence, Nuffic had too much freedom, making it independent considerations that were not necessarily optimal for OCW. The aim of this proposal is to contribute to this and to anchor the legislative tasks. This is positive as far as the Labour Party is concerned, but there are also some objections and critical notes that need to be discussed today. Mr. Chairman. I'll start with Neth-ER. In his letter, the General Court points out that the task of Neth-ER, which is now legally anchored, namely that of providing information to members of the association, is not the only thing Neth-ER intends to do. It is also concerned with positioning a supporter of the European institutions and influencing European policies, i.e. lobbying. That task is not the responsibility of OCW, but is funded by the members of Neth-ER. What is the Minister's view of Neth-ER's independence? How can the task funded by OCW and the task financed by its members continue to exist side by side in a single association? How can these tasks remain separate? Then move on to Nuffic. Nuffic performs tasks as a diploma rating for foreign students. The Court points out that these tasks could be carried out by a market participant, but Nuffic receives subsidies for this. The Court of Auditors is critical of this and warns that this can be seen as inappropriate state aid. That has already been said by other parties. In the explanatory memorandum, the Minister addresses the question as to why the task of Diploma Evaluation would be invested at Nuffic. That's because Nuffic has been doing this for years. Does this actually solve the risk of undue State aid? Does the Minister consider that this issue will be resolved by the legal anchoring of Nuffic as the only party that can appreciate foreign diplomas? And what influence does the Minister think the establishment of the knowledge centre will have? What added value does this have for Dutch higher education? The Council of State is also critical of the way in which the risk of improper state aid is eliminated by legal anchoring. The RvS states that it is not necessarily sufficient for OCW Nufic to designate these tasks now, but that that designation should also be justified in terms of rules on free movement and procurement rules. Can the Minister comment on the Council of State's criticism that only the legal guarantee of the designation of tasks is not necessarily sufficient to mitigate the risk of undue State aid, but that the designation itself should be justified in terms of the rules on free movement and procurement rules? Furthermore, the Council of State considers that the proposal does not go far enough into how it relates to the Erasmus Programme and European Solidarity Corps Implementing Act, which also lays down tasks for Nuffic. There are also questions about Nuffic's control from OCW. This control is fragmented. That's what Mrs Westerveld said. It comes from different OCW policy directions. Can the Minister address the question of how to prevent a diffuse direction of Nuffic from different OCW policy directions leading to fragmentation and uncertainty? Mr. Chairman. Then the position of students. They indicate that the provision of information to international students in the Netherlands is sometimes still very diffuse and unclear. How does the Minister look at LSVb's demand to make Nuffic also the centralized information point for international students? One window with another website; I don't know. I'm curious to hear the Minister's response. It is of added value that there is an organisation that stimulates internationalisation aspects and perspectives in the MBO. In recent years, however, the government has cut down on services for the MBO. The current task package is just low compared to the 500,000 students in the MBO. What opportunities does the Minister see, also in the interest of the huge transition exercise, including in the area of digitalisation and sustainability, for the coming years to continue to provide adequate support here? The Minister indicated earlier that he wanted to work on a vision letter internationalisation in the MBO. In my view, it would be a good thing if this were to happen in the short term and if the renewed targets of both Neth-ER and Nuffic were to be taken into account. Can the Minister undertake to do so? Mr. Chairman. The final point is equality of opportunity. Studying abroad is an immensely valuable experience, which unfortunately is not for everyone. Nuffic figures show that young people with highly skilled, wealthy parents are 50% more likely to have an international experience than their peers with low socio-economic status. The Labour Party believes that everyone has the right to broaden his horizons. What is the Minister going to do to improve this equality of opportunity? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u34	I thank Mr De Hoop for his contribution. I notice there's been another class. You're very welcome. I also note that several speakers have spoken of 'Neth-ER' and 'Nuffic'. If you didn't know what those are, you'd think they were people with a special name. They're not. Neth-ER is the Netherlands house for Education and Research and Nuffic is the Dutch organisation for internationalisation. Am I saying it right? It is the Dutch organisation for internationalisation in education. So it's about your future, dear students. In the meantime, Mrs Van der Graaf of the Christian Union has come forward to make her contribution. I call Mrs Van der Graaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u35	Thank you, Madam President, for the floor. I agree with Mrs Westerveld's words. She talked about how our higher education is currently shaping the tensions arising from the war that is raging in Ukraine. This has implications for researchers, staff and students from our universities and colleges of applied sciences coming from Ukraine and Russia. The Christian Union has incredibly much appreciation for the way in which colleges and universities are currently doing so. We also know that their research and education contributes to a better world in which there is peace, respect and space for academic freedom. I think it is good that they get all the support they need for that. That's what I'm saying to this minister. Mr. Chairman. Today we are talking about the Law on Internationalisation Education. It sounds like a technical law, but there's just a lot around it. This debate also makes that clear. On the one hand, the aim is to continue and ensure tasks related to internationalisation. The aim is also to ensure that the provision of information to the knowledge field is legally secured by providing for a legitimate and future-proof form of financing. It is also part of a wider range of measures to improve the steering and subsidy relationship of the Ministry of Education and Science with Nuffic. The reason for this is in the 2018 investigation by the Audit Service Rijk about the steering relationship between the Ministry of OCW and Nuffic. In that study, the ADR noted inter alia that there was fragmentation of tasks and differences in Nuffic's direction from the different policy directions within the Ministry of Education and Science. This report showed that the Ministry of OCW has insufficient control over the tasks of the organisation Nuffic. I'm just gonna say it at home. The key question to the Minister is: is this bill really going to improve? Have the risks of State aid been sufficiently eliminated? In other words, do we really have legitimate funding with this? I'd like a response from the Minister to this. Mr. Chairman. My group welcomes the fact that the Ministry has taken the gauntlet to improve the relationship with Nuffic in connection with the audit service's investigation. My group, too, appreciates the work that Nuffic has been doing for decades. We think it's important work. We also think it is important that this should be done in a good way. Mr. Chairman. I would like to take up one aspect of the evaluation of the ADR. The ADR recommended an external evaluation of the organisation Nuffic, which examines the functioning and contribution to the objectives of OCW of Nufic. This recommendation has not been accepted, as we see in the bill. I ask the Minister why it has not been taken over. I am not just asking, but I am also tabling an amendment together with my colleague, Mr Van der Woude, to take care of it. Even with this amendment, Nuffic remains fragmentedly organised. For example, Nuffic is partly an independent administrative body, for example, where it affects the Erasmus+ programme, but this bill also assigns to Nuffic a legal entity with a legal function, with the possibility of giving advice on diploma evaluation. Nuffic receives its subsidies from OCW, from Foreign Affairs and from the European Commission. In the meantime, there's a lot of money involved. The last annual report shows that the sum involved is almost 40 million, rounded up. We therefore think it would be very wise to review Nuffic on a regular basis externally, as is the case with other players in the field of knowledge; I think the Minister knows this better than anyone else. The law itself is evaluated after five years, but this is not the same as regular periodic evaluation of publicly funded knowledge institutions. The evaluation could, for example, be carried out by an independent ad hoc committee set up for this purpose. We saw that at NWO, the Rinnooy Kan committee. We have therefore tabled an amendment to that effect. Similarly, we fully endorse the recommendation made by the ADR to have Nuffic as a whole, including as an organisation, evaluated externally. I am very curious about the Minister's response to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u36	We all are. In the meantime, you have an interruption by Mrs Van der Laan.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u37	I agree with Mrs Van der Graaf that we need to evaluate. This also happens in the case of grants. I have an explanatory question to the authors of the amendment. In your view, is the current control of the granting of subsidies insufficient for the tasks that Nuffic carries out?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u38	Yes. This was a recommendation of the National Audit Service, which also noted this. The ADR said it's good to do this. I wonder why this has not been incorporated into the bill, because that was a very good opportunity to settle this. It seems very good to us. We're also doing this at NWO and the Academy. This is partly set up by the same law and partly by other laws. It seems very obvious to us, precisely because it is such a complicated playing field. There's just a lot of money in it. Then we also wonder a little bit: is it really at this time to do the evaluation all by ourselves? Isn't it much wiser and wiser to just have it done externally, periodically? You really don't have to do it every year, but with a fixed period. The amendment leaves a great deal of room for the Minister to choose the moment at which you do so, for example whether you are also in line with the periodic evaluation of the Erasmus programme, which we could very well imagine. But the purpose of the amendment is to allow the evaluation to take place externally. That seems to us to be very sensible and appropriate to the times.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u39	Mrs. Van der Laan? No, no interruption? That was a clear answer to the interruption. You said outside the microphone that it was long, but that doesn't matter at all, because you answered the question. We're going to the last speaker. That's Mrs. Van der Laan of D66. Mrs Van der Laan, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u40	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I too would like to express my thanks and appreciation to our institutions for their efforts to make it a little better for the students, PhD students and so on from Ukraine and Russia. It's very important that they do that. Mr. Chairman. A few weeks ago, we conducted the Committee debate on Knowledge Security and Internationalisation. I then talked about the three V's that are central to me: freedom, security and solidarity. It is about freedom that everyone is therefore the future generation, which is just running away! It is very important that we have the opportunity to study abroad, the security that we are aware of the risks of working with non-free countries, and the commitment that we have to look into the world with an open mind and take the opportunities for international cooperation. Mr Bishop asked a rhetorical question; I will limit my contribution today to the present legislative proposal. The reason for this legislative proposal is the risk of State aid in the grants for Nuffic and Neth-ER. Part of the solution was found in the bill. Nuffic and Neth-ER are given a legal task, among other things, to inform the Dutch field well and to appreciate diplomas. The Council of State states in its opinion that the legislative proposal may not be sufficient to exclude State aid risks from Nuffic. I ask the Minister if he can give another reflection on this. The amendment of the SGP and the CDA proposes to delete the legal task of Neth-ER, while Neth-ER is an essential link between policy makers in Brussels and the field in the Netherlands. Is it true that OCW is still at risk of breaching State aid rules in the SGP and CDA amendment? And should this amendment be adopted, what does it do with the position of the Dutch field in relation to the policy makers in Brussels? Another solution has been found for the Nufic offices abroad, the Neso offices. If I understand correctly, the offices are being built and the cabinet uses the released budget for education and science attachés at the embassies. I have a few questions about this. What about attracting education and science attachés? In which countries are they now active? Are they, like the diplomats for example, returning to the Netherlands at the same time each year? Is it possible for us as a room to talk to them as well? That was my contribution, Mr. Chairman. I look forward to the Minister's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u41	I would like to thank Mrs Van der Laan for her contribution. We are all looking forward to the Minister's reply. In order to do this properly, the Minister asked to take 15 minutes to do so. I therefore propose that I suspend the sitting for 15 minutes. Which means, to be exact, we'll meet back here at 11:21.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u42	I'll reopen the meeting while the MPs walk in. I see that the Minister for Education, Culture and Science, Mr Dijkgraaf, is ready to answer the questions. I do not know whether he wants to start by telling us what his approach is, by MP or by different subjects, so that Members of Parliament know when they may have to be ready for an interruption if they are dissatisfied with the response. I see that everyone has arrived in the meantime, so I give the floor to the Minister, Mr Dijkgraaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u43	Thank you, Madam President. It is a great pleasure to talk to your Chamber here about, actually very broad, internationalisation in the field of knowledge. Let me start by echoing some of the comments that have been made about how important this is for the Dutch field of knowledge. I think that the role of the Netherlands in the world in the field of research and education is a very prominent one. We really are a hub in that big network. Our researchers, teachers and students know how to connect around the world. That is why this is such an important subject. This international role is only growing, especially within Europe. I would also like to come back to a number of comments that have been made about Ukraine, because it is a matter of pressing our noses on the actual situation. I sincerely sympathise with the students and teachers from Ukraine and from Russia and Belarus who are here in the Netherlands, their difficult situation. Great appreciation also for the educational institutions that receive them with a lot of goodwill and activities. We have made available from my ministry an amount of EUR 1 million to help them in this. This will undoubtedly be an even greater crisis. It really is with pain in my heart that I have called on the educational institutions to break formal ties with Belarus and Russia. I have to say that's something you actually want to do last. Especially in the world of science and education, you want to keep those contacts. But I must also say that, for example, the statement made by the joint Russian rectors in support of the regime has been a very reprehensible statement there. It has shown us that we need to make a big difference between contacts with institutions in this case and with individual researchers and students. I also know that a lot of Russian scientists and students are currently making great objections to what is happening there, free spirits that we want to support and with which we want to strengthen ties, and that some are trying to flee the country at risk for their own lives. This shows us how important the issue of internationalisation is. We are talking here about the report, actually a rather technical point, of the Audit Service, which looked at the direction and funding of two organisations that both play an important role in internationalisation: Nufic, mainly aimed at the exchange of international students, and Neth-ER, our contact person in Brussels with the European Union. These comments from the ADR have led us to opt for a partly different way of financing, whereby certain tasks have been tendered out and cut down on parts as well. The final part of this review, which has taken a long time, is this legislative proposal, which we are trying to secure legally some of the tasks. In my view, these tasks are of public interest because of the direct relationship with the accessibility, the equality of opportunities and the quality of our education and research. This also forms an important part of the rethinking of the steering and subsidy relationship. You just asked me how I want to conduct the debate. I'd like to talk to you about Nuffic first and then Neth-ER, starting with Nuffic. Nuffic has been a relevant player for many years when it comes to education and internationalisation. I must say that I immediately endorse the comments made by many of you. Mrs Van der Woude may have spoken most strongly about it. We are all in favour of internationalisation, but we do want to look at it strategically. That is why it is important that we continue to talk about this. I hope to return to you soon with a letter. You know that the Language and Accessibility Act, which has been forwarded by your Chamber to the Upper Chamber, is still with me for further consideration. I hope to be able to tell you more about this soon, in the coming weeks, and I hope that we will be able to discuss it further. I'd like to zoom in on Nuffic right now. Nuffic performs important and necessary public tasks. It has already been said that it has an important advisory role in the appreciation of diplomas obtained abroad. This is necessary in order to understand which students we want or do not want to give access to higher education here. They are an expert in this field and act as such at international level under the Lisbon Convention on Recognition. As a centre of knowledge and expertise, they play an indispensable role in the provision of information to students and educational institutions. They also make it possible for students to do research or study abroad using a scholarship. There were a number of questions, among others from Mrs Westerveld, Mr De Hoop and Mrs Van der Laan, about the comments of the Council of State on state aid. Are they enough now? First of all, we have partially offset the State aid risks by the fact that some of Nuffic's existing market activities have now been tendered. That was about service and training. There was also criticism of the research part of Nufic. We have indicated that we will also be contracting that. So it no longer exclusively goes to Nuffic. The only legal task we are discussing today and which in our view is of great social importance for Dutch higher education is to monitor quality and accessibility. As we have said before, this requires stability and continuity. The elements we see in the new establishment of Nufic are: educational comparison, diploma evaluation and advice on the issue of grants. We have enough confidence that this has eliminated the risk of State aid to Nuffic and that we have a stable anchoring of these activities. Mrs Westerveld and Mr De Hoop asked about inclusiveness and diversity. I very much agree that we must ensure that the internationalisation of education benefits all students, especially Dutch students who want to go abroad. For some students it is more self-evident in their immediate environment to do so. You can see that they often use that kind of scholarship. I know that Nuffic is absolutely aware of that. They actively promote inclusiveness in different ways, for example by broadening and deepening the palette of supply. They look not only at international exchanges, but also at internationalisation at home through virtual international cooperation, international classrooms and other easily accessible forms. It's my experience that in student groups that aren't really familiar with it, you first have to take a smaller step, instead of going directly abroad for a longer period of time. In communication, Nuffic tries to focus specifically on reaching the target group for which it is less self-evident to participate in international exchanges, for example first generation students and students with a migration background. The educational materials and toolkits they make also try to make that more accessible. I think that is an important point. I will certainly continue to encourage them to do so, because it is very important that internationalisation is also an inclusive activity. In the other leg of Nufic, the Erasmus+ programme, which is therefore carried out by the Erasmus+ National Agency, we have separated the various aspects of Nufic, because we were asked to do so, there is also a top-up grant for students with low-skilled or less-earning parents. Erasmus therefore also pays attention to this. Nuffic and knowledge security. Mrs Westerveld asked for that. Let me put it this way: I've already been talking to you. Knowledge security is an area high on my agenda. Unfortunately, it is a negative aspect of the growing internationalisation of science and research. We need to be alert about that. It's very important. We have taken a few good steps and we have invested them well. There is a state-wide point of contact where institutions can check in. There's a manual. We are also discussing the possible implementation of the screening of foreign visitors. I think that's well invested in the government. I do not see Nuffic as the most obvious person for that; that is something that the knowledge there lacks. I also receive international compliments for the way in which the Netherlands is handling this, especially for the fact that we are doing it in a bundled way, through that state-wide window. So it's well secured. I don't really see a role for Nuffic there. They also asked about the dismantling of the Neso offices. It runs until 2023. These are specific countries. In those countries we are working on the network of education and science attachés. The first three attachés have already started. Mrs Van der Laan asked for that too. Let me remind you that they started in China, the United Kingdom and Germany. Those three are already here. The education and science attachés will soon start in France and the United States. I was at the embassy in Washington last week. People are busy preparing there. I think we can make a quick announcement about that too. Later this year will be recruited for posts in South Korea and South Africa. Indonesia will also be added to that postal network in 2023. Moreover, I believe that these attachés are a very good way of dealing with the exchange of knowledge with these countries in a much more strategic way. The same applies to the suggestion of the homecoming day. I think they're coming to the Netherlands soon. It's an interesting suggestion to have a conversation with your room as well. I think that's very important. I also look forward to having a conversation with these attachés myself. So we're gonna organize those return days. Of course, we will involve as many stakeholders as possible. Thank you for the invitation to include Members of Parliament. I think we should find a good rhythm for that, because they are actually also the ambassadors of the Netherlands as a knowledge country. I've already talked about knowledge security. Mrs Westerveld also asked whether there was really any consideration as to whether there were any other parties that could carry out this task. We certainly did. That just didn't turn out to be the case. To be honest, I think that might also be a brief summary of today's debate. We are talking about two organisations that have really shown in the past to be able to carry out these tasks very well. We're proud to have that kind of organization in our house. As I said, the Netherlands is doing very well in terms of internationalisation. It's a bit of a chicken egg issue: that's why we have organisations like this, but these organisations help us to get good at it. I wouldn't want to disturb them either. The reason we are having this debate today is, above all, that there are technical reasons for changing it. Perhaps that is also a growing understanding of how important internationalisation is, and therefore the legal guarantee. But in the case of Nuffic we felt that there are indeed no other organisations that can deal with this task. I think this brings me to the end of my Nuffic questions. Perhaps a final comment on the amendment tabled by the VVD and the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u44	Before you do that, I think Mrs Westerveld has another interruption to what you said before. Indeed, I would appreciate it if the questions and comments of Mr Bishop, the one who broke the law, would be dealt with afterwards, so as to clarify the reflections.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u45	Okay. Then I will hold off on the amendment. That's good.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u46	Of course, that depends, but I think Mr Bishop is very curious. First Mrs Westerveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u47	I have a question about knowledge security. The minister said he was complimented. He also indicated that he doesn't think that this task can best be with Nuffic. I'd be happy to follow him in that. But it is true that other ministries, such as the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, also indicate that we may be too lax about it. Last week I read an article on ScienceGuide in which it said that knowledge security when we talk about China is actually only very briefly on the retina of OCW. I therefore find these reactions somewhat contradictory to what the Minister has just said. Maybe he'll be able to respond briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u48	Thank you for this question. I think both signals are true. I think it's growing insight, in the Netherlands, but also in the rest of the world. We are at the forefront, however, in the sense that we have a concerted approach to this. In this sense, the good situation in the Netherlands is that the government has a central role to play. As a government, we can pull multiple strings. For example, most institutions are publicly funded. This is sometimes much more complicated in other countries. We have this concerted approach. To be honest, I do not know many other countries where such a concerted approach exists. It is a combination with growing alertness. That's a learning process for the whole world. If we look at what we thought about this ten years ago, we can see that we are now thinking completely differently. But I see that as a narrow path, on which there are two ditchs. One is: very naive opening up everything. Then we quickly lost our advanced position as a knowledge country. At the same time, we are so dependent on the international exchange of knowledge that the oxygen disappears when we lock everything up. Almost all of our publications are international publications. The Netherlands is a kind of world champion of international cooperation. That path is perhaps even thinner for us than for other countries. But the compliments I get from my international colleagues are certainly about our central approach and the fact that we have brought the government together in it. That is certainly not the practice in other countries. But if you say "we still have a lot to go" I think: yes, and this world is changing. There are a number of countries we are afraid of. Russia has always been in the top three. There we are extra alert these days. We're going to have that conversation more often in the next few years. It is, after all, a kind of arms race where there are more threats, we need to defend ourselves better and we also need to get more knowledge of them. Like I said, I was visiting Washington last week. There we are absolutely very alert to these matters. I have spoken with my colleagues, both from the Ministry of Education and Foreign Affairs, the National Security Council and think tanks. There I also got the signal: "Be alert. But what a good thing that you can even consider such a national approach in the Netherlands. This is much harder to achieve in other countries." This is much more difficult to achieve in other countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u49	I thank the Minister for that reply. My intention was to ensure that we also have enough time for the first amendment, the amendment in part No. 10 by Mr Van der Molen and Mr Bisschop, among others. But I think your approach is to deal with Nuffic first and with that the amendment to item No. 11, on second thought, wasn't such a bad one at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u50	I have a few other comments to make on Nuffic. I'm going through it fast. First of all, I would like to address Mrs Westerveld's question about the remuneration of supervisors and directors. Yeah, I'm paying attention to that. Mrs Westerveld has already indicated that that reward is laid down in the Top Income Standards Act. That is absolutely something that has our attention. There were also questions, among others from Mrs Van der Graaf, about the fact that the ADR found that there was some kind of fragmentation of tasks in the direction, including from OCW management. It is good to know that with this new arrangement there is a central point of contact within my ministry, namely the so-called account holder, who is aware of all the administrative, financial and legal relationships we are going to have with Nuffic. As Minister of OCW, I, of course, also exercise external control of the effective and effective performance of that legal task under the Compatibility Act. The law also includes all the instruments to intervene in the event of Nuffic's negligence and neglect of a job. So there are enough handles and strings to have proper supervision of that. I go on to the amendment, which calls for a five-year evaluation. Unfortunately, I must advise against this amendment, not because I do not agree with its content, but because I find it very important that Nuffic should be reviewed periodically, but because I have difficulty with this amendment in the technical sense. It calls for the entire Nuffic foundation to be evaluated. My argument is based on the breakdown, because in addition to the legal task we are talking about here, it is also the National Agency for Erasmus+ and it is also a private organisation, which has private activities in addition to these tasks. So I have a problem with the broad wording, because that is not really my concern. I'm just gonna go in part. A second point is that the amendment says that it must be done within five years and then every five years at the latest. Let us be honest: Erasmus+ goes in terms of the European Framework Programmes. They have a certain rhythm. I can't predict what that rhythm is going to be. Sometimes that's five years, sometimes six years, et cetera. So I can see right away that that might get out of hand. If you send me a motion on this, I think I'll give you a little more space, because then I can take the space I would like to take. I also think it is very nice that the explanatory statement states: take that space in time to join the European evaluation. We actually want to make life easier and not harder. I think that is the only way we can carry out an integrated evaluation. If I had a motion, I could. I fully agree, of course, that organisations such as these will benefit greatly from a periodic external evaluation, because strange eyes can force.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u51	Your point is clear. Let's see if Mrs. Van der Graaf agrees.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u52	I think we've come a long way from each other when we say: we both want this arranged. So the question is, how is it best to do that? There is a Standard Evaluation Protocol, with which the evaluation at NWO and KNAW takes place every six years. If the Minister's objection is focused mainly on the point that it should be done every five years, I think we can get out. I can make it six years. I can even get it out of the legal text itself to give that space to the Minister, because the purpose of the amendment is to carry out the external evaluation periodically. In doing so, I would like to leave room for the Minister to see what the appropriate time is. The first point he makes is: I don't go over everything, because there's also a private branch on it. But the amendment is very much in line with the recommendation made by the Audit Service to evaluate the functioning of the Nuffic organisation, and also to examine Nuffic's contribution to OCW's objectives. I would also like to focus this amendment on the public tasks they carry out as Zbo. In this law they are brought under the Minister as a legal entity. Both therefore view the public tasks. So I think we should be able to find each other in that. If I have to go through the technicalities of the amendment, I am absolutely prepared to do so, but I would like to make it quite clear that we agree today that it is a good thing that periodic evaluations are to be carried out. We do see added value, given the discussion and the background, in order to regulate this now by law.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u53	Before the Minister responds, it is equally important for me to hear from Mrs Van der Graaf whether she wishes to amend her amendment or table a motion. Then we'll know.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u54	I have just said that I am prepared to look at an adjustment of the amendment. That's what I just said. I see added value in regulating it by law, but I think we can meet on the technical points, because I think we understand each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u55	I have already indicated that on the one hand I want to take a little more room for manoeuvre here, because I have to fit in with the European evaluation, but I also do not want to take too much room for manoeuvre by stepping outside my own competence. I am not a lawyer myself, but I think it is important that we sharpen it so sharply that we do it wide enough but not too wide, so that I am not going to make a legal statement here about tasks that are not covered by those statutory tasks. But I have a feeling that we can find the middle ground in this. On my side, therefore, there is every willingness to sharpen this text. In fact, we agree with the spirit of the proposal, namely that this organisation, if it is on the public side, even though it would of course be nice to take that private side directly with it, is very much in the interest of periodic external evaluation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u56	Yeah, that's what we think. The Minister said something about: you are now arranging an evaluation that extends slightly beyond what is specifically contained in this amending law. Yeah, it is, but it's time to fix it and it can. And that's how I think we understand each other. Then we will leave it with an amendment that is good to switch between us, but then we will meet and discuss the way in which we can shape it properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u57	I think that's very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u58	In this form I can then give it judgment Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u59	That's very nice.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u60	As chairman, I am of course also entirely happy when people say several times that they will find each other and find each other. I understand that Mrs Van der Graaf is therefore going to make a revised proposal. I saw that Mr De Hoop has a question, and so does Mrs Westerveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u61	As the Minister moved on to the amendments, I assume that the Nuffic block was now ready for the Minister. I asked another question about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u62	That's very good. I'm gonna go check it out. That's the case, isn't it, Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u63	If there are any questions about Nuffic, I'd like to hear them now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u64	Yes. Do you have a question about Nuffic, Mr. De Hoop?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u65	Or can you remind me of questions I forgot to answer?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u66	Let's see if that's the case. Mr. De Hoop.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u67	Then I'm in the right place right now. I have also explicitly called for attention to be paid to the MBO, including with regard to Nuffic. I missed the answer, because you can see that the cabinet has cut down on that service for the MBO. That is why I asked, on behalf of the Labour Party, what possibilities the Minister sees, also in the interest of the transition, in order to give adequate support to internationalisation in the MBO over the coming years. In the previous debate on the Language and Accessibility Act, I also asked for a vision letter on internationalisation of the MBO. That's what you promised at the time. I was just asking whether you could include the renewed tasks of Neth-ER and Nuffic. I am therefore happy to receive an answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u68	I think this is an important point. This applies not only to Nufic, but to Neth-ER as well: the MBO also has a very important international task. This also has to do with your point of access to this international exchange. So I would like to say that, even if we talk more about internationalisation, we will take the MBO with us and I will do everything I can to bring the interests of MBO students to the attention of Nuffic.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u69	I note that this is a commitment to Mr De Hoop. I see Mrs Westerveld has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u70	Yeah, I have a question about the last point I made. It's about the remuneration of directors and supervisors. The Minister got over that rather quickly by saying: that has our attention. My point is that in recent years it has had far too little attention. Perhaps I can give a very concrete example: when I read Nuffic's annual report, I read that the driver can claim up to two tonnes according to the Top Income Standards Act. Again, the driver doesn't. This organization therefore adheres neatly to it and is well below the limits of the norming top incomes Act. Supervisors can claim €20,000 per year. These supervisors do not do that, but when I read the annual report, I also see that a lot of meetings are online. My point is that I think that these legal limits are far too high for administrators and supervisors of public organisations, educational organisations in this case. I would like a very clear commitment from the Minister that he will talk to the sector and see if the ceilings under the Standards Act are not far too broad. Maybe he can even make his own arrangements with the sector. I understand that the subject of this debate transcends somewhat, so I am fine to be informed about it at a later date, but I would very much like the government to take a good look at the remuneration of supervisors and directors over this period, and whether they are still of this age.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u71	I would like to thank Mrs Westerveld for saying that she was aware that she made a point of her own, to which every Member of Parliament has the right. But since we have to deal with this law and an amendment carefully, I would ask the Minister to give a short answer and, if necessary, to return to it at a later date.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u72	I think it is an important point from Mrs Westerveld. To be honest, I have to focus more on that myself. We have frameworks and we have the practice. I just need to see what exactly are the sentiments that live around it. To be honest, it is a little too early for me to say something about this now, but it is certainly a subject that I would like to discuss further with you in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u73	Then it is a firm undertaking that the Minister will go further and will certainly come back to it. I suggest that we move on to the next point.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u74	Yes, Mr. Chairman, I'd like to talk to you about Neth-ER now. This organisation has long defended the interests of the Dutch field of knowledge in Europe and also informs the Dutch field of knowledge. A number of key numbers have already been mentioned by Mr Bishop, in terms of headlines. One thing we see is that the Netherlands is exceptionally successful in joining the various European programmes. Every year, Europe becomes more important for the Dutch field of knowledge. That is not just about universities, by the way. The previous framework programme has received some 5.5 billion euros from Dutch institutions. That's disproportionate. This has to do with our international position and the competition we have internally in the Netherlands, which makes us very well positioned in these European programmes. This also applies, for example, to our MBOs. We have vocal centres in Europe and the European Alliance of Universities. The Netherlands was there very early. My experience is that we're doing very well. Are we doing this because we have Neth-ER in Brussels, or do we have Neth-ER in Brussels because we're doing so well? I think and-and. In my experience, the Dutch knowledge institutions have often been informed early and have been well oriented. Before a window opens, they're already there. I therefore see this as a very important task. Of course, it is important for many domains in the Netherlands to orient themselves in the right way vis-à-vis Brussels. This is particularly important for the field of knowledge. It is large sums and an important factor. As I said, we are absolutely superinternationally oriented in the field of knowledge. Europe is growing and growing. The flow of resources from Europe is becoming increasingly an important element in the functioning of our Dutch knowledge institutions. It therefore fits in my view to take the next step at some point and give certain constructions a legal anchoring. You're not gonna do that soon. I understand very well that the bar is high. That bar's high, too. We can't do that all the time. The government needs to be modest. But sometimes you have to take a step forward, a small step forward. I think this is the moment, in a domain that is really critical for the Netherlands. Again, since 2006, Neth-ER has. It is extremely important for the Dutch field of knowledge. As I indicated, the ADR pointed out that we were running a State aid risk. This finding led to this procedure. We have concluded that the current construction is risky. That is why we have undertaken a complete review of the subsidy and have come up with this scheme. We've been thinking about that for quite some time. In short, this is the only realistic solution we saw. That is why we think it is justified to take this step now. We don't do that lightly. This construction ensures that Neth-ER continues to play that important role for the Dutch field of knowledge, due to its stricter accountability system, including through the Compatability Act. There are several instruments. I believe that it will in all respects enhance the continuity and consistency of information provision. That's not nice to have, that's need to have. In doing so, I am trying to point out that there is an important task. Mr Bishop's question was also how far the system of responsibility I have for the Dutch knowledge system extends. I feel that this European dimension is a very important one, which is going to play a more and more prominent role there. The knowledge field as set out in the legislative proposal, with institutions that all have a public role, including special universities, is publicly supported. They also have a public task. The laws therefore lay down the framework conditions within which these educational institutions exercise their legal function. I have said several times that the positioning of the Dutch field of knowledge within Europe is of great importance to us. I think the time has really come to say that the way we position ourselves within the domain of knowledge, within the OCW domain, and relate to Brussels, is an integral part of our system. I can't help thinking about that anymore. That's why this is a good time. Mr Bishop asked for a number of other examples. Why, for example, did we include this legal task in the choice of study? That was because otherwise we cannot deal with the personal data of students. So that was another technical reason. You also talked about the role of landmarks. As far as I am concerned, it is well-defined in the objective of the Language Union, which is enshrined in the treaty that we have concluded, to be precise, in Article 3 (d). With this, the Language Union also finances the International Association for Neerlandistiek. I believe that this is enough at the moment. So it's a specific consideration every time. The Language Union, a powerful instrument, and often technical reasons why we should take that step. I also feel that with this construction the risk of state aid, and thus the instability possibly for Neth-ER in its crucial role, has been removed. Mr Bishop asked why we cannot simply stop this subsidy. I think that has really undesirable consequences. As I said, it is a relatively small but nevertheless substantial amount of €600,000 a year, which allows us to steer and maximize an enormous amount of money with this small flow of money. I would find it very undesirable to have a well-functioning organisation that has allowed us to grow in Europe to actually pull the plug. So our main concern is to continue this but to eliminate those State aid risks. That's the main argument why I'm standing here with this bill. Can't these knowledge institutions do that themselves? I think we should be very careful with that; they have all kinds of different positions. We think very quickly: oh, those big universities. It has already been said that the MBO institutions and colleges are also an important part of this. There are great differences between how one is able to relate to Brussels. I think that pooling of powers, which is one of the things we are very good at in the Netherlands, is a good point to show in Brussels. So I am also less concerned that this is a precedent. It is actually a good thing that we are having this debate. I told you, the bar's high. I think in this case we have a case that makes us jump over that bar. It is a major and growing importance of the European Union for the framework programmes and all the subsidies that are taking place there, which will undoubtedly increase in the field of knowledge in the coming years. In fact, we are also committed to this within Europe, so to steer much more on the content with knowledge and innovation as important areas. It would be a crazy retreating move to say now that we do not need to be properly informed about this in Brussels. Then the separation of tasks. Mr Bishop said that there are all kinds of terms in the concept statutes of the association. Maybe that's the complicated part about this construction. The association has two tasks: on the one hand the knowledge information task and the legal task, and on the other hand the private lobbying activities, i.e. trying to influence the European Union by the institution. The terms you saw in the statutes were, of course, very clear about the second part: the proactive attitude and the ambitions. We really need to separate them from the public task that is also mentioned in the draft statute. The financial flows and also the substantive reports will have to be separated. Mr De Hoop asked how I arranged it. I myself believe that we can guarantee this with a number of elements. The accountability must be segmented. The statutes explicitly state that the contributions of the Dutch government may only be devoted to the legal task. There is a grant decision and there will be an designation decision. The grant decision also explicitly states that if the activities are not completed, the grant can be stopped. This will prevent these two tasks from becoming intertwined. In the end, there is another letter about this legal task. Every two years, there will also be a framework letter for internationalisation. That's a whole list of measures that I can guarantee the public service. Sure, it has a certain uncomfortableness. That may apply to both constructions. That is why I understand the questions, but we have thought a long time about this and we believe that this is the best solution. Then I come to Mrs Van der Laan's question. How does it go if we adopt the amendment? Are we still at risk from the State aid rule? I think the answer's just yes. For that we have this discussion and for that we have rigged the whole construction. So there's that risk. The alternative would be to just stop the grant, but I don't think any of us want it. Then we are really going to take a step back in a relationship that is growing and strengthening and that is very beneficial to us. I would find that very undesirable. I honestly believe that we are doing relatively well in the way we relate to Brussels in the field of knowledge, but that we are also doing relatively well in how we present ourselves and how we inform the national field of knowledge. There too I often get jealous glances from other countries. The Netherlands is doing just fine. I come back to the amendment tabled by Mr Bishop and Mr Van der Molen. I don't recommend the amendment. I fully agree with Mr Bisschop and Mr Van der Molen that we must be cautious in the allocation of legal tasks and that there must also be a clear definition. However, I believe that in this case an appropriate response has been given to these concerns and that this legal task fits in with the public interest. The public interest is a fact for me. I believe that information on the field of knowledge on the European Union's policies in the fields of education, research and innovation is vital for us, not only for higher education but also very strongly for secondary vocational education and in the broader sense the knowledge-based economy. I feel that this is a task that needs to be invested in an organization that has a high degree of involvement. The organization must also have a track record and it has Neth-ER. Finally, in dissuading the amendment, I wanted to end my response to the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u75	I thank the Minister for his answers. I'm not gonna finish yet. I would, of course, also like to give Mrs Westerveld the floor. In legal proceedings, of course, there are MPs who criticize a law, who want to question a law or who want to table amendments. In this case, Mr Bisschop and Mr Van der Molen wish to do so. Mr Bishop will be able to say a few things in his second term. I would like to ask him, in the meantime, whether he would perhaps want an interruption in response to this answer to his many questions. I do not want to miss Mrs Westerveld, but for the sake of the debate I now give Mr Bishop the opportunity to interrupt, so that he can make his speech in conclusion in his second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u76	This is a remarkable moment: a chairman invites a Member of Parliament to intervene. Usually it's the MPs standing in line to interrupt. I appreciate this very much. I thought I would give my reflections on the answer in the second term. This shortens my second term. In any case, I would like to thank the Minister for his careful response. I am not convinced by the argument: there is a risk of state aid, so we have to regulate it legally; we declare it public interest and then that risk of state aid is no longer blamed. I do not follow that reasoning. The risk of State aid being blamed will then remain real over the market. I see in this bill too much of a purpose to frame state law. I ask the Minister why this social line, which has been so successful here so far, poses a greater risk to the accusation of state aid than this route.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u77	I think the argument is as follows. We give a grant to an organisation to inform the Dutch knowledge field. If we do this exclusively with Neth-ER, we actually have a subsidy flow without having any influence on it. That is the state aid argument. There are five criteria, I understand, to which all five must comply. In-house checks were carried out on all five of them. When we establish it legally, it is simply a legal task and there is no longer any state aid. Then we simply support a legal task, as we do with a lot of other organisations. That's how the risk went down. We have declared it a legal task. Again, I'm not a lawyer myself, but as far as I can see as a physicist, that seems to me to be a pretty clear argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u78	That's an interesting way of thinking about making legal statements as a physicist. The same applies here in Parliament. I am looking at Mr Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u79	A brief reaction. So the reasoning is: if we, as a government, declare that this is public interest and we regulate it legally, then nothing else changes, but there is no risk of state aid anymore. That seems to me to be a remarkable argument. Let me just leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u80	I thank Mr Bishop. I'm looking at Mrs Westerveld for her interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u81	On the contrary, I was pleased with the Minister's last reply, because I was concerned about state aid. The Council of State is, of course, very critical of this. My question concerns Mr Bishop's amendment. That might be a bit of a crazy figure. I asked a number of questions to Mr Bishop, but I also have a question to the Minister about that amendment. The Minister actually advises it by stating that we must invest the tasks legally here, because they are in the public interest. Now there are more things in the social interest that we do not all lay down in the law. I would like to ask whether, in addition to this point, there are other arguments against Mr Bishop's amendment. On this point alone, I do not find it very convincing. Not everything that is good for the country, or in this case for higher education, we lay down exactly in the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u82	Thank you for this question. I have indicated that we must set the bar for this construction high. I think that since 2006, when we opened Neth-ER, we can see that Europe's importance as a partner for the Dutch knowledge field has increased enormously over the past sixteen years. We can measure that in all kinds of ways. I believe that this is a small 6,000 projects in the previous framework programme. At every educational institution where you are going to talk, you will find that people are now talking much more about Europe than, for example, ten years ago. I think that's some kind of material argument. We want to ensure that we have adequate knowledge within the Netherlands about what is going to happen in Europe and what is going to happen now and how we can connect to it. In my view, that anchors the position of an institution like Neth-ER, a centralized point. This can be combined with the state aid analysis that has been done, which says that it is suddenly becoming vulnerable. We are proud that we are doing this task together. It's actually that combination. You're actually saying that not everything that's vulnerable should be held up. And you say, not everything we can do, we have to do. I feel that these two arguments come together nicely here. So we see a growing importance. It's very easy to go through that line in the future. At the same time, we suddenly find that this construction is unstable. Maybe that's to our surprise. I don't know. It's certainly to my surprise. With that, there is a risk that we will eventually have to stop this construction. That is the argument for me to be sure to look for an alternative. I think we've done the same in the department over the past few years. We looked very carefully at what the construction is. We are very reluctant to extend the legal powers. Some people say that's just a small step. But how do we do it in the Netherlands? That's what the department of OCW does. We are very busy informing our knowledge field. Many officials are working on that. But at some point you ask: what about Brussels, because that is such an important factor? For me, this is an appropriate time to say: now the relationship is mature enough to be settled in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u83	I thank the Minister and note that we have arrived at the second term. First of all, I am looking at Mr Bishop who has had this law hammered out. I call Mr Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u84	Thank you, Mr President. I imagine you'd like to hear it again. I would like to thank the Minister for the good exchange of views. I really appreciate it. I also think it is good that we have talked about this in this way. I have to admit to the Minister that I'm not convinced. On the other hand, the debate strengthened the feeling that this is some sort of occasional legislation, an occasional argument. I understand the considerations, but I do not think this is a good figure from the point of view of state law. That means I will advise the group to vote against this law. I hope that at least there is sufficient support from the Chamber for the amendment. That certainly makes the bill a little bit better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u85	I thank Mr Bishop for his contribution. I'm looking at Mrs Westerveld for her input. I call Mrs Westerveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u86	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank colleagues for this substantive debate on a rather technical legislative proposal. I liked to see that we could reasonably confine ourselves to the legislative proposal and did not do all kinds of things, even though I was a little bit guilty of it myself. Thanks also to the Minister for the clear answer. I thought his answers to a number of points were actually clearer than the explanatory statement. That would also be an incentive to explain ourselves in a very understandable language from now on, so that we may have to ask a little less questions here too. I will advise our group to be positive about this bill. I found the explanation given by the Minister at the end as to why this is not state aid quite clear. This is a relevant point, on which the Council of State also had very critical questions. I have one more question for the Minister. It's about making sure all students get the chance to internationalize. The Minister replied to that in his reply. He also said: we are paying attention to this; we are paying attention to students who have a less easy financial situation. I know this has been under the attention of the Ministry for many years, but this remains of course a problem. I would like to ask the Minister to explain later, or perhaps in another letter, how we can really ensure that internationalisation is accessible to everyone and that this does not become a party for the students who already have it more widely. Because we really need to ensure that higher education remains accessible to everyone, that there are the same opportunities for all students. We must therefore also make sure that the student's wallet or the student's parents do not play a decisive role in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u87	I thank Mrs Westerveld for her input and look at Mrs Van der Woude for her second term. I call Mrs Van der Woude.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u88	Thank you, Mr President, for a very brief contribution on my part. Thank you, too, for the excellent preparation of colleagues and for the very clear answers given by the Minister. I will advise you to vote in favour of this bill. We also welcome the golden middle ground found in the CU and VVD amendments. We believe that the whole of it will improve. Finally, I would like to encourage the Minister and perhaps ask him a question about it in order to continue to bring the subject of knowledge security to the fore. It was discussed today; a little out of order, as far as I am concerned, in a question with an answer. We recently had a debate on knowledge security, very extensive. In it, the striking new approach has been presented, with the window, which looks incredibly good. Everyone has put the department and the services really their best people behind it. Subsequently, the Minister promised to the VVD to make binding agreements with institutions on making a risk analysis of weaknesses they have, for example, with regard to influences of state actors such as China. This was all before the war broke out. It is now more urgent than ever that this is done and that we are working on these agreements. While there are still questions as to whether we are doing enough, I would like to ask the Minister: are you indeed actively engaged in bringing these agreements to the attention of the institutions? You'd write another letter about that, so we can see how it's going to take shape. I will come back to this in any case in our note-taking meeting on 11 April, but I am also taking advantage of this moment. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u89	You're welcome, and thank you, Mrs. Van der Woude. Then we come to Mr De Hoop for his contribution to the second term. I call Mr De Hoop.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u90	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thanks also to the Minister for replying. Thanks for the commitment on the MBO. I think it is important that this should be given the attention it deserves in the area of internationalisation. That's what I'm tasting with the Minister, so I appreciate that very much. I am also pleased that, in this debate, we have highlighted, in particular, the positive aspects of internationalisation. I felt that there was a negative hint of internationalisation. There are legitimate concerns about knowledge security and about the large influx of international students, but I think it is important to keep repeating that internationalisation is very important for our education and our science. Nuffic has a crucial role to play in this. It is good that this has been said today. I would also like to thank Mr Bishop. I think he has raised a fundamental discussion by dehammering. It is good that we have done so today and that we have given this process the care it deserves. My group will vote in favour of the Minister's proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u91	I would also like to thank Mr De Hoop for his last comment. That may have been my only role today to say that, as a result, the proper legal treatment takes place. But that's okay. That has now been noted, I say with a wink. I'm looking at Mrs. Van der Graaf for her second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u92	Thank you, Madam President. It will be a short second term. I would very much like to thank the Minister for his answers and the clear explanation he has given for the importance of this bill. I will also advise my group to vote in favour of this bill. I also promised to amend the amendment following the change we had. I will. I will briefly mention the changes here. The Minister said: I am pleased that you have given me the space, but I do not need all the space. He made the six-year proposal. I have now included this in the amendment as follows: 'and then every six years at the latest'. This gives the Minister the opportunity to join that evaluation exercise of the Erasmus programme, and it is also in line with how external evaluation is normally carried out in this field of education. That seemed like a nice route to me, in response to the Minister's request. Furthermore, the explanatory statement said: "This amendment adds to the law that whole foundation Nuffic (...)." That word "very" comes out, because that was confusing, I understand. This is indeed about the tasks as set out in the amendment, 'both in the case of a legal person with a legal function and in the case of an independent administrative body'. I think we'll be there together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u93	I thank Mrs Van der Graaf. Congratulations on the speed with which the amendment has been amended in two respects. That's what you're going to turn in now, isn't it? Oh, no, that was before. All of that doesn't have to happen anymore. It's all digital. The world is changing so fast. I think the Minister will be able to respond to that later. I am looking at Mrs Van der Laan from D66 for her second term. I call Mrs Van der Laan.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u94	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank colleagues and the Minister for the clear answer. You have made it clear that internationalisation is extremely important for the Netherlands in its position as a knowledge country. I also found it very important to hear that it is from the Netherlands with an open view to the world, but also the other way around. The position of the Netherlands vis-à-vis Brussels has been very well expressed. Now I'm gonna stop complimenting you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, you've done well. I will also advise my group to vote in favour of this proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u95	I would like to thank Mrs Van der Laan for her input and look at the Minister. On two points I saw questions and comments from GroenLinks and the VVD. In the meantime, if it is all right, the amendment will also be on paper. Am I bluffing? Yeah, I was bluffing. It's not coming. I hope you remembered. I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u96	Mr President, thank you for this opportunity to speak to your Chamber on such an important subject. Thank you for the fact that internationalisation, with all the conditions that go with it, is becoming a growing interest. It is good that we have been able to talk about these two areas, namely internationalisation in the broadest sense, but also in Europe in particular. I would also like to thank Mr Bishop for having called this off and for having had this opportunity for this discussion. Of course, it pains me that I haven't been able to convince you, but maybe we can agree to disagree here. I have no doubt about the importance that you and your group attach to internationalisation, but also that you are strictly monitoring the statutory tasks of the government. You were just talking about that critical look. It's very important, I think. Maybe just a few answers to the questions. Mrs Westerveld stressed once again that it is important for all students to be able to benefit from these grant programmes. I really do agree with that. I also think we have something to learn in the Netherlands. My own experience in the United States was that all grant programmes paid much more attention to this in order to make them inclusive. That is always a bit difficult, because sometimes these grants are awarded by advisory committees. I'm not talking about that directly, but I need to have a conversation about that. Sometimes figures can also help: where exactly are these scholarships going? Because it happens without a doubt that if your immediate environment has no experience with internationalization, you just forget to sign up. I told you, Nuffic has some beautiful elements. Sometimes it is too big a leap to go abroad for a year at once, so to speak, but a shorter stay can help. So you have to build some kind of kicked construction for that. For example, I recently had a discussion about the Fulbright programme, which we are doing together with the United States. There was also emphasised: can you also pay attention to diversity and inclusion, which we on the United States side would appreciate so much? Moreover, the Caribbean part of the Kingdom is an important part of this. Sometimes they're in an even more unfortunate position. I've talked to you about that before. Then there are the questions or, in fact, Mrs Van der Woude's comments on knowledge security. It's very easy for me to say that I'd like to stay and talk to you about that. We've opened that window now. Interesting that there have been dozens of applications in this first month. Of course, I cannot tell you what those requests were, but there is a real interest. The Dutch field of knowledge really uses it to orient itself. I have indeed promised that I will ask the institutions about the inventory and the central investment of responsibility and that I will have discussions with the supervisory boards on this matter. I'm going to inform you all about this shortly, but for me this is still a walking conversation. The attention of your Chamber in this debate is a very important one and I very much appreciate it. So to be continued, not as a delay, but really to the next steps. I should like to turn to Mr De Hoop's questions, or indeed his comments. He said take the MBO. Yes, very emphatically. As I said, it plays an important role in Europe. I have said on other occasions that the way in which we set up the MBO in the Netherlands, with a very strong connection with business and with dual tracks, in which you follow most of your training within a company, is of great international interest. You said take the MBO with you in this internationalization. That is absolutely not addressed to deaf ears. Strangely enough, it sometimes runs very well in parallel with the way in which our business unites internationally and, above all, at European level. Indeed, we must find the right middle ground in internationalisation. We cannot close the Netherlands, because then there will be no oxygen. I think that we need to give a more strategic interpretation of that discussion, which could include a number of strategic arguments. We were just talking about diversity and inclusion, but we also have our top sectors. What are the fields of knowledge? Which countries are our strategic partners and which are certainly not? We have to be afraid of that. We will continue to have that conversation, because internationalisation will not go away from our agenda. I would like to thank Mrs van der Graaf for the amendment. I would like to ask her and Mrs Van der Woude, as joint proposers, if we can have further discussions on the exact wording. I do not feel comfortable with the text at the moment. It extends far beyond my knowledge of law to give the green light now. I think we are in complete agreement in the spirit, but I am concerned about setting the exact points and commas. If you would like to contact those in the Ministry who know all about this, that would be greatly appreciated.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u97	It is always good to agree in spirit, but by law it listens a bit closer. I give the floor to Mrs Van der Graaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u98	That's right. If the Minister makes that request to me so kindly, it is appropriate for me to respond appropriately. That's what we're gonna do. I think we've understood each other. We're gonna see how these dots and commas can be set exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u99	I'm already incredibly excited. Everyone seems to be getting together all the time, but they're not. If you don't know what this debate is about from the outside, I'm sure you'll still be very excited to know how it ends. I have every confidence in that. I'm gonna take a look at the minister. Does he?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u100	I have every confidence in that. I was at the United Nations last week. There 193 countries are permanently negotiating one text for two weeks, so...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u101	Then things are going pretty fast here!
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u102	...it could be much more complicated! I think things are moving relatively fast here. Thank you for the flexibility. With that breathing space, I'm giving the amendment judgment room. Those were my comments, Mr President. I thank your Chamber for this very interesting debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u103	I thank the Minister. We have come to the end of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u104	The votes on the amendments and the legislative proposal will take place next Tuesday, 29 March. I would like to express my appreciation for the sweet words expressed by both Members of Parliament and the Minister regarding the consequences of the war in Ukraine for many international students. It was a pleasure to be of service as chairman. I wish you all a good continuation of the day and of your parliamentary work. My compliments on the way in which the Chamber, in the broadest sense of the word, has handled this legal procedure. I shall suspend the sitting until 1 p.m. The next two-minute debate will be the EU Health Council.
