ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-6.u1	The next item is the Amendment of the General Administrative Law Act to the revision of Section 2.3 of that Act, i.e. the Modernisation of Electronic Administrative Movement Act, Chamber No. 35261. A warm word of welcome to the Minister of the Interior. Thank you for joining us.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-6.u2	We have four speakers from the Chamber and the kick-off is done by Mrs Rajkowski, who has requested seven minutes. The floor is up to her.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-6.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Everyone prefers to communicate in their own way, including with the government. One by mail, the other by mail. Young people will be able to receive information via MijnGovernment.nl without stress on a world trip. People who are more focused on receiving mail need not be afraid to miss a digital message, by choosing to receive letters. Digital possibilities are added. As far as we're concerned, the counter function is always maintained. For the VVD, it is an important prerequisite that the possibility remains for people who cannot or do not want to have digital contact with the government, also in their own way at the desk, to continue to do so by post without creating a whole bureaucratic burden. Mr. Chairman. I would like to give the Minister a number of points. The first point concerns paper and mail. In the run-up to the legal process, the VVD stressed that those who cannot or do not want to communicate electronically with the government should continue to do so in other ways. In this law, that's how it stays. The option of continuing to communicate with the government by post is important. I will therefore make it very clear that the Chamber will also be informed when the cabinet is considering a derogation. An additional guarantee is that this law strengthens the government's duty of care in digital and non-digital communication. How will the Minister ensure that the retention of paper communication remains easy and does not become a digital purple crocodile for those who do not like digitally or are digitally less skilled? The second point concerns the prevention of the proliferation of government inboxes. Most people who listen will know MyGovernment.nl. That's a personal message box. This law can ensure that administrative bodies are all very enthusiastic about making their own government inbox. This can lead to a lot of confusion, is costly and, as far as I am concerned, it can also be quite annoying. My Government then turns into a Federation Message System. I'm just gonna keep it on My Government for a little while now. This would be a good time to ensure that administrative bodies are also connected to that one government inbox. Administrative bodies should therefore ensure that their messages can be read in that one inbox as soon as possible. Only exceptionally a custom message box is possible. I'd like a response from the Minister. I may be considering a motion, but I shall wait for the debate first. Mr. Chairman. My third point is about MyGovernment.nl, which becomes the Federation Messages System. The cabinet needs to accelerate to ensure that this becomes a platform where people can really get in touch with the government digitally. This has already been the subject of an adopted VVD motion by Mr Middendorp. He then called for people to be able to ask questions, to respond to received messages and so on. The following point: crooks try to seduce people through fake messages to click on seeming messages from MyGovernment. Many of these messages can be found online. We must not make criminals too easy and protect people too. The more digital communication becomes, the more attention needs to be paid to this. How is the Minister going to accomplish this? Mr. Chairman. My final point concerns registered mail. Currently registered mail often contains quite important information. The receiver should be able to respond quickly, perhaps it should show up somewhere, often within a limited time, sometimes even within two weeks. That is for another debate, but if we are going to choose that there will also be digital communication, I also think it is important that we regulate the sender's duty of care. The Council of State made a comment on this. Not only should the digital sending of registered mail be covered by the sender's duty of care. That duty of care must go further, so that there is some certainty that the person for whom the message is intended has also received that message. With registered paper mail you can never be 100% sure, but already a lot more sure than when it comes to a regular letter. I would actually like us to agree on these safeguards digitally, because the consequences for people can be potentially enormous. So I would like to ask the Minister how she will ensure the same safeguards as registered mail offers. That was him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-6.u4	Thank you. One more question from Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-6.u5	I find it sad to see that we are in favour of a bill with only four speakers. But Mrs Rajkowski is here, and that's good. The VVD was also very critical in the written preparation. I can actually hear her being critical, but does Mrs Rajkowski think that we should proceed with this bill? For the Council of State had six really fundamental points about the position of residents vis-à-vis the government on which this bill is lacking. Does the Group of the European People's Party think that all these points are well addressed? In other words, are we doing careful legislation here that can have a major impact on the lives of people in our country who need to communicate with the government?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-6.u6	These are very valid questions that Mrs Leijten is asking here. I have also tried to incorporate some of these points in my text. It is the duty of care that is at stake: who exactly is responsible? It's about keeping the desk function open. In any case, we have received an additional message about the fact that extra money goes to the municipalities to be accessible not only in libraries, but also in other locations in the municipality. In this respect, the VVD is now weighing up the fact that we think it is important that this bill should go through if these points are properly attached, because we also know that the Netherlands is waiting for this bill. I also saw an amendment passing by. That sounds like a very good extra guarantee. Our expectation is that we can now arrange all these extra guarantees in the debate. If Mrs Leijten has any extra points they miss, I like to hear them too.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-6.u7	What I am concerned about is that in the character and the time when this bill was written, there was still that aloof, punishing government that does everything in products and processes, whereby residents get lost. We've seen the supplemental scandal. We discussed the Bosman Committee's report. We're getting a new government. That's a promise here. There is a huge 10-year project on administrative bodies that are better and more serviceable. Then this bill comes between us, which does not take that into account and does not do it justice. So I'm really wondering if we're doing the right thing here. Secure it? That's great. But this wasn't written with that intention. This bill will make it easier to abolish paper communication. It is said: "The wordings are abstract. As a result, the bill looks technologically independent." But it's not. The Council of State has also warned us before: the moment we allow digital communication, we as legislators need to get much more control over how it will be dealt with, because the choices that are made about how that happens are very political. None of that is covered in this bill. Shouldn't we ask the Minister: pass this bill along the advice of the Council of State and see how you can fix it, so that we make careful laws, which we don't say in ten years' time "Oh, dear, we have to fix everything"?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-6.u8	A call from Mrs Leijten, who I think has been taken from the heart. Since the opinion of the Council of State, we have had additional information on a number of points, for example on the desk function. In that respect, our concerns are covered. I did have a number of additional points about how it should not be red tape if you want to keep your paper communication, etc., etc., etc. I hope I will have a reassuring answer to that later. We have an amendment by Mrs Leijten. We also voted on a motion on Tuesday, which I believe was hers. It was about always keeping the desk function open next to digital possibilities. As far as I am concerned, the guarantees are sufficiently furnished. We all want it. It's in all the election programs. It's in the coalition programs. I have not yet heard anyone in this House of Representatives who would oppose it, not even from the side of the Minister and the Secretary of State. So in that respect, let us continue with this. But, of course, it remains important that we as a Chamber be sharp. We shouldn't let people fall apart. At the same time, you can never prevent that from happening, but that must be our goal. I am waiting for the debate and the answer, but I think we should move that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-6.u9	Fine, thank you. The next speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mrs Leijten from the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-6.u10	Mr. Chairman. This is a bill that was launched in 2016. In 2017, the Ministry published a preliminary hand delivery. The Council of State advised one year later not to send this bill to the Chamber and made six fundamental points on which the Council felt that this should not be done legally. At the time when this bill was written, the government was still set up according to the laws of efficiency and efficiency. We know that efficiency and efficiency have lost the legitimacy of public transactions. That's what we're fixing right now. The supplemental scandal is over. We discussed the examination of the Temporary Committee on Implementing Organisations, the Bosman Committee, here two weeks ago. There are all the laws that are being checked for hard work that crushes the citizen. We have here a bill which the Council of State says: the group of citizens who are less self-reliant is growing and the duty to support it is weakly formulated. The starting point of this bill is really from a different time than where we are now. I would like to know from the Minister how she looks at this. My call is actually to re-assess this bill and put it past the measurement of what the Council of State has advised on digitisation aspects in the legislative process, with much more control over the application of all kinds of so-called neutrally formulated and technology-independent political choices. I'd like that. I think that's gonna make it better. Of course, you need to be able to communicate digitally with the government. But let's just say that the government doesn't have the best track record on it. We've had years of discussions about DigiD's safety. Last week I had to table a motion that people on the DigiD verification option should not be sent to an app. It'll have to take the Chamber. So the train with all sorts of policies is going the wrong way. We have a responsibility here to weigh laws carefully. Of course, you have to weigh laws carefully. I am making amendments. I'll do my job in that sense; the SP thinks along. But in fact, I think that with such a wrong position and with that wrong direction, you should retake a bill of this kind. So that's what I want to ask the Minister. There are 4 million people in our country digitally low-literate, as it is called. In a participatory society that has been created over the past few years, you have to manage to save yourself. There was someone the other day, who was an interesting thing to read, who created a manual to teach her father how to bank online. We do that automatically, but that manual contained 40 steps for what you need to do to bank online. It's not necessarily that easy for people. Now the cabinet says: we want more human contact and we use these support points and digital support points for this. But €60,000 is available per municipality. Does the Minister really think that's gonna fly? €60,000 per municipality, and 4 million people are low-lettered. That doesn't add up. In theory and on paper, we're gonna get it right, but the bill still says that entrepreneurs are considered digitally skilled. So they have to do everything digitally. So this is where the government wants to go. The digital government must become the way. In this context, I have tabled an amendment on entrepreneurs andzzp'ers. Yesterday, the General Court of Auditors had serious criticism of the Tax Administration, and with that also of the government, because it is not able to deal with false self-employment. A lot of people have been pushed into uncertainty, pushed intozzp-structures. The Minister himself knows this from the past: when she was a Member of Parliament, we had discussions about this with home care and all of them. You can see it at the Post. Those people are on paperzzp'er and then it's: figure it out in the government's digital jungle. That's not good. That's not good. I have therefore tabled an amendment to ensure that the way to choose paper is always kept open to anyone communicating with a public authority. Getting mail is a whole other thing than getting an e-mail. The President will recognize that as well; everyone will recognize that. It has a high attention value. An e-mail can easily be lost, because e-mails always come in, that goes really fast and you forget something. I sometimes forget an e-mail, while I spend a lot of time on the digital highway. There's just a lot of people getting physical mail really like it. Of course, the public authority will have to make sure that the language is understandable and that there is something to do about it and that there is always a telephone number so that you can contact someone. There is still a great deal to be done. But the idea is: you get a message and you go to a message box. Mrs Rajkowski had questions about this: it is not going to be different by institution, with different passwords, and you name it all. Then it's gonna be a jungle. I agree. But what if someone has a message box and communicates with the government? In the past, we have said that people must indicate whether they want to deactivate 'post' or not. They have to give the right e-mail address. We've created all kinds of safeguards. Does this amendment of the General Administrative Law create this too? I don't think so. We have had a lot of concrete debates on DigiD and on MyGovernment.nl: how did it work, how did it not work, how could it be safer and how could it be more accessible? But this bill doesn't cover that, and I'm so worried about that. If the Minister does not want to retake this bill and do not want to impose on the government we want the accessible, involved, human government with "human measure," as it is called today, is it necessary for me to try to ride in it by means of an amendment that must always be given active consent by individual administrative body? And then what happens when the internet is broken, when the website is out? We see what happens when that happens at the NS: then there are no trains for a whole day. I don't feel like there's a good guarantee when that happens the moment you digitally need to get your mail. It states that, in the case of, or under, a general measure of governance,...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Then why not include an obligation? Why don't we just take care of it now? For example, you could determine that the term is automatically extended by each day that the function is not there. Each party asked for this in the written consultation. The answer is: yes, but, if a decision has just been made against which you want to appeal, what you want to complain about or what you want to respond to, you have six weeks under the General Administrative Law; then you have plenty of time. But if it happens in the last week, it doesn't. The risks of the problems in implementation are consistently placed among the inhabitants. That too is not in balance in the legislative proposal. If someone has not received a message because, for example, a new e-mail address has been created, according to this law, the administrative board is obliged to contact this person in another way. Of course, that is right, but how is that going to work in practice? Can someone create sixteen e-mail addresses or send a new e-mail address each time and leave messages unread endlessly, perhaps to escape payment obligations or to be unreachable? It's not understandable how it works. How will an administrative body do this? If everyone does that in a different way and makes different choices... Then I come to my fundamental point, Mr President, and then I finish. This legislative proposal seems to have the digital self-reliant citizen or resident in mind. It thrives in the participatory society. But reality isn't that rosy. That is why I would ask the Minister to pass the bill on the Council of State's unsolicited opinion on digitisation in the legislative process. They point out to us as a Chamber that we must also remain involved in the choices that are still being made for the implementation of laws after they have been adopted; that there should actually be a check and the legislative process should be completed, because then choices are made for the establishment. And we all know it with technique: those are political choices, and if you misdirect it in some way, people get crushed. And we're not gonna say at all that a mistake can never happen; of course, but you need to find it quickly and be able to solve it quickly. I have the feeling that we are letting go of something that we cannot follow very well, and about which we will read again in a committee or in a report that careful legislation has not been done. As far as I am concerned, this is the time to start with this careful legislation. And the Minister has the key to sending us a careful law.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-6.u11	That was your contribution? A question from Mrs Van Weerdenburg.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-6.u12	Yes, thank you, Mr. Chairman. I share a great deal of the criticism that Mrs Leijten has expressed here. The Council of State was very tough. The government, the cabinet, has responded to this, and assures us that this is a tie-up between the paperwork and the digital road. That's still the main rule. And then perhaps in a special law the paper road could be abolished - but that is what we are there for, I think. My question to Mrs Leijten is why she does not feel reassured by the response to the criticism of the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-6.u13	Well, because, for example, there has not been a new opinion from the Council of State when something has happened in recent years. This bill comes from the time it was thought: efficient, efficient government. And we know that the human image in it, of how and what the government should be for the inhabitants of our country, was a completely wrong one. And you can say "this is the legal arrangement," but in the end there will be all kinds of political choices to do so. I do not feel that this is a good thing, partly because that amendment is still needed, so that entrepreneurs also get that choice and not just individuals who are in contact with the government. So that's all still in that tube. Legislative processes, these are very long lines and trains, and we are all at the end. But we have, of course, found that we are actually looking for a different direction. That's really why I'm asking the Minister. And to be perfectly honest, I have no reason to blame this minister for that. It's just that I can tell it's still in there. Whether it's an energy bill scheme we're making, where many people we would say "they should be entitled to" fall out by all kinds of technical rules that are inimitable... You can see that here, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-6.u14	Yeah, once. And the government, as you rightly pointed out, does not really have a very good track record in the field of ICT. And in this committee we often have discussions about standardisation, each ministry that has its own system and so on and so on. So I share that fear. Can Mrs Leijten indicate whether she believes in that context that the Digital Government Act, which, of course, is still with us, could still provide a solution to remove any inconvenience?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-6.u15	Well, I think we should actually look at the Digital Government Act with the same glasses. Of course, it has actually been stranded in the First Chamber for a reason, and it is now being repaired in a way that I think is careless legislation. The same is putting in the law a Rural Approach Address quality. That's all from that same case, the same look at what I've come to call "the punishing government." We all don't want that anymore. And I believe that we do not want that anymore, but in those policies and in that legislative case there is still everything that comes to us that is at odds with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-6.u16	When I listen to Mrs Leijten's speech, I think that these are a number of valid points on which I would like to hear the Minister's reaction later. I'm trying to think along, too. For us as VVD it is also important that we move quickly to those digital possibilities, because some people get stress from: two weeks on holiday and what kind of letter falls on my doormat? When it comes to a number of administrative bodies you often have something like: if you do not respond within two weeks, it is a fulfilled fact. I have just made a comment on this, which may also be something for another debate. Would it be a solution that, within the framework of this legislative proposal, I do not think that this point is clearly in place yet, because we agree that mail and letters will remain the default option, the default option, and that people who want to be able to switch to digital? The people who are digitally skilled can easily arrange and set that up and the people who are not, then do not have to switch back digitally back to post. 'Cause there's a big concern for me there, too. Would something like that help, for example?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-6.u17	Pooh... I think so. The IRS said we're gonna do mail again. This applies not only to illegal work but also to people who lack deadlines and the value of attention. So you get it both digitally and at home. I can imagine people wondering if that would be a waste. But it does happen for a reason. When it comes to these deadlines, we have a different debate. At the point of that careful treatment and rightful association with people, the Awb is really being violated. This has also happened a lot in the Tax Administration, while I hear about other administrative bodies and government organisations. And I also know people who get a lot of stress from post from government agencies. That has to do with that other character of the government, so better language, that you can call, that it's not automatically generated letters that piss people off. As far as dealing with digital mail is concerned, yesterday we saw a good example of how complicated that can be. The former Minister of VWS, now Minister for Living, found the e-mail system so complicated that he only switched to his private e-mail! So that already shows, although I would prefer to join with this self-reliant digital citizen, how difficult it is to find your way around it. The government needs to be reliable in principle and should not mess with that either, in the sense that if you make a mistake, you will suffer the consequences.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-6.u18	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-6.u19	Agreed. Perhaps it is good to note that it is important at all that everyone becomes more digitally skilled when it comes to using systems. However, I have not yet received a full answer to my question. If we amend the bill in such a way that it says that post is the default option and that if one wants, one can switch to digital, have we not already taken away a large part of that care? Then people who are digitally skilled and get stress from post can arrange that in that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-6.u20	Yeah, but you should always be able to go back. Of course, you have to ensure that digital contact between administrative bodies and executive bodies and residents, whether you are an entrepreneur or not, is always well and carefully guaranteed. The point is, however, that this is not the nature of the bill. If the Minister does not say that she wants to retake this and put it along that digital route, my group still has to seriously consider whether she can be in favour of this, with this in mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-6.u21	The next speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mrs Dekker of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-6.u22	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Digital communication can no longer be thought away from our way of life. Last week, the Chamber approved an amendment to our Constitution to explicitly include digital traffic under letter secrecy. A sign of how deep the digitisation of our society has penetrated our state system. This offers enormous opportunities, but also risks. People who are not well placed to participate in digital traffic should not be excluded. It is not for nothing that D66 has long insisted that more attention should be paid to the digitisation of our society. For this reason, this coalition agreement frees EUR 10 million for a public-private approach to digitalism. The coalition agreement also states that we are improving the accessibility of digital public services, while preserving alternatives to digital government communication. This law provides for the right to communicate digitally between citizen, entrepreneur and government. This is important, but it is good that the right to paper communication remains guaranteed. D66 believes that this is right, because people who are less digitally skilled must also be able to communicate with the government. It is for this reason that my group can support this law in its present form, although we still have a few questions for the Minister. Mr. Chairman. We understand that governments and executive organisations can no longer decide unilaterally to engage in digital communication. That's very good. It can only be done with a special amendment to the legislation. Can the Minister comment on this? Can she confirm that this is true? Next, the duty of care to support the citizen. There are several ways to do this. We are pleased to see that the cabinet is making nearly EUR 21 million structuralally available to counter digitalism. We still see a role in this for libraries. How does the Minister view this? Another way is of course to continue to make a phone number available and to communicate actively. It's not like that all over the place. Does the Minister agree with us that this is an important aspect of service provision? Of course making such a phone number available is not free. Can the Minister see if something like this is possible? How much would that cost? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-6.u23	Thank you. There is another question for you from Mrs Van Weerdenburg.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-6.u24	A quick question. Mrs Dekker spoke about digibetism, about people who cannot walk the digital road. What if there are people who can but don't want to? Do they have to be met? Can they just use the papers away?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-6.u25	Sure. This law also ensures that the paperwork remains secure. We would be in favour of that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-6.u26	For the D66 Group, I have the same question as I asked Mrs Rajkowski of the VVD. Would you not be well advised to ask the Minister to pass this bill and, above all, the further progress of this bill, with the application in the various administrative bodies and the choices to be made there in response to this bill, along that unsolicited advice from the Council of State on the careful legislative process and the digitising government? Isn't this the perfect chance to ask the Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-6.u27	I think that's a pretty good question. I am also looking forward to the Minister's reply to this. I'm genuinely curious about that. Moreover, I believe that many of the concerns expressed in the first opinion of the Council of State have been addressed in this legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-6.u28	So we should at least ask for a new opinion from the Council of State. After all, there hasn't been any more. They look at the whole, at the elaboration, at the consistency with other laws. They also look far deeper than most MPs; let's just be honest. Well, at least let's do it. They had six fundamental points. The Minister is trying to meet that, I can see that, but is that enough?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-6.u29	I sincerely think that's a good question. Only, I can't see how much work that is and how much delay it's gonna get. Yesterday, in preparation for this debate, I looked back at a technical briefing from 2019. It was told by officials that this bill dates from 2012. So this was deployed ten years ago. I don't know how much extra work this would be. I do agree with Mrs Leijten that it can be looked at in the light of the unsolicited opinion, because that is what is there. But I cannot foresee the consequences if we ask the Council of State again for advice. I know from my brief experience here that it is not necessarily customary to do so, but I direct this question equally to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-6.u30	Okay. Then I'll wait and see what the minister's gonna say.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-6.u31	Check.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-6.u32	In my input, I mentioned some of my concerns about the proliferation of government inboxes. That's what I'm really worried about. You can then look at people who are not digitally skilled or who do not want to be, but it is also incredibly annoying. Then you can completely lose the overview of important messages. What does Mrs Dekker think of the proposal to ensure that notifications of messages should always be on MyGovernment?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-6.u33	Actually, that's kind of hard for me. I agree with the VVD that we should not have a situation in which we have 5,000 different logs or 5,000 different platforms. That is now the case outside the government. At the same time, I can imagine that there is quite a lot going on through MyGovernment. I can't see if municipalities really want to communicate with that. It can also make us rig up a system that's too big to maintain. So I agree with the VVD that we shouldn't have wild growth. At the same time, I do not entirely agree that we need to have one digital system for the government that regulates everything. I'm a fan of customization every now and then.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-6.u34	I agree with what D66 just said. We certainly shouldn't have 500 or 5,000 inboxes, but we shouldn't have 10, honestly. I can imagine... DUO and UVW have their own inboxes. I think they're working properly. But it could at least be that, if there is an important message about the amount of your DUO study funding that you will have to pay for next year, there will be a signal on MyGovernment, saying: "You have an important message from DUO." Well, at least there's some kind of certainty. It also prevents stress over nasty messages, because financial reports can sometimes be annoying. Then we can at least reduce the stress in people and increase the chances that people will see that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-6.u35	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-6.u36	Can we solve it that way, not with those own inboxes, but with that notification thingy?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-6.u37	Perhaps so, although I must admit that I personally installed My Government very late. So I do get mail from different platforms. Perhaps it is a solution that comes at least through MyGovernment. I think that is already the case. I don't know what the consequences will be if we go further. But now it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-6.u38	The last speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mrs Van Weerdenburg from the Group of the Party for Freedom. If she's finished, I'm gonna suspend for lunch. The floor is up to her.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-6.u39	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Our society is digitizing at a rapid rate. Communication by digital means between citizens, but also between citizens and the public authorities, has become increasingly common in recent years. The legislative proposal before us today therefore feels like an inevitable step. In addition to the already existing paperwork, citizens and businesses are now finally officially entitled to do business with the government via the digital way. This is a good thing as far as PVV is concerned, because the paper route for many people is well-realized and can be experienced as an obstacle. Mrs Rajkowski was just talking about this. Most people are incredibly busy. Time is scarce. A job, a family, the household and a few still have time and energy left for a little sport, relaxation and social interaction. Let's face it: who now has time to, as in the past, study the local newspaper extensively in order to find out that the neighbor has major construction plans, then write a reasoned objection and send it to the municipality by registered letter? It hasn't gotten any easier in recent years either. I am curious to see how many of my fellow Members still have stamps here or a mailbox within walking distance. It's great to be able to arrange all this digitally, just between companies. The web form indicates what information is needed so you don't forget anything, you fill everything in, sign with your DigiD and ready; the objection has been filed. Mr. Chairman. Digital business with the government is a solution for many, but it needs to be properly regulated. At many government institutions, there are still a lot of pits in the digital road. Happening web forms, overactive spam filters and on-line accessibility failures: there is still a world to win, especially in terms of user-friendliness. Mrs Leijten just said the same thing. That is one of the reasons why the PVV feels uncomfortable with the space this law offers to administrative bodies to decide how to submit messages. As the Council of State rightly pointed out, there are considerable differences in the state of digitalisation between administrative bodies. Citizens and businesses often have to carry out detective work first in order to find out how it is to be submitted to the relevant administrative body. The Council of State therefore calls for a certain degree of standardisation of electronic traffic, so that citizens do not lose their way because of unforeseen and inexplicable differences. The PVV agrees. Can the Minister indicate to what extent she will respond to that call? The Digital Affairs Committee has also once spoken with the newly appointed Government Commissioner for Information Administration. It gave us when it was about the ministries: you don't all have to have the same system to achieve a certain degree of standardisation. You can also just agree things: all our systems may be different, but they have to be here, here and here. Does the Minister perhaps see a solution in that? I would also like to dwell on the large group of people for whom the digital road does not fit, for whom it is too far or for whom it is not intuitive enough. That is a larger group than is sometimes thought. It is not just about low-schools, digibetes and older people who are not digitally skilled enough, but also about people who are more visually set up, people who are less organized, people for whom a paper letter, with a logo of the municipality, the RDW or whatever, on a bulletin board is a better reminder than a notification in a message box. I happen to be one of those people myself, Mr. Chairman. I once put a brightly colored post-it note on my smartphone. Despite multiple notification apps, this just works best for me; I don't know why. So again, what about that large group of people who could do it, who is digitally skilled enough, but still prefers the paper route? Is there room for that? Mr. Chairman. How can we ensure that we bring as many people as possible into the inevitable transition from paper to digital? I believe that this transition should be voluntary and, more importantly, voluntary. I like to join the call of the VVD: a desk function must always be there and stay. Except for, uh, plastic, the desk function, I'd also argue for a phone number. That's always a little bit more low-threshold. There are those who, for some reason, prefer the paper route rather than the one they have to motivate themselves. As far as I'm concerned, that possibility must always exist. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-6.u40	Thank you. So much for the first term of office. I'm suspending the meeting until 1:45 p.m. before lunch. Then we're gonna listen to the minister.
