ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u1	The next item is the debate on the ruling of the Supreme Court of 24 December 2021 on box 3. I would like to welcome the Secretary of State for Finance. He already made his debut during oral Question Time, but this is his first debate, so good luck. Also welcome to the MPs, the people in the public gallery and the viewers at home. I would like to agree with Members as follows: four comments or questions to each other and six to the ruler. Then we shall begin, first with the applicant for the debate, Mr De Jong of D66. I would also like to say that an interruption is a short question or remark, without a very long introduction. Thank you. I call Mr Romke de Jong of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Also a warm welcome to the Secretary of State, now for the answer in this committee, also for me as new spokesman for the Tax Administration. So it's a fresh start for both of us. That fresh start is also very much needed when it comes to box 3, because the Supreme Court has said that the way taxes are levied in box 3 is wrong. The Supreme Court says it leads to an infringement of property and discrimination. That is a statement which, as far as I am concerned, is crystal clear. We are also responding to that; there is no doubt about that. Let there be no misunderstanding: this is a victory for many people. For years, people had hardly any interest on their savings, but had to pay a lot of taxes in box 3. Mr. Chairman. Let me be clear: as far as D66 is concerned, this does not mean that we are going to charge less on capital in the coming years. Everyone in the Netherlands has to pay taxes. Everyone contributes: workers, entrepreneurs, the self-employed and thus the wealthy. I read in the answer from the Secretary of State that this is also the starting point in his search for a solution. The answer to question 29 is quite technical, so let me just quote: "Developments that deviate from the pinned path are compensated. This also applies to a court ruling with tax implications for both past and future losses as a result of this judgment. As a general rule, cover is often sought as much as possible with the same type of load." I read here that we are also going to close the budgetary gap in box 3, or perhaps a bit wider: in the capital domain. That makes sense to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u3	Thank you. There is an interruption by Mr Nijboer, PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u4	I think that is a good proposal and a good starting point for D66. Today, the PvdA, together with the SP, GroenLinks and Volt, the Party for Animals has also presented itself with an alternative: a very simple, easy-to-use and fast-release progressive power load. How's D66 on the other side? Because then you really hit the big potencies and you don't have the problems of the fictitious return, which doesn't last.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u5	I understand very well that Mr Nijboer is looking for a solution right away. Don't get me wrong: I support Mr Nijboer's starting point. We do not want to reduce the overall tax burden on capital, but you already want to move away from the tax on real return. I haven't gotten that far yet. I would also like to hear from the Secretary of State what possibilities we have in that regard. I do not know at all how big the challenges really are. That's why I have questions for the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u6	We do not believe that real returns should not be taxed. In fact, that's the ideal. The problem is that that has been the ideal for ten or fifteen years. Secretary of State Weekers said we're going to enter it. But it just doesn't work out and it just keeps getting stuck. The IRS can't handle that much either. So I'm glad D66 says it has to stay within its capabilities. I would like to invite D66 to at least ensure that the capital losses that threaten to alleviate the government agreement do not even reduce the taxes on capital, as opposed to your electoral programme, and also to align it with suggestions made by the opposition.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u7	I look forward with interest to Mr Nijboer's plan. I'd like to get back to that. Our starting point is clear: we do not want to raise less on power.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u8	That's a good starting point, but I thought the beginning was a bit grotesque. In 2015, our parties were the first, in cooperation with a number of other parties, to submit a motion to actually tax returns. That didn't happen after that, with a D66 Secretary of State. This Secretary of State has just been sitting there for two weeks, and then you're gonna start blaming him for something to happen. Isn't it just a little ridiculous when D66 says it has to happen, then supplies a secretary of state, does nothing, writes it down in his election program, then doesn't get anything out of the negotiations and then blows so high up here? Shouldn't that be a different tone and a different way?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u9	That high tone comes from you. I say here: we are talking to the Chamber today about where we see directions for resolution. I'll tell you where I see it, too. But I also tell you that the coalition agreement states that we are working towards real return. That's very clear. As far as I am concerned, it is still the starting point.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u10	But the question is, of course, why hasn't that happened before? We now have a very big problem, which could have been avoided if what D66 has been saying for years had actually happened in recent years, but what is not happening on its own. Now we can say again that we want it, but when should it actually have happened? Shouldn't that be much earlier than in 2025?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u11	I think the SP is a little too big for me in this score. I can't go that far. But we do have to deal with the tax authorities having trouble with the execution. I am also very pleased that this coalition has agreed to invest EUR 290 million in the implementation of the Tax Administration. You can blame me for not having a new system here, but I am very pleased that it has been agreed. As far as I am concerned, that is still the starting point.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u12	Mr Ephraim and Mr Eppink drew a bit of a similar sprint to the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u13	I'd like a little more clarity on what D66 wants. According to D66, the compensation would go through a tax on wealthy people. Those people are duped, too. Do they get compensation first and then have to pay taxes again? I have the impression that you're advocating a capital tax through the back door.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u14	I think it's very special that you can distill that out of me. I think I was clip-and-ready. I've been that way for the last few days. In any case, we do not want to lay the bill on workers. We also do not want to cut into the plans we have for the future in terms of climate, education and living. We'd like to make it within the power domain. That's my direction of thought. I'd like to give it to our new Secretary of State today. That's exactly what you want.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u15	I'm a little confused. The State has unlawfully committed itself to money. The Supreme Court ruled on this point in the context of the ECHR. Now the same people who have illegally taken money from the State are still being caught. That's a bit of a strange thing to do. I can imagine that it is a setback, but it will really have to come from other posts.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u16	I hear what you're saying, but I'm in a different place. I think it is fair to say that this setback is being sought again, and I think that is also clear in the answers of the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs within the power domain. Of course, there is no doubt that we will ensure the restoration of the law of these savers. You can't hear me complaining about that at all. I'll say I want to see how we can solve that within the asset domain. But we still have a lot of questions about that. I'd like to put that in the second part of my contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u17	I think you'll get that chance. Mr Ephraim.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u18	I don't understand. "Right recovery" means that people are being repaired in their injustice, but if they pay just as well, there is absolutely no restoration of justice. That's just coat pocket pocket, left and right and hoops, the money's gone anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u19	I really think you're getting over that too easily. I'm telling you very clearly where I want to look for the restoration of justice. That's what I want to get from the capabilities. I want to find it in that corner. I think that's what the Secretary of State's letter says. I'd like to give him that direction of thought today.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u20	I was here yesterday at Question Time. Then the Minister of Social Affairs said: the ink has just dried. I had to think about that sentence, because it was not very long ago when people were sitting at a table somewhere and not very long ago when we had a tax plan together and actually had an opinion. We had an exchange of views on that at the time. D66 also expressed concerns at that time. Other parties have done the same. How can it be that in this coalition agreement there are exactly the same sentences as in the previous coalition agreement, when we have all had these lessons about implementation? Was there just a mistake there?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u21	I've been proud to be a Member of Parliament for ten months now. I think that's a wonderful and honorable ministry. I am particularly looking at what is now before us, the coalition agreement that is now here. It says that we are going to invest in the implementation of the Tax Administration and work towards real return. On the other hand, the whole of the Chamber knows that we really have implementation problems with the Tax Office. Last week or two weeks ago, a technical briefing revealed that everything we decide today cannot be carried out tomorrow. I would like to share these dilemmas with the Chamber here today and hopefully we can also discuss them.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u22	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u23	I need to see where I am. We were just talking about the answer to question 29. We were looking for it in the wealth domain. There are people who have suffered from the current system, but there are also a lot of people who have benefited from it. For example, people who invest and make capital gains actually pay less tax. Can the Secretary of State promise that he will indeed shape the new system in accordance with the rules he has written down? Can the Secretary of State undertake to seek cover for the restoration of justice in the same domain? Mr. Chairman. I would also like to dwell on the implementation. We were just talking about it. I'm really worried about that. The Tax Office stands for a huge execution notice. A whole new system must be designed in the short term and thousands of objections must be removed. That's why the Secretary of State says he might not even make the six-month deadline. That means notice of default and periodic penalty payments. I wonder how that works. Is there another massive process for that? Or will the IRS be flooded with letters again? Is it true that the judge decides on the granting of periodic penalty payments? The non-imposed attacks are also gonna pile up, because the tax authorities can't do anything in box 3. I wonder if people who have assets in box 3 will not get final income tax this year either. Do they have to wait until there's more to box 3? Or is this separate? So can you get a hit on box 1 and 2 and then you just have to wait for box 3? Does this therefore work through the definitive fixing of the surcharges? I think this is very important, because it can create great uncertainty about other boxes and surcharges. Mr. Chairman. I can ask a whole list of questions about the direction of the solution and its consequences. And we did that last Saturday. I often read in the answer that it depends on the chosen solution. I can understand that. I understand that this is a huge job and that not all questions can be answered today. However, I do think it is important that we, as a Chamber, should now be able to discuss this with each other. And that as a chamber, we can give the secretary of state what we think is important. I'm coming to a close, Mr. Chairman. I would like to stress once again that it must not lead to a reduction in the overall tax burden. With that message, I would like to stay in conversation with the Secretary of State in the coming period to look together for a balanced solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u24	Thank you, Mr. De Jong. Then I give the floor to Mr Alkaya of the SP. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u25	Mr. Chairman. The capital efficiency levy we are talking about today has been unfair since its introduction in 2001, because people are being pushed for a return that they did not achieve in 2001, and certainly not now. It is also unfair, because those with huge assets who take investment risk pay too little tax. This is often the case when they achieve returns. When introduced in 2001, only the SP, GroenLinks and the SGP voted against. I looked that up. But over the years more and more parties have become aware of the injustice of the capital efficiency levy. In 2015, a motion of the SP was adopted to introduce a tax on real property income. Then only the CDA voted against, the party of the new Secretary of State. In 2020, another motion was tabled by the VVD this time. Then the whole room voted in favour. However, the capital efficiency levy remained unchanged. And also amendments from the SP, for example, to exempt people who are injured from compensation for this unfair tax, were dissuaded and voted away by the government. The result is shameful today. The highest judge had to stop the government so that this unfair tax would be stopped. As a result, there is no tax at all on assets in our country. Does the Secretary of State recognise that this could be prevented if the House of Representatives had simply listened earlier to all those calls, all those motions, all those amendments? Isn't it high time the Secretary of State apologized on behalf of the government today for this injustice? When will the new tax on real gains from capital, which we have been asking for for years, finally be ready? Shouldn't that be sooner than 2025? Because it's not today that we come up with that idea. We've been asking for it as a majority at least since 2015 and as a SP for decades. Can the Secretary of State also promise that anyone who has paid too much in recent years because of this unfair tax will be compensated? So that is not everyone who paid this tax, but everyone for whom the fictitious return was too much and who therefore paid too much. In any case, these are the savers in recent years and so are those who have raised no objections. The government has caused enough injustice in recent years. Let's not add another scandal to that, please. Mr. Chairman. The lack of capacity was rightly highlighted in the debate on the declaration of government and a motion from the SP was adopted to elaborate additional measures. Now people who get dormant rich from their wealth don't pay taxes at all.It gets much worse than we thought at the time, while hardworking Dutch people keep seeing their burdens rise. Can the Secretary of State indicate how much more power inequality this debacle will increase? So when is he coming to this Chamber with an emergency repair law? There are measures in the coalition agreement that can help, for example the abolition of the so-called jubelton. That's one of those measures. According to the government, it would not be possible to abolish this unfair tax discount earlier than in 2024. But tax officials and IT experts indicate that this must be possible. As long as the tax-free donation is not immediately reduced to zero euros, this abolition could be largely achieved in practice next year. Can the Secretary of State undertake to examine whether the jubelton can be reduced as much as possible next year, in the run-up to the overall abolition in 2024? In short, we are a rich country. But wealth has been very badly distributed for years. There are plenty of opportunities to put an end to that together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u26	Thank you, Mr. Alkaya. Then I will go to Mr Nijboer of the PvdA. Mr Omtzigt is a bit later, so we're going to schedule him later.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u27	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, welcome to the Secretary of State for his first real plenary debate. Stand on it, I'd say. Immediately a ruling from the Supreme Court that has an impact that is unprecedented. It's turned into an incredible mess in box 3. We have known for years, even here in the Chamber, ladies and gentlemen, that the way in which the capital efficiency levy was put together in box 3 was not a good thing. Time and time again, the Secretary of State promised: the tax on real returns really comes. The real profit on shares and the real increase in real estate value would be taxed. Weekers have heard me say that, as well as Wiebes and File Letter, and now the current Secretary of State. I haven't heard him say it yet, but he's going to say it, because I've read the coalition agreement. By 2015 it was going to happen, but nothing is going to happen. The Tax Administration cannot yet reduce VAT on fruit and vegetables. It seems to be two years before the jubelton......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... So that's just not gonna work out in practice. That means it's being moved back to another coalition. Mr. Chairman. Since this tax on capital gains does not stand up at the Supreme Court, action must be taken. With colleagues Mrs Maatoug van GroenLinks and Mr Alkaya van de SP, but this morning Mr Van Raan of the Party for Animals and Mrs Gündoğan van Volt joined our initiative, I made a proposal for a very simple progressive capital tax in quick and very good cooperation. You'll be rid of the whole shit. We already have the foundation. We know what in box 3 is the savings, what the people have in shares and what second and third houses are. If we charge a progressive rate on this, with a substantial exemption, one tonne per person, and 1% above it, ascending to 5% above 5 million, then we will reduce income inequality in this country. It's really a huge problem that huge abilities are growing more and more. You'll only have ten, twenty or thirty houses in your possession. Then you've gotten rich in the last few years, because the return is barely taxed. Let's do something about that. We have finished that proposal. Our proposal seems to provide us with a solution to all the problems of implementation and to the problems of capacity which this coalition is currently facing.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u28	Thank you. A few interruptions. Another close call. First of all, I give the floor to Mr Eppink of JA21.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u29	Thank you. I'm always a little faster than my companions. I have a question for Mr Nijboer, whom I appreciate very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u30	Nice to meet you, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u31	Let me take a look back at the birth of box 3. If I'm not mistaken, it was during Rutte II, when the PvdA was in the government. The PvdA supplied the Minister of Finance. You were a member of this Chamber. Isn't the PvdA partly responsible for all the flaws in box 3 we're talking about? That's actually my question. Back then, Mr Van Rij, as a senator, criticized box 3. Couldn't the PvdA have done a better job? You were in the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u32	Yeah, we've been in the cabinet for a lot of years. I thought box 3 had been set up a long time ago and that supposedly and Zalm came up with it at the time. So that's a long way before my time, when the returns were still high. Then the 4% return that was initially assumed to be on the low side. The interest rates were much higher and the expected returns were also much higher. So that was actually a very positive proposal for the very wealthy. What it has ended up being completely stalled by, and let me just say it as it is, it is messing around in all those rates not to bring about a fundamental review. I was convinced, and I am still convinced, that taxing real returns across the whole width, so also in box 2, but also in box 3, is the fairest. But I do not see it coming in practice in the coming years. Then I find a wealth tax to be by far preferable.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u33	I've made the simple sum and I'm always surprised. Look, for BVNL, success pays off. Hard work also brings people economic benefits. They can enjoy it and preferably not everything must be taken away by the State. Capitals above 5 million are taxed at 5% per year. They'll be out in 20 years. I predict to Mr Nijboer that there will be a huge flight of capital. Why does the green-eyed monster always lead to the jealousy of success in the left-wing parties every time, under the guise of dishonesty? I heard Mr Alkaya say: you become dormant rich of wealth. Well, I can tell you, Mr. Nijboer, that the houses were underwater in 2013 and the people had negative power.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u34	And your question to Mr Nijboer?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u35	The lack of ability is not such a problem at all. We really do not live here in France in 1798 or in Russia in 1917. This is sucked out by the left parties to level further.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u36	I give everyone a lot of wealth and wealth, but I also give them the opportunity to pay a decent tax. We are, as PvdA, for good public services: for education, for health care institutions, for good public transport. That has to be paid for. If you see what is left of working with a middle income if you earn €100 more, you sometimes get to go home with €20 and sometimes that's even negative. This is also because people in the Netherlands, with the greatest abilities, are not making enough contributions. I want to turn that tide around. That's a political choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u37	Mr. Ephraim, your last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u38	I have a simple tip. There is a pot of 60 billion: 25 and 35 for nitrogen and climate. Perhaps Mr Nijboer could take some of that off and do some useful things with it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u39	That's occasional money. We are talking about the tax system from which you want to finance education every year. These are occasional budget lines, which I am indeed critical of and which I will really say in another debate in the near future, because I do not know whether these nitrogen billions are being spent properly in this way, but this debate is not intended for that purpose. It's just a political choice. Are you going to stand in front of the cottage milkers who have made an awful lot of returns and for those who have invested a lot on the stock market, or are you asking them for a contribution? In addition, 1% to 5% per year is very reasonable.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u40	I ask for some reflection from Mr Nijboer. The Supreme Court sank box 3 in a very clear statement. In particular, they have sunk the double fiction from 2015 in the proposal of a VVD/PvdA cabinet: the double fiction of mathematical formulas and thus allocate returns instead of simply progressing in tax rates if you want a progressive system. I think that Mr Nijboer is going over that very easily. He did the same in his response to Mr Eppink, who was indeed talking about the beginning of box 3. But the mistake, that what we are discussing today and the billions we are going to miss, has to do with that huge blunder of the VVD/PvdA cabinet in 2015.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u41	Mr Grinwis is quite right about this double fiction. We found that single fiction, that 4%, already a problem, especially with savings that didn't yield anything. Then it also had to be classified according to what one invests and what one is supposed to save. That was just a shipwreck at the Supreme Court. If Mr Grinwis had looked at the input of the PvdA in those debates, he would see that we have always been in favour of a progressive capital return tax or capital tax. That is also clear, and that is fair and everyone knows where they stand. But there are parties in this Chamber who didn't want to. The outcome was here previewed by the cabinet. The Secretary of State didn't say this wouldn't last at the Supreme Court, but he said this could of course. It was a more progressive box 3 charge. That is why we agreed to this, because that was the purpose. But I very much agree with you that this legislation is raging on all sides. The Secretary of State, I don't feel like naming which party they were, but they happened not to be from the PvdA this time, have said time and again: in a few years we're really going to do it, then we're going to count on those real returns. Now Mr Grinwis, who should know better, puts his signature back underneath. It's gonna happen in 2025. It's not gonna happen!
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u42	This huge tap on the fingers of the state seems to me to be the time to think very carefully about what you really want to tax. To possession? On income? On value gains and gains? What legal basis are you going to attach to that? Is it also feasible for the IRS? I appreciate that Mr Nijboer is coming up with his alternatives very quickly, but isn't the lesson of that 2015 political trick that we need to take the time to think very carefully about a sustainable system? It must be legally sustainable and enforceable, and do justice to savers. Finally, it must be able to function for years.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u43	I would have liked the coalition agreement to include a fundamental revision of the tax system, which would increase the contribution of polluters and wealthier companies. That didn't happen. I am also in favour of doing a great deal in box 2, and I will therefore make proposals for that. But Mr Grinwis knows as well as I do that if you want something, it's gonna take years. We have an acute problem now. It is not from the last few weeks, because it was already in our election programme. But in recent years I have come to the conclusion that taxing that real return is really the best, also theoretically, but that none of that is due to the current state of the Tax Administration. If you want to contribute wealthy people in the Netherlands, then together with colleagues from SP and GroenLinks I have provided an alternative. Volt and the Party for Animals now join in. I'll show you how it's done, how it's done with a foundation we already have. That basis is already being used and is progressive. Of course, you can always discuss tariffs, but I think that is relatively understandable, given the current state of the Tax Administration. The Secretary of State will have to respond to that. I would like to see it, but it will not be introduced next year. That is why I think it is an alternative.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u44	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u45	Yes, Mr. Chairman. I would very much like to talk about the tax system and what else has to be fundamentally different. I will make some proposals for this, but Mr Grinwis is quite right, because it really ought to be even more fundamental. Mr. Chairman. I come to the ruling of the Supreme Court. The PvdA believes that the ruling of the Supreme Court should be respected. We live in the rule of law and we simply need to act on it. The PvdA Group also does not think it is fair that only objectionors should get what they want in the near future. It can't be that the people who have waited nicely at home in a system that doesn't stand by the highest court will soon have checked. As far as we are concerned, therefore, everyone must be treated equally. I would ask the Secretary of State to deal with the extent of the damage expected, because it is not the case that the Supreme Court has said that you should not tax any capital gains at all. He has said domestically: you must not tax returns that are not achieved. But there are, of course, that is also what I saw in the figures sent by the Secretary of State, which have also achieved a lot of returns in recent years. If you look at the number of people with very high capital which had only savings and made almost no return, it is a relatively limited amount within the yield of the capital efficiency levy, which is about 20%. I'm asking the Secretary of State to go into that. I am also very much in favour of it being covered as usual within the budgetary rules: if you have a huge setback in the case of assets, it must be covered there as well. Although I have yet to find out in this cabinet what budgetary rules they are going to comply with. So I agree with D66, because this point of departure really needs to be met. I also agree with Mr Alkaya's remark that we had a hearing on this jubelton, which could also be introduced a year earlier. You'd already have the first few hundred million. Is the Secretary of State prepared to do so? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u46	Another interruption by Mr Grinwis, Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u47	While we're here, Mr. Chairman, I do have one more question. This point of departure has also been written down in answer to question 29 on how budgetary policy works. I therefore agree that the coverage of setbacks, even after a judgment, must be found in the domain where they arose. At the same time, if you were to throw that as a result commitment to the Secretary of State, you wouldn't know exactly what you're saying. At Groningen we are not going to financially solve the restoration of the law by pumping up some extra gas to strengthen Groningen. We are not going to solve the surcharges by reducing the surcharges for a number of years. So shouldn't we also be a little careful when it comes to many billions? Yes, basically we have to find it there, but at the same time it can also run out in such a way that it is not entirely retrievable in the same domain.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u48	Yeah, but I think it's the other way around. I am spokesperson Groningen and Groninger as well as spokesperson fees, like Mr Grinwis, by the way. If you see how quickly we are talking about billions in compensation, a few weeks after the verdict, and how far away we are from Groningen... It's ten years after Huizinge this year. It's still fighting every day. This morning, we had another debate on the problem of allowances, and you participated in that. If you see where we stand, how difficult and difficult things are going there, and how the big wealthy people are already talking about billions of dollars, then I think there is some political back pressure in place here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u49	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Idsinga of the VVD. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u50	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We are talking today about an issue that concerns many savers and rightly so. People who make money understand that they have to pay taxes on this, but then that money must be really earned. It is good that we are having this debate on the savings tax today, because the VVD has many questions for the cabinet. Mr. Chairman. Many Dutch people try to put some money aside every month for later and they pay more taxes on it than is fair. Savers are so the loss of the savings tax. For years the VVD has been asking for a solution to this problem to be passed on to real rather than fictitious returns. The interest rate has been zero in recent years. We have repeatedly pointed out the financial and legal risks. We have repeatedly asked questions about this to the cabinet. We have put forward solutions for the period until effective efficiency can be achieved. We are talking here, for example, about small entrepreneurs or elderly people who have put aside money every month for their pensions and do not want to run any risk with them. They deserve to be clear from the cabinet quickly. Mr. Chairman. I'd like to take a look back at what happened over the last few months. There is now a ruling from the Supreme Court. How can it be that there seem to be no elaborate contingency scenarios, while it was known that there were several court cases about the savings tax? How is this possible? Can the Secretary of State explain why my predecessor Helma Lodders' proposal was so opposed? She asked for a so-called counter-proof scheme for people with savings so that they could prove that their real return was lower than the fictitious return. This was considered socially undesirable by the previous Secretary of State. Does this Secretary of State agree? Isn't the situation that has arisen much more undesirable? Mr. Chairman. The cabinet could have seen this situation coming and prepared for it, but it should not have been. As far as the VVD is concerned, the new system cannot be sent to the Chamber quickly enough on the basis of real returns, but we are not there yet. Right now, we're dealing with a verdict from the Supreme Court. The cabinet will have to abide by that and implement it, so the cabinet is now looking at restoration of justice for those who have unjustly paid too much. Savers have had to sue for years to get right. They must not suffer from the solution chosen by the cabinet. That's important to the VVD. When can the Cabinet clarify which group will benefit from this recovery? Are these just the people who started proceedings at the time or the people who did not? What is this recovery going to be like and when can people actually see something for whom this applies? Then the IRS. Last week it became clear once again that the outdated IT systems pose major challenges to the service, when it comes to implementing, for example, tax changes. That is absolutely worrying and can also stand in the way of the recovery of the problems we are discussing today. What measures does the Cabinet take to resolve this? Mr President, my final questions. What will happen until the introduction of the new box 3 system? Is there going to be emergency legislation? That was not clear to me from yesterday's letter. Is there going to be a counter-proof scheme, as the VVD suggested earlier? Or does the Secretary of State see other solutions for the coming period? Finally. Can the cabinet indicate how a tax on the actual yield is to be levied as soon as possible? What is the timetable and what steps should be taken? The VVD is happy to remain in dialogue with this Secretary of State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u51	Thank you. There is an interruption by Mr Eppink of JA21.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u52	My time is right on zero!
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u53	Yeah, fantastic!
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u54	I have another question for the VVD. The VVD has dealt with this matter in the last ten years. We're in big trouble right now. Isn't the VVD partly responsible for that? My question is, in fact, the following. You're in favour of taxing returns. I am. At least, on real return. I think that's very good. D66 is for load on power. That's a different direction. Are you willing to go in the direction of D66, towards load on power? And if so, isn't the VVD getting too far from D66?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u55	Let me start by saying that we are responsible for this. Yes, we are indeed responsible for this. In all these years we have tabled motions as a VVD Group to change box 3: motion on motion on motion. My predecessor, whom I have already mentioned, has tabled several motions on this subject, and I have tabled several motions myself. We have it in our election program. We want a fair tax based on real returns rather than fake returns. We don't want that. We are also pleased with the agreements that we have finally been able to reach in the coalition agreement. As far as the VVD is concerned, this tax will be based on real return.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u56	I like the "ver-D66'ing" of the VVD. I'm very curious if we're gonna hear it here more often. I hear the VVD mainly talking about the processes, but does the VVD recognise that we are dealing with a potential billions problem here? If we don't do something, maybe we won't be able to tax assets at all. I would like to ask the VVD: does it really need to be borne by the workers, or is the VVD prepared to look with D66 to see if we can ask for an extra contribution to wealthy people who have been making very high returns and who have been benefiting from this system for years? Isn't that much fairer than putting it down to workers now?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u57	I think it is far too early to answer the question: where do we put the pain? I think it's way too early for that. We've asked so many questions to the Secretary of State. We haven't even mapped out the group we're talking about yet. So I think it is far too early to talk about where we should put the bill. I think it is a good development that we are finally going to come up with a long-term system in which capital income is taxed in a real way, in a real way and not in a fake way. But the question now lies with the Secretary of State. I'd like to see the Secretary of State's plans first.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u58	I fully agree with the VVD that we need to work towards real return. That's what we agreed on, and that's what we stand for. Hopefully we'll get to work on that as soon as possible. I hear your questions from the Secretary of State and I do, but you actually say that it is far too early to answer the question we are going to look into. I had hoped that today I would hear in which directions all parties are thinking. I also hear proposals, for example from the Labour Party and the SP. You say you still have questions for the Secretary of State. May I hear from you in the second term what the VVD is thinking about or are you not going to make any statements today about the direction in which you are looking for the solution?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u59	I understand this question, but there are still so many questions that need to be answered first. We can now take an advance on what the scale of the problem is, but we still do not quite know it. We still do not know which people have to be compensated and which people can then make all kinds of claims. We don't have that in the picture yet. So before we can say "so and so we're going to divide it exactly," I really need input from the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u60	Too soon? Too soon? Three weeks after the coalition agreement, the Secretary of State is sitting right here with a very big problem. My question is a very political question, namely: does the VVD allow this State Secretary to look at solutions in the broad capital tax, including the question of the account? Or is the VVD keeping the door shut?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u61	You can read what is written in the coalition agreement. In the coalition agreement, we agreed that we would all introduce a new box 3 system based on real returns. That is, in the first instance, what I will hold the Secretary of State to. I expect his plans on this first. I think it's way too early to start thinking in all kinds of directions. We're not ready for that yet. The Secretary of State has yet to begin.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u62	I notice that every time I think, why did you write it down? But that's not my question. My question is this. We're talking basically here. There's a secretary of state here with a very big problem on his plate. He's got to look. We have reservations. There are people who file laws and say: this is something you can think about. I want to hear a political appreciation from the VVD. I want to hear what she thinks is fair and fair in the directions of resolution. I think that's a normative statement you can make. Of course we'll get information later. And then we're gonna go back and we're gonna go back and we're gonna go back and we're gonna go back and we're gonna go back and we're gonna go back and we're gonna go back and we're My question to the VVD is: does the VVD allow this State Secretary, unlike in the coalition agreement, to look in a broad sense at the burden on capital in resolving the account created by messy and poor legislative policies? There's nothing the Secretary of State can do about that. Does the VVD give that space?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u63	The Secretary of State will have to work first. I realize that I am now repeating the same answer a few times, but the Secretary of State has to get to work first. He has a big problem on his plate; we agree on that. And he's already at work, he says outside the microphone. That's good to hear. We expect plans, concrete plans from the Secretary of State, which we can then respond to and which we can then do something with. I think it is far too early to speculate on this. All those people who are watching at home have a lot of questions about this. Those are all real questions. But I find it irresponsible to give an answer to this question so quickly. I think that's really irresponsible.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u64	Shooting out of the hip? We had a debate on the declaration of government, and there was a Prime Minister who said: is there really a problem with the relationship between the burden on labour and the burden on capital? That's what they wanted an investigation on. This while we're out of control planning and putting notes in election programs. I'm asking a very simple question. Can the VVD tell us what they think? And do you give this Secretary of State, who is working hard, along with all the officials, space? I conclude that I have asked the same question three times and have not received a normative statement from a politician three times, here in the Chamber, where we are having a debate on the main points.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u65	As Mrs Maatoug knows, in the spring we will be discussing skills inequality. That's what she's referring to. Until then and until the Secretary of State comes up with scenarios, I just think it's way too early to make statements about all that. So I'm not gonna do that today either.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u66	That's what you said. Mr Omtzigt, and then Mr Alkaya.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u67	I have a question. I just heard that the VVD filed a lot of motions to change box 3. It's been in the VVD's election program. The VVD is pleased that it is in the coalition agreement. It was also in the previous coalition agreement. Is the VVD actually in the government?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u68	Last time I checked, yeah. Sure. The VVD is in the government, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u69	I am asking this question, of course. If the largest government party here says "we've wanted a change for six years" and it hasn't worked for six years, what is the reflection of the VVD on that? For six years, why didn't we manage to change something from the Chamber that the VVD wants in the election program, in the government agreement and in motions here? What is the role of the Chamber towards the government in the eyes of the VVD?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u70	That's a very good question. I'm not in the government myself, and neither are you. I'm in the room. I'm asking critical questions. I'm controlling the government. That's my responsibility. I've been in this room since March 31st. In the meantime, I think I have tabled two or three motions on this point. There have been commitments. Nothing was then done to it by the predecessor of this Secretary of State. That's disappointing. That is why I am pleased that we have now been able to reach agreement on this in the government agreement. I'll keep the government doing it right.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u71	That deal in the coalition agreement, that's what we're all laughing about. Because we have an acute problem here. That needs to be resolved this year, not 2025. Otherwise, we have a legal problem. Then we can all visit the Supreme Court or the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg all day long. I must say that Mr Idsinga is extremely consistent with his predecessors. The VVD's been saying this for about six years. I'm still looking for a reason for the VVD. If the VVD Group does not manage to control and adjust the government here, how does Dutch democracy currently work in the eyes of Mr Idsinga? Because they've been the biggest government party all along. So you can say you're taking a motion. That's what we do here. We'll tweet that then. I have indeed seen several times that VVDs read out the election programme. Your colleague did that the other day when it was about not taxing extra taxes in the framework of the IZB. But it won't happen. What exactly is the reason for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u72	It's my responsibility, like yours, to control the government. That's what we're here for. We have put forward solutions for the future of Box 3. We have said that we want to raise box 3 on the basis of real returns in the future. In the meantime, we have also put forward solutions. In my view, you have also played a part in the whole discussion that we may be doing something with a counter-proof arrangement as long as the new system is not there yet. We talked about that, too. There has been a reaction from the cabinet, namely that this was undesirable. Yeah, you can. It's possible that's undesirable. Now we're stuck with the fried pears. So we're gonna have to reset all sails now. I find it hard to look back all the time. I'd rather look ahead. 'Cause I'm a new MP. You'll understand. I want to look forward. We now have the momentum to implement that new box 3 system. Let's just do that together. I'm counting on your support, Mr. Ommzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u73	I actually had exactly the same question as Mr Omtzigt. But this answer doesn't really make any sense. I was just as keen on D66 because we are discussing matters here in Parliament, adopting motions and then assuming that it happens. The officials said to us two weeks ago: "That did not happen. We can't get it done at the Tax Office, because there is a lack of maintenance." Rear maintenance! Whose responsibility is that, then? If that's the government, I think that's the government. Because because of this delay we, as representatives of the people, cannot get the things that we consider desirable into practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u74	Yeah, there's late maintenance. We also recognise that there is overdue maintenance. That is why we have also released money in the coalition agreement, I believe 290 million, for the years to come. That is what we are doing to ensure that we are at least going to make a significant improvement in that overdue maintenance at the Tax Office. Once again, I think it is a good thing that I have just done this in my speech to the Secretary of State, in my opinion, to ask how this late maintenance is working on the issue we are dealing with today. I think that we are in line with the question put to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u75	Oh, look. Mr Nijboer of the PvdA. You might have expected it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u76	Mr Idsinga awaits everything from the cabinet. But I miss so many principles in his contribution. Don't you think there's something about capital contributing? I ask him: how does he base his optimism that it will now work out after the ten years in which the VVD tabled a motion after a motion stating that it should all be done? I also supported them, because I was also in favour of real return. On what basis does he base that the Tax Administration can handle it now, that they say: everything runs smoothly, we can have this? Where did that optimism come from?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u77	That optimism, where did it come from? I'm an optimistic man, Mr. Nijboer. Maybe we should start with that. Here's what I understand. We have questioned the Secretary of State several times in various debates about this. I think that was even the old Secretary of State. I can't say "old," but we asked the previous Secretary of State about that. He informed us a few months ago, I believe, that it should be possible, also from the system side of the Tax Administration, to reach that new system in a number of years. I believe 2025 was mentioned in the coalition agreement. I seem to remember him saying that was feasible, so that's where my optimism comes from. I'm going by what the government tells me.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u78	Finally, Mr Nijboer with his last interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u79	It's my last, but I'm gonna do it anyway. After all, we also have a function that you yourself referred to as a controlling function. We also need to check that it's a little credible. And it's not credible. It's not gonna happen by 2025. To see that, you really don't need to understand ICT and you don't need to be a saver who's been watching the Chamber debates on box 3 for years, which have been promised for more than ten years that we're going to tax real returns. That's just not gonna work out and it's just gonna be transferred to a coming cabinet with an account of I've got you there. I do not understand why Mr Idsinga says: it is written down and we have come out in the coalition; this is the only thing we do on assets, besides 100 million reliefs, and then we see it again for four years.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u80	I have not heard a question, but I do not share that pessimism.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u81	Thank you, Mr. Idsinga. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Maatoug van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u82	Also from GroenLinks welcome to the Secretary of State. You've got a lot on your plate. We wish you every success and wisdom. The people who are watching this debate, I actually mean myself, will have been surprised at the flexibility of the Hague politics to put forward social problems with political spelling formulas and tricks. The debate on the taxation of capital and capital is also full of it. For how long have we known that box 3 is legally at stake? And what has been done about this in the meantime? Mr. Chairman. I see mostly political spelling formulas. In fact, box 3 is a progressive capital tax, but that's not what we should call it from the right. The coalition is forcing itself into a solution with a real return, because everyone understands that it is legally unsustainable for people to be taxed on income that they have not achieved. The problem is, however, that this cannot be done in the short term. Then the question is, what do you do? What you do if the richest 10% in the Netherlands owns half of all the wealth. And yes, that includes pensions. The question is what you do if you know that the tax burden on capital income in the Netherlands is only one third of the EU average. Mr. Chairman. My biggest problem in this debacle is that the cabinet deliberately pushed the problems forward. Because at the beginning of November there was already an opinion from the Advocate General of the Supreme Court, who said: this can no longer be done with box 3. And the good reader sees the underlying message: we, the judiciary, have had enough that the legislator comes up with messy legislation and thinks we can get away with it. That should have been a signal, a signal that the strategy to push forward the puzzle of box 3 for years is no longer sustainable, a signal that perhaps it is time to correct the distorted relationship between the burden on capital and the burden on labour and finally close all those tax holes, which have been mapped out for a long time, and make plans in the coalition agreement for the adjustment of the tax on capital, because it is no longer possible as it is now. Mr. Chairman. It should have been a signal, but it was not a signal for this hard-hungry coalition. They make exactly the same mistake they made in 2017. And now that the Supreme Court has finally established that the legislator should have done his job better, this cabinet is in the hair. Political spelling formulas have a price, and always come back. And so the question is, what is this cabinet going to do? What is this cabinet going to do to make sure that this debacle doesn't lead to any further deterioration of property? What is the government going to do to ensure that, between now and the vision of a tax on real returns, the millions of assets from box 3 bear the heavy burden? And is this cabinet serious? Doesn't it just mean that wealthy people are going to have to pay for the recovery, but does it mean that something is finally going to be done about all those holes in box 2? The solutions are already in place in the building blocks. Mr. Chairman. Can this cabinet confirm that the burden on capital income in other European countries, such as the United Kingdom, Norway and Germany, is higher than in the Netherlands? Couldn't we learn from that? Finally, I would like to ask whether, in accordance with the equally often praised new administrative culture, the cabinet is prepared to look with an open eye at the initiative-law proposal that we have put forward today with other progressive parties under the leadership of Mr Nijboer. I would like to receive a response to that. Because the lesson of 20 years of box 3 is that the strategy of political enchantment formulas and of moving forward eventually comes back in the face. I therefore expect all of the Secretary of State today.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u83	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mr Ephraim of the Van Haga Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u84	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Welcome to the Secretary of State. First of all, I would like to thank the finance officials, who have worked very hard to provide the information for this debate. Following the ruling of the Supreme Court, the problem with box 3 is, as far as I am concerned, a striking example of the fragile triangle of legislation, policy and implementation, as mentioned earlier by the Council of State, the General Court of Auditors and senior officials. In addition, we are told that the Tax Administration, an indispensable link in public policy, has not only to do with a culture that is worrying, but also has serious operational failure and ICT failure. It was already known to economists that the box 3 tax with the premise that large assets invest more in shares and thus get more returns is big bullshit from the left-wing fairytale book. I think I wrote about that in the FD about five years ago. Now, after the ruling of the Supreme Court, the State has painted itself in a corner. Legally mandatory recovery takes a long time, is not easy and puts even more pressure on a Tax Administration that hangs on the ropes like a boxer waiting for the redeeming knockout. Mr. Chairman. It is, of course, gratuitous to throw this Secretary of State at everything. BVNL wants constructive politics. As far as speaking time is concerned, I would like to make some practical suggestions here. Why not abolish capital taxes, as in many European countries? After all, enough tax has already been paid on the hard-earned pennies of the hard-working sparing citizen. Surely this Europhiles coalition will like a European approach? An alternative is to go back to the old system of 4% and 30%, but to better align risk-free interest rates with practice and, for example, to review them every five years. I thought maybe ten years ago we'd looked at that as well. Given the operational problems, new, fun tax plans for this coalition are out of the question. Given the importance of a well-functioning Tax Service for all of us, regardless of ideology, it is wise that the Secretary of State periodically I propose once every three months a progress report on culture and operation ICT to the Second Chamber, which we can then discuss in the committee debate on the Tax Administration. In this way we as High College of State can optimally advise and control the cabinet. My final point. In no way should the State lose revenue on box 3 stories on the same citizen who unjustly coughed up this tax. That's like a pickpocket handing over the stolen wallet with apologies to the victim who then discovers that his wristwatch was stolen in return. I would like to receive a response from the Secretary of State on these five points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u85	Thank you very much. Then I give the floor to Mr Edgar Mulder. Excuse me, before you go, Mr Ephraim, there is another interruption by Mr Omtzigt. That'll be your last question, Mr. Overzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u86	Well, that's too bad. Because of the short term assigned here, I couldn't quite understand what the counter-proposal was. On the one hand, I hear the counter-proposal not to levy any capital tax at all and on the other hand I hear: do the fictitious capital return again. If you had established that five years ago, it would have been too high by now and you would have been on the Supreme Court. What is about the Van Haga Group's proposal to tax real estate, shares and savings in box 3?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u87	What I'm trying to do is, for the interim period, before it's operational, see if you could use the old system, but more simplified, with a fictitious interest rate much more in line with the real market rate, so that people who don't make a return on their savings don't have to pay taxes on it either. I must honestly say that I do not know whether I am going to be more operational, but it is simply intended to see if that could be a constructive interim solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u88	Thank you, Mr. Ephraim. Then we go to Mr. Edgar Mulder of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u89	Mr. Chairman. A warm welcome to the new Secretary of State. It's quite a challenge to run the IRS at this time. For this he came to fly back from below the palm trees of Saint-Eustatius, also to bring back the peace within the CDA and to keep Pieter Ommzigt within the party. Hopefully, he'll be successful in the IRS. Mr. Chairman. The ruling of the Supreme Court confirms once again what everyone knew a long time ago: the taxation according to box 3 is no good. That wasn't good in 2017, not in 2018, not in 2019 and you still don't get it. That is no surprise, as the Supreme Court already found in 2019 that the tax at system level affected property rights. That was about the years 2013 and 2014. So no surprise. It is no surprise to the Chamber either, because there have been many debates and the outcome has always been the same. Mr. Chairman. The solution is also a long time ago and is always the same: you tax on realised returns and not on fictitious returns. There have been numerous motions and many reports. This is no surprise to the new Secretary of State. During his maiden speech in 2015, he devoted a whole section to box 3. And he didn't talk about it in a positive way, just a few quotes from the current Secretary of State regarding the introduction of the power mix in box 3. He said, "I must say that I have rarely seen such an ill-thought-out plan." And another quote: "The interest rate at the moment is 1%. If inflation is 1%, I'll make 0%. I'll have to pay 1.2% on that. That means you're intubating on your hard-earned savings." Mr. Chairman. The Secretary of State calls that very neatly "interen." I call it "unadulterated theft." Now the former senator, now our new Secretary of State, can still take revenge on the VVD and the PvdA. He could still be right. I can see the Secretary of State gloating in silence. Yeah, revenge is a dish served cold. I hope he is right in coming up with a proposal to tax only realised capital gains, as it should be, as the entire Chamber wishes and as the Secretary of State wishes. Then the levy will also be acceptable and understandable by the ordinary citizen. Mr. Chairman. Because a lot of things are unclear, I have the following questions. I think we need to get the answers very clearly before we go to another system or to a solution. How much is the budgetary return if we switch to realised return? I prefer to see this with various models and different percentages about the different foundations. My second question is: will the restoration of justice also apply to those who are not involved in the so-called mass objection? And how much does it cost if we're gonna give all these people back what's theirs? What are the total costs? My third and final question is: what time does the Secretary of State know how to achieve this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u90	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mrs Simons from BET1.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u91	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's quite a technical debate, of course, as soon as it's about box 3. It may sound strange, but the more technical it gets, the more philosophical questions arise for me. The question that just occurred to me was: is wealth, is possession at all ethical? Is wealth ethical against the background that it can only exist at the expense of others? Is wealth ethical with the knowledge that millions of Dutch live on the brink of poverty at the moment? Anyway, that aside. For those who try to follow the debate at home, we are debating today the luxury problem of this government, and before this government. That's what came up. The question is, how do we burden the rich? How do we make our system fair? I can't do it. The levy that we are debating today was precisely a measure to make the capitalists contribute, however small, to society. Now the same group must be compensated from the jar that we as a whole have spared together as a whole. That wrings; that's not right. But let there be no doubt about it: compensation is, of course, entirely appropriate. It is legitimate, especially now that it appears that this levy is simply not right, especially for older people who may well be misplaced, who may have a small ton in their bank accounts, or who have received injury compensation and for whom this money is genuinely an apple for thirst. Mr. Chairman. It hurts, however, that these people have to go de facto into paying for the feats of the rich, because of course all of this cannot be explained anymore. But, optimist that I am, I see a golden edge to the ruling of the Supreme Court. That is what forces this government to think. Now the coalition parties really can't block the debate anymore. Eight months ago, I was behind the same microphone. I asked for a debate on property inequality, because I thought it was good to talk to each other about it: how are we going to make our society fairer? But that debate was blocked, as expected, by the entire coalition. Now we really need to think seriously about the big problem behind box 3: the inequality in the Netherlands; the systemic, systematic and institutional inequality hidden in our tax system. Perhaps the question I started with, namely whether wealth is ethical, is subordinate to: how unethical is poverty in a country like the Netherlands? 2 million Dutch live on the verge of poverty, while the 2,120 richest Dutch possess more than the 10.5 million poorest Dutch combined. Of those 2 million people living on the edge of poverty, a large group has one or more jobs. And of those 2,000 people, a large group has one or more boats. I think that we really need to have a discussion with each other about whether we really think that this is true at all. We may sometimes discuss how much ownership is justified for an individual to own and at the expense of whom. Perhaps the discussion is also whether you can get that money in a fair way at all. I'm sure there's a difference of opinion on that. It is certain that the State's inability to fairly tax the richest has been matched by the rest of the country. It is each time the people who earn the capital for others who are the victims of our system. I would like to hear from this ruler how and when he is going to treat these people, who are our real capital, fairly with a fair tax system. The Court of Justice of the European Communities has consistently held that the Court of Justice of the European Communities has consistently held that the Court of Justice of the European Communities is entitled to order that the Court of It is rather poignant that we are currently dealing with working people with a small scholarship who have been deeply affected by the Tax Administration, and very wealthy people who have also been put in a strange position by that same Tax Service. Following a colleague I am not seeing anymore, but the Secretary of State gave me permission to get on steam first, I think it would be a good idea to leave it to these questions for now. I look forward to the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u92	Thank you, Mrs Simons.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u93	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u94	I shall then give the floor to Mrs Inge van Dijk from the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u95	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In two days, there must be a response to the ruling of the Supreme Court. We welcome the debate today, because it concerns fundamental citizens' rights. In addition, as a Chamber, we have a budget responsibility, and it is probably a question of substantial sums. It is also important that the Chamber has been worried about the bankrupt box 3 system for years. My group has already expressed these concerns on several occasions in the past, including in the case of the adjustments at the time. Unfortunately, these concerns are now justified. Mr. Chairman. I would like to start with two general points, with which I refer a little bit to the previous speaker. I notice that many people say about this issue: this is about rich people; we do not have to feel sorry for them. But this discussion is also, and above all, about a group of older people and self-employed people, about people who choose to build an apple for thirst by saving. These are people who do not like to be at risk, these are people like my parents: a gas fitter with a small income who has worked hard and overworked for 40 years and who lived very economically. You don't allow yourself to be luxurious, because you have to save up for later and leave your family well cared for. We're also talking about doing justice to justice. There's a verdict. Whether it's about rich or poor, everyone in the Netherlands deserves justice. How are we gonna handle this? Today's discussion begins. For us it is a very clear start, because much is still unclear. Mr. Chairman. I will go further into the questions who, what, how and who is going to pay it? The first question is: who should be compensated? You can take this one very formally. Then you say: only the objectors. Lawyers say this statement is sustainable. But does it make it probably legal to defend, so does it justify the proposition? Because even those who have not objected have violated fundamental rights. How does the Secretary of State view this? And what are we going to compensate for: the levy on savings or also bad profitable investments? The savers are first with us. They've been dealing with barely any return for years. We really find investors a more difficult category, because many of them have been able to achieve high returns, but perhaps not every year. How does the Secretary of State view that? What information does the tax authority have besides bank accounts available on other income and capital gains in box 3? This can be solved by means of a counter-proof system, but this in turn has consequences for the next question, namely how. The compensation in box 3 must be completed within six months. But what is still feasible for the Tax Administration these days? See media reports on jubelton and VAT on fruit and vegetables. Does the Secretary of State also examine easier compensation approaches, for example to have the Tax Administration recalculate the box 3 tax on savings on the basis of 0% return, and pay out the overpaid? Would such a solution be feasible and legally sustainable? I also welcome the comment in last night's letter that the Secretary of State also attaches great importance to execution tests. Mr. Chairman. Who's gonna pay for this? You can occasionally pass compensation amounts into the public debt, but we also have budgetary rules that state to seek cover for the same type of tax, in this case assets. In doing so, we feel strongly about increasing the contribution of the strongest shoulders in proportion. In this respect, how does the Secretary of State view the dividing line between box 2 and box 3, with a view to non-entrepreneurship? We ask the Secretary of State to submit a number of different proposals for coverage to the Chamber for the Spring Note, so that we as a Chamber can discuss this matter properly. Coverage also raises the question of what the tax will look like in the coming years. We call again for urgent consideration to be given to whether the actual rate of return can not be introduced before 2025. Moreover, the Court is still waiting for the promised contour note on the adjustment of the tax administration's systems to real returns. I'd like to know if it just happened to be in a drawer somewhere. We would like to see emergency legislation as much as possible in line with actual return. Finally. It's a complicated puzzle. We'll share that with the Secretary of State. How is he going to involve the Chamber until the final decision is taken? What milestones does the Secretary of State see in this process as relevant in order to pull the net from the Chamber in the interim? We believe that this aspect is essential in this process. It's an important file and it's about billions. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u96	Thank you. A final question from Mr Alkaya, SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u97	I welcome the CDA's question as to whether the introduction of tax on actually achieved returns can not take place before 2025. But let's be realistic. If we're optimistic, maybe it'll be 2024 or maybe even sooner if we're really lucky. In the meantime, something else will have to happen. Is it possible for the CDA to discuss this, too, I have also asked the Secretary of State for the fact that the jubelton will be reduced as far as possible next year? If abolition can only take place in 2024, can we do as much as possible next year, so that we can get something from the wealthy?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u98	Yes, it is negotiable for us to abolish the jubelton earlier, provided that it is systemically possible. I have doubts about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u99	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Stoffer of the SGP. Thank you, Mrs Van Dijk. I call Mr Stoffer, Mr SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u100	Mr. Chairman. I am also speaking on behalf of BBB, also on behalf of Mrs Van der Plas. I would, of course, like to welcome the Secretary of State, on behalf of Mrs Van der Plas. Mr. Chairman. A heavy thunderstorm is usually seen coming a long way. First you see some grey clouds, but then it starts to blow more and more and you start to notice from a little rumbling in the distance that the thunderstorm bursts in all intensity. Also that statement about box 3 didn't come as a thunderbolt in the clear sky. You could see it coming from miles away. The warnings weren't from the sky. It's been code red for years. Let us also say in concrete terms that the cabinet is now facing a serious problem. But the biggest problem with the SGP is that many savers have been paying far too much tax for years. That problem has been pushed forward for far too long, so the cabinet now gets the lid on the nose. That is why compensation is urgently needed. The SGP believes that not only the objectors should be compensated, but also those who have not objected but who have wrongly paid far too much tax. They also need to get their money back. Mr. Chairman. Last year, the Advocate General issued an opinion. I asked the then Secretary of State to anticipate this ruling. That's what the Secretary of State said. My question is what was actually done between the opinion and the recent ruling. Mr. Chairman. The Secretary of State does not make final decisions in the short term. The risk of periodic penalty payments, for example, is taken up, as can be seen in the letter. In itself, I understand that. Good and well-balanced decision-making is needed here. But at the same time, savers cannot wait much longer. My questions are as follows. When will savers get more clarity? How can the process be accelerated even further? What are the additional costs of this delay? The compensation will also create a significant gap in the budget. How much does the Secretary of State estimate this financial damage? However, the cabinet spends so much money that I still know a few posts where to get the money. In any case, money will have to come from somewhere in the long term. My question is what possibilities are being considered by the cabinet. As far as the SGP is concerned, we do not deposit that account with the ordinary saver. Does the Secretary of State recognise that a tax on real returns will give some people a higher tax, because their real return is higher than what they are used for? The SGP is also open, let me emphasise this, to the super-rich in the Netherlands, we still have to talk about its definition, and that is not easy to burden a little more heavily on their actual return. Mr. Chairman. The judgment of the Supreme Court is clear. For the flat-rate scheme valid from 2017, there is no sufficient justification. This is something the SGP has been saying for years: the levy on capital is unfair. The call for a tax based on real returns has been loud for years. Last year research was carried out into the practical feasibility of a tax based on real profitability. That research offered opportunities, especially for savers. As a result, a motion from me was adopted to increase the feasibility even further. I would like to hear what has been done with this motion and what concrete steps are being taken to finally achieve that tax on real returns. As far as we're concerned, it shouldn't be there until 2025. That tax should have been there by now. I'll leave it at that, Mr. Chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u101	Thank you. I shall now give the floor to Mr Van Houwelingen of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u102	Mr. Chairman. Collecting taxes on income that the taxpayer has never received is theft. Nevertheless, the Tax Administration has for years committed theft through the capital yield levy. Savers that did not achieve a return, because the ECB pushed the interest rate to zero, still had to pay tax on that non-reward. It is as if in the Middle Ages the baron has to pay the farmer two bags of grain each year, but because of a crop you have no grain, says: you have to deliver those two bags, otherwise your head will go off. The previous cabinets knew this, but they just wanted to raise 4 billion from the saver every year, without the government having to pay for it. For, while the citizen was no longer receiving interest, the State was no longer required to pay interest on new sovereign debt. That's how the knife cut for the state on both sides. I don't pay anymore and you pay, laughed at the Treasury farmers and citizens satisfied. The citizen was killed twice: he had to pay tax on interest that he did not receive and his pension fund, which also received no interest, could not index his pension. That's crazy! It would be what if entrepreneurs gave up a fictitious profit at the Tax Office. We are holding this debate today in response to a ruling by the Supreme Court, because the Supreme Court also considers that this burden on a fictitious income, which simply does not exist, cannot be imposed. What is not possible for technical reasons, as the Secretary of State's letter of June last year shows, is taxing the real return. As far as FVD is concerned, this means that there is only one simple and fair solution: taxing a return that is fictitious, but at the same time so low that it can always be achieved minimally. As far as we are concerned, such a return is always below the savings rate. Under the current circumstances, with sometimes even negative savings rates due to the extremely broad monetary policy of the ECB, this would mean that no tax is levied on assets in box 3. That is only fair, if only because of the same low interest rates, pensions have been slowly eroded for years. At the same time, the wealth of savers, because of the currently very high inflation rate, was today again on the news worth less every year, in purchasing power. This unfair inflation tax is currently affecting unilaterally savers, who see the value of their assets, on which tax has already been paid, evaporate a little more each year. And, if the government taxes in this way rather than in a devious way, which had to be corrected by the highest judge, we still have an advantage. The Minister of Finance must be behind Klaas Knot in order for the ECB to stop its monetary frenzies, which have been pushing interest rates and driving inflation for years. It's about time. As far as the FVD is concerned, therefore, with the currently extremely low and sometimes even negative savings rates, there is no tax on capital in box 3. Moreover, not only the approximately 80,000 savers and investors who have appealed against the fictitious rate of return must be compensated, but all the estimated 2 million Dutch who have wrongly paid this tax. It cannot be that only those who literally and figuratively have the ability to bring a lawsuit against the State will be compensated for taxes unduly paid. Now that the court has ruled, it is important that all Dutch who have been robbed by the State be repaid. All of them, Mr President, not just those who have objected. That's how it's supposed to be in a rule of law. Finally. Equity, such as savings, is one of the pillars of a free society. It makes citizens independent of and resistant to the State. The runaway Dutch tax culture in general and the fictitious and excessive load of capital in particular undermines this independence and resilience of Dutch people. That is a very bad thing for us, because the State is there for the citizens and not the other way around.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u103	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Van Raan, Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u104	Mr. Chairman. Once upon a time, not so long ago, it was normal in our country for everyone to contribute to the distribution of prosperity as they were able. But with the fictional returns in box 3, that's going to slide. During the three Rutte Cabinets, the capital gap in the Netherlands remained large. 10% own 60% of the assets. Sander's program "Sander and the Gorge" by Sander Schimmelpenninck is a good illustration that even the wealthy begin to feel a little uncomfortable. The problem is that in the same period the Tax Administration has been hit in some kind of state of deconfiture. In recent years, more than 5,000 FTEs have left the Tax Administration with a golden handshake, which has cost us 700 million euros and left deep traces in the tax administration's implementation options. The Tax Administration itself was then in such a depravable state that it had to be placed under curate and that the artery of the state budget suffered from a serious infarct. That brings us to the current situation. Issues such as the abolition of the jubelton........................................................................................................................................................................................................ In addition to the more than 700 million that the Tax Administration is crippling, there is a threat of a 5 billion noose because of the invented returns that investors have been able to pay in the last few years but which led savers to severe hollowing out of their savings. This is not only unfair to those who objected in time, but at least as unfair to those who were fit for unfair taxation and who also failed to object. Anyone who has missed a deadline from the Tax Administration knows how uncomfortable the Tax Administration can deal with such failures. But the Tax Administration itself claims an almost endless leniency. It is as if you are calling the Tax Phone now and have to wait until 2025 until extremely necessary and urgent legislation has been implemented. My colleagues from the Party for Animals in the First Chamber tabled a motion last December to remove the tax on fictitious returns as soon as possible. The entire coalition voted against. Apparently, the cabinet does not consider it important enough to correct injustice found by the judge, as we have seen before and still see in the supplementing affair. I would like to respond to this observation and, above all, to the commitment to speed up that process in a reasonable manner, as my colleague Mr Van Dijk from the CDA asked. The wealth inequality, which only grows due to the failure of the Tax Administration, needs to be restored. If there is a setback of 5 billion by restoring unfair fictitious returns, then that amount should not be charged to those who are already on the wrong side of wealth, or the Parade of Pen, as my colleague De Boer has said so beautifully. Now I'm making a mistake. I mean colleague Nijboer. He is from Ten Boer, his name is Nijboer and he has explained very nicely what the Parade of Pen means.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u105	And Mrs. Inge van Dijk is from the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u106	I mean, I would have mentioned that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u107	I think you mentioned Mr Van Dijk of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u108	Apologies: from the CDA. That amount must of course be charged to the people who seem to be ashamed of that power inequality and their position in it. That is why the Party for Animals supports the Nijboer Act that we like to submit, which makes the lives of the wealthy barely less pleasant, but which can ease the lives of people who can live more and more difficult. Protecting the most vulnerable from the alleged right of the strong is why the Animal Party was established and why Mr Nijboer's proposal was supported. We look forward with interest to answering the questions and to the voting behaviour of the progressive forces in the coalition. It cannot and must not be the case that the gap can continue to widen and that, for reasons of coalition interests, no action is being taken against it. The separation between power and inability must be reduced. This legislative proposal is a promising and workable initiative for this purpose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u109	Thank you, Mr. Van Raan. Then I give the floor to Mr Grinwis, Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u110	Thank you, Mr President. Where did you get a small savings account in the Netherlands? That's right, starting with a big savings account. That is actually the brief summary of the discontent that has been pouring into Parliament's mailboxes loud and clear for years. Under the guise of levying returns, fiction was stacked on fiction, causing savers to be seriously deficient. The answer to date is: we are increasing tax-free capital in box 3, from €25,000 to €30,000, to €50,000 and later even to €80,000 or €160,000. Every time we agree that we are really going to tax on a real return basis. The coalition and the coalition agreement, whose ink is hardly dry, are the most concrete: in 2025 it is time, ice and again serving, if the ICT of the Tax Administration makes it. Whether those 900 ICT applications of the Tax Administration can handle it all, hung and hanged like a sword of Damocles above the formation, above the Chamber and above our country. For example, something as simple as abolishing the jubelton, an increase in inequality, can not be done immediately or by 2023, but only in 2024. Is that really true, Secretary of State? And to what extent is the Hoge Raad's midship torpedo, which sank box 3, another threat to implement agreements and improvements in the tax system in good time because the capacity and ICT in the Tax Administration are not sufficient and can only be used once? Mr. Chairman. The fact that the Supreme Court has sunk the already non-seaworthy and grim box 3 is beyond doubt, as witnessed by the immediate suspension of taxes on capital. This ruling not only leads to the mandate to do justice to savers and to the restoration of a reliable government when it comes to the imposition of fair taxes on assets........................................................................................................................................................................................ This emergency solution must, of course, be feasible for the Tax Administration..................................................................................................................................................................................................... Now that box 3 is broken, that is a good reason to look at power more widely. Precisely because the urgency is high and despite time constraints, we have to ask and answer fundamental questions such as: what kind of tax do we want to levy, with what legal basis? So that goes beyond just getting the current box 3 back in the air. This includes box 2: beating all kinds of tax constructions, heirs and gifts, houses and rents. Is the Secretary of State gonna look at it that way? I have the impression that he does and that he doesn't want to lay the bill on workers with no assets, no savings, shares or real estate. And what's executable by when? If we cannot speed up the introduction of taxation on the basis of real returns, should we indeed resort to a simple capital tax in the meantime? Or is it still conceivable to return to a variant on the old fiction of 2001? How does the Secretary of State view this? What is really feasible in the short term? I take it the Secretary of State isn't looking for a political trick. His words in his maiden speech in the Eerste Kamer of late 2015 I quote: "The simplicity has been replaced by a complexity with many mathematical formulas that no taxable person can tie to. Welcome to the wonderful world of Willy Root Wiebes!" It clearly stated that it must be legally robust, with an eye for small savers. Mr. Chairman. From the emergency link to be established, I would like to come to the question of compensation. The state attorney states that the ruling of the Supreme Court does not legally force the government to reduce its own resources, but what does the Secretary of State think about this in the light of justice? Surely fundamental rights have been violated by many hundreds of thousands of people? Does a good reliable government not mean that citizens, that savers, can trust that the right will be restored in a fair manner, despite the occasional change in I believe the Tax Collection Act 2016? And then I would like to mention the probably persistent implementation practice in an overly narrow interpretation not even as an argument. Mr. Chairman. My final question is whether it is possible to prevent side damage when it comes to resolving this, when it comes to compensation. I am thinking, for example, of the possibility that cloaked power that has been retrieved could escape the dance. So far in the first term, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u111	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Eppink of JA21. Then we conclude with Mr Omtzigt. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u112	Mr. Chairman. First of all, let me congratulate the Secretary of State on his appointment to this position, a position that has a high rotational speed. Let me also congratulate him on the fact that he warned as a senator at the end of 2016 about the major problems with box 3 and the adjustment that took place on 1 January 2017. I always appreciate historical honesty. With prophetic wisdom of a senator, he suggested adjustments at that time, but the Cabinets Rutte II and III continued to mess around. Fortunately, on 24 December last year, the Supreme Court declared this system of capital efficiency tax contrary to the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights. The Advocate General at the Supreme Court has already spoken of a form of theft. A harsh but correct judgment. Tens of thousands of Dutch people with a capacity of €50,000 or more are therefore entitled to compensation. After all, they have been robbed and feel the same way. My group, JA21, believes that the State should be generously or fully compensated for all these citizens who have been paying too much illegal property return tax since 2017. Does the Secretary of State agree with me? JA21 received several hundred letters from people in distressing situations, among them many elderly people with an AOW benefit that had saved money for old age. Save money as a supplement. They lived there as an apple for thirst. Whole generations have grown up with the idea that saving is good. As far as I'm concerned, too. But actually, debt-making had already gotten better. Every year the tax authorities came to take an ever bigger bite out of their savings. Older people find that their AOW benefit is not indexed, while other benefits are. Inflation eats away their income. And then the IRS comes with tax theft! It's really antisocial. We go back to the situation where for many people "old" becomes "poor." Small savers must therefore be at the forefront of compensation. The cabinet is arguing about how big the compensation should be and where the money should come from. When it comes to the EUR 60 billion for climate and nitrogen, it is impossible to do so at once. The cabinet is throwing money that is better used to compensate the victims of this scandal. D66 proposed to increase the burden on wealthy citizens and to finance a billion-dollar compensation with that money. That's cheating again, 'cause that's a cigar out of its own box. That's theft only twice. Around 1.3 million people are thus victims of this form of theft by the Advocate General. The principle of equality, the basis for the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights, therefore requires that all these people have the right to return their illegally deprived money. Right to right recovery! Does the Secretary of State agree? I would also like to ask the Secretary of State about the ruling of the North Holland Court on 7 January 2022, so this year, that people who have objected late should not be prevented from recovering adequately. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u113	Thank you. There is an interruption by Mr Van Houwelingen of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u114	Mr Eppink rightly states, I think, that inflation can also be a threat to savings and therefore to savers. My question is whether he recognises that the ECB has a major role to play in this and that the massive reprint of millions of euros by the ECB is a threat to our savers.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u115	Yes, I can stay within my speaking time; it was not up yet. That's right. The broad money policy of the European Central Bank has led to inflation and very low interest rates. It was kept very low, too. That was good for Italy, but it's bad for our savers. That is the system that exists within the euro area: that one part of the euro area needs, as it were, to catch up with another part of the euro area. It is a problem that has not been created in the Netherlands, but that has come from Europe because of the fact that we are in monetary union.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u116	I agree with you, but shouldn't you logically argue for a nexit? What is a different solution to this than to get out of the euro and hence out of the European Union?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u117	I wouldn't be for that. I would be more in favour of ensuring that these countries reform, reduce expenditure on southern Europe and compensate the people who suffer from it. You say you want to get out of the European trading system completely. I believe that we have talked about this a number of times in the past. The disadvantages are greater than the benefits, because we, as a trading country, need a large common market.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u118	My last interruption. You say that for you the benefits are greater than the disadvantages. Do you have faith in these reforms? Do you think that the euro can be saved with reforms? Now, ten years after that, we have these problems all the time. Do you think that staying in the euro will ultimately prevent inflation from rising so high that savers will lose a large part of their assets?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u119	Mr Van Houwelingen asks a lot of questions: what if, what if. I can't answer all that. In any case, membership of the European Union is better for the Netherlands at the moment, for our trading position, than to say: we are walking away and we are leaving the euro area.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u120	Thank you, Mr. Eppink. I shall now give the floor to Mr Omtzigt. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u121	Mr. Chairman. In 2015, 2016 I was in agreement with the Secretary of State who is here. We had a similar position and we both hated the fact that taxes were levied with a fiction on fiction. If you tax based on multiple fictions, you end up taxing income that is not enjoyed. And if you tax income that isn't enjoyed, then the judge shoots it. That was clear at the time. Now we're in a debate here tonight. In two minutes I cannot tell you exactly what is to be done, but I would like to have a proposal from the government on how it intends to solve this thorny issue and how big this problem is. Because the problem is big in money; the problem is very big in the coalition, which has quite different notes here. The choir is not exactly in harmony, if I may say so. Mr. Chairman. And what are the parties doing here in this House of Representatives? They're coming up with new fictions. There are parties here who think you can tax 5% on assets. Well, capabilities are kind of liquid and moving fast to another country. There are parties here that think you can get the money back from the one you have to pay it back to. That's where a judge usually goes through a line. And there are parties here who have the fiction that the tax authorities can do something complicated. I'd like to help them out, too. Then take this chance, grab it. Mr. Chairman. There's another really weird thing about capital taxation, and that's real estate. We have a special tax of €1,000 per year on rentals that will be abolished, but isn't yet............................................................................................................................................................................................. So pay attention: on your own property you have the addition of the property value, but at the moment you have no tax on the second house or the holiday home. If you sell an expensive property, you don't have to pay rent tax. If you rent a cheap property as a corporation, you have to pay the landlord's tax. This leads to expensive rentals and a totally disturbed housing market. Set it straight. Use this to make sure that people can buy one more home and not go completely crazy. Does the government want to have a plan drawn up for a committee? Something good's gonna come out of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u122	Unfortunately, Mr. Ephraim, you have no more interruptions. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. I suggest we suspend until 7:00, including dinner break. I'm gonna take a look at the Secretary of State. Is that gonna work? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u123	The next item is the debate on the ruling of the Supreme Court of 24 December 2021 on box 3. I ask the Members to take their place again. We're gonna start with the Secretary of State's first term. I have agreed with Members that they may address six questions or comments to each other. The Secretary of State will first indicate which topics he will deal with. He began with a general introduction and asked for that introduction to be kept without interruptions. I think that's fine. Then you can make your interruptions. I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u124	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll start with the introduction. Then I have the following blocks: the ruling of the Supreme Court, recovery plus coverage, the emergency legislation and the future of box 3. After that, I have some other questions. Although the reason for this debate presents a major challenge to the cabinet, I am pleased to be able to discuss it with the Chamber today. The ink of the coalition agreement was barely dry when the judgment of the Supreme Court of 24 December of this year appeared. That ruling has far-reaching consequences. Firstly, it affects many citizens, taxpayers, in box 3, but it also has a huge impact on the Tax Administration in terms of implementation and it has the necessary budgetary consequences. Providing appropriate restoration of justice and a solid system for the future, based on capacity, which is feasible and ensures that citizens concerned take care of as much as possible, are the top priority for me. I want to cut it in three, if you don't mind. Through this ruling of the Supreme Court, we have something to solve in the period 2017 to 2021. We now live in 2022 and in 2022, 2023 and 2024 we also have a problem. The third period starts after 1 January 2025. I would like to say a few words about history. In tax legislation, you always see certain pendulum movements. Box 3, the taxation of flat-rate return, was presented as something new in 2001, while the legislation said: that was actually a proposal from Finance Minister Pierson from 1894. Why do I say that? The reason why Box 3 was introduced in 2001 and the boxing system was due to the fact that taxes on income and capital taxes were coming to an end between 1964 and the end of the 1990s. Why did that end? Because in the old Income Tax Act of 1964 only the direct return was taxed read: interest, dividend, rent minus costs... but capital gains were not taxed. So what happened? Income taxed in principle was converted into untaxed capital gains. That's what got the money out of it. At that time, you also had the interest deduction. As a result of the interest deduction, there was actually less and less tax on capital income. That's one. Two, there was a capital tax. Only, that wealth tax didn't pay you if you were 80% or 68% of total capital tax at first it was 80%, later 68% of income tax and capital tax paid. So what happened? An income of zero was created, inter alia by interest deduction, so there was no capital tax. We could still do that back then. Those who did have to pay that capital tax, at least some of them, felt it was so high that they crossed the border. That was the reason to enter box 3. Box 3 is a power load. It's not formal, because it's in the Income Tax Act. It has thus been a contraction of taxing income from capital and is perceived as a capital tax. This 4% flat rate was seen as a risk-free real return based on the average effective return on government loans over the period 1984-2001. In the meantime, we've been so many years. What happened on 1 January 2017? They said goodbye to that 4% flat rate. That was also logical, because interest rates were now so low that the risk-avoiding investor never achieved that 4%, but a lower return, at that time perhaps 1%. Then the legislator felt it was necessary to say two things, namely: "We are going to step away from that forfait, and we are going to introduce a fiction, depending on the height of your ability. Up to a ton we assume you're going to save two thirds and put a third in investments, shares, bonds or real estate. From a tonne to a million, we assume that you invest 80% in shares, in more risky real estate or bonds at the time, there was still a capital injection and 20% savings. And above a million, we assume the fiction that you invest everything in stock." The case of the Supreme Court is precisely about the situation in which someone says: yes, but wait, I did not invest 80% in shares and 20% in savings; I invested 80% in savings and 20% in shares. In that case, which is actually very pure, the Supreme Court said that this is contrary to the ECHR, to Article 1 of the Protocol, to the right of ownership, and that it is also discriminatory. Because why would someone have to pay more taxes than someone who actually has 80% in shares? I am not going to talk about the past, but I think it is important to have said this, because that is why we have a problem now. The judgment of the Supreme Court has clarified this case, but the question that arises is: what is the real return? That is why we have also asked for advice from a number of external parties, and shared it with your Chamber immediately. The Supreme Court speaks of'real return'. Is that just the direct return: rent and dividend? Or is that also the realised and unrealized gains? That interpretation has a lot of implications for what you're about to do in the recovery operation. For if it were to be so that the overall return would not be assessed, this judgment would have far more serious consequences than just the situation of the case. Because if we look at the past few years, of course we see differences. But if you've invested in shares, you must have invested very badly if you haven't made that flat-rate return that's in the law. That goes for real estate, too. In short, when we talk about the recovery operation, I am going to talk about it later, and that is a very important question. That is also a choice that needs to be made.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u125	I'll see if you're at the end of your introduction.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u126	I would like to make one more point. But, as far as I'm concerned, interruptions are fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u127	Yeah? You sure you don't have a problem with that? You requested it, but Mr Alkaya cannot wait until the introduction is complete.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u128	No, because this is an important point when we look back. How did we end up at this embarrassing point? There has certainly been a majority in this Chamber since 2015 in order to tax actually achieved returns. There are different interpretations for what that is. I get that. But it doesn't look like anything happened. It seems that nothing has happened for seven years to tax that actually achieved return. Does the Secretary of State consider that sufficient efforts have been made over the last seven years by the government to meet the wishes of society and parliament, and thus also to prevent this ruling from being passed by the judge?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u129	If you'll allow me, I'd like to refer to the Supreme Court's ruling. Because there is also a recital that is very special. That might be an indirect answer. The Supreme Court says, quite frankly, that nothing will happen to that real return between 2015 and 2025. That is the answer to the question. This is a statement by the Supreme Court as to whether or not the legislator has done and how long it has lasted.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u130	I specifically ask for an appreciation from the Secretary of State. I have asked, certainly in my own contribution, for an apology on behalf of the government. Referring to the judge is one thing, but how does the Secretary of State look at that on behalf of the government?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u131	This judgment is special, also for the reason that it is given directly. It has become immediately applicable law. That hardly ever happens; I've had it checked out. In history, it may have happened four times. Then it's about, let's say, less major, less big business. As a new Secretary of State, I don't think it makes any sense to apologize here for what previous Cabinets have done or haven't done. I am simply confronted with the consequences of this judgment. I said what I said. I would like to take the Chamber to the solutions on the restoration of justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u132	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u133	Still, about the history of wealth tax. In doing so, I will answer Mr Nijboer's contribution and, in fact, the question put to me by Mrs Maatoug, namely: are you looking at our proposal with an open eye? I just heard the proposal. I think it's important, if you have a wealth tax, so I just said that to always combine it with a property income tax system. At least so far it has always been in those countries that still have it. At present, these are France, Norway, Switzerland and Spain, when it comes to Europe. The capital tax is actually a supplement to that. Liechtenstein is an exception; that is the only country that only has a capital tax. So yes, in other words: there are, of course, many hooks and eyes on such an alternative. I also said that the current box 3 is a power load. So you should see if you can find solutions within the existing system. I have also heard Mr Nijboer say: 1 January 2025 is not going to work either. So you want something that can be introduced faster. Now I'm taking a small advance, because this is about the property tax and I want to link it to that historical link. In fact, we are also talking about the situation of the emergency legislation and the new legislation. In that respect, we're going to look at all the options and, as you asked us to, we're going to look at them with an open view. Of course we're looking with an open sight. At the moment I am not making a single statement on whether I am in favour of it or against it, but it would be very strange to exclude options at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u134	I believe that I am also speaking on behalf of the SP and GroenLinks when I say that we have no objection at all to a real rate of return. In fact, the whole Chamber has been voting in favour of this for about ten to fifteen years. It's just not gonna happen. That is also the background to this proposal. So if we can do that in conjunction with elements of that system and a capital tax, then I would like to take a look over my shoulder, but we have of course had some discussions in advance on this initiative legislative proposal. I think it would be really good to continue to involve these great assets in taxation. That's what Secretary of State shares, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u135	Yes, but there are other alternatives. That's how I understand you. You've thought about it. We are, of course, also thinking a lot. Let's be clear about that. But an alternative, which we will come back to in the Chamber, is of course one of the speakers who has also mentioned that you will find the solution in the existing box 3. That has to do with the basis, for example. You have a few buttons that you can turn on: the base, the charge-free power and the rate. We'd like to get back to that when we've done our homework. I will say a little more about this later.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u136	I really appreciate this elaborate introduction. If you hadn't been here, a lecture hall would have fit you. First of all, I'm not a lawyer and I've had to go to a lot of trouble to get it. And then you still don't get it. I hear the Secretary of State say, and so I understood the judgment, that the legislator in box 3's history has sought to achieve different goals, and that there is a material element of that capital tax, but in the ib sphere; that is also useful for the treaties. My question is this. Does the Secretary of State think that in future, close to the line we just got from him, so in box 3, it is useful to explain as legislator that the purpose is: to levy a capital tax when it comes to the issue of ownership?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u137	That's a good question, but if you don't mind, we'll come back to it when we have the options on the table. Of course, it's a fair question. Of course, it depends on the development of the options and choices you make. But if you ask me purely theoretically and from the point of view of purity, instead of saying "I have a material wealth tax but I call it an income tax," you would have to tax capital income and add a capital tax. You also have the choice to do a separate power tax. And these are really things that we need to think a little more deeply about. Mr. Chairman. Then, if I may, I'd like to go to the first block. I have, of course, already referred to the judgment of the Supreme Court. I have already explained, and several speakers have also pointed out, that it is a very special judgment. And the reason why the Supreme Court has said that it has a direct legal effect is not that the Supreme Court thinks so, but that it is contrary to the European Convention on Human Rights. If Article 1 is infringed, it is so far-reaching that it will have direct legal effect. This means that we are facing a major issue right away. First, I'm gonna deal with the case myself. It's about 2017. Massive objections have been raised for the years 2017 and 2018. That is also what we have written in the written answers. There were 68,000 objectionors through massive objection in 2017. That was 50,000 in 2018. You also saw the advice we asked Pels Rijcken. That's just a very sec that if you have a massive objection, you're gonna have to make a statement within six weeks. Why is that so special? This is regulated in a different way in the law than when you or I submit an objection to the tax inspector, so that he may take more time if necessary. It's not endless, but he can take more time. We can't do that with a massive protest. You're gonna have to rule in six weeks. The next question is what should be in the verdict. Does that have to be a highly motivated statement, and you also explain how you're going to shape the restoration of the law? No, that's what the legislator said: if you rule on massive objections within six weeks, you'll have six months to implement that ruling. And that judgment is to state that it is well founded or unfounded. You will understand that we have little choice in this situation. The judgment is very clear, so that will be the case in the Cabinet. Six weeks it will be on 4 February, so that will be a valid statement of six months' worth of further implementation. In the letter you received last night, of course, you also read that, given the fact that we need to take a little more time to think through the questions that have been asked, we have to ask ourselves the following questions. Does this mean that it only applies to the objectors, or does this mean that the taxable persons who were in a situation exactly similar to that of the case, but who did not object and therefore paid tax, will also be satisfied? That's what we're gonna find out. Here too, advice has been requested from Pels Rijcken. That's what you've been given. One speaker pointed out that this was actually about not having to do it legally. Let me say it in a technical way: a taxpayer can make a request for a reduction of his own motion, but that could legally be ignored by the inspector. We will really come back to that, because it is not just a legal consideration.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u138	Firstly, Mrs Inge van Dijk of the CDA and then Mr Idsinga of the VVD, perhaps.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u139	What is your first reflex on this subject?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u140	What I said was that we have the legal advice of the state attorney. When it comes to a one-to-one situation, one would say, from the point of view of justice and equality, that it should also apply to those who have not submitted an objection but are in a similar situation. That's the first feeling. But then you get the following questions: how much is involved and what exactly are the situations in which, as Mrs Van Dijk pointed out, we have only been spared? Because that has budgetary consequences. That's one. The second is even more important. This can be removed from the tax authorities' systems. I hear a lot here that there is a lot that can't be done, but when it comes to box 3, there are a lot of data to cough up. You have seen this in the figures in the written answers. If you have the situation of someone who's been saving but has also invested in shares, will you or won't you honor it? Of course, we need more time for that. I'm really not gonna say anything about that right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u141	Mr Idsinga, Mr VVD, and then Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u142	This answer has been very carefully and very carefully considered. I appreciate that in itself, but it is also about a large group of people who are in uncertainty and want a little more clarity, also about what is about the timing. I don't need to hear an exact date from you right now, but I'd still like something of a direction. In doing so, the people who are watching at home would be able to get a little more clarity from all those groups I mentioned in my contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u143	I would very much like to continue the dialogue with the Chamber on this subject, also on the basis of a note of direction in which the options and considerations I have just made are shared with you before decisions are taken. Then I'm really thinking about April 1st at the latest. And we should, because we will continue to deal with the objections of 2017 and 2018 at the same time. I can already say that we are also taking 2019 and 2020, because the question of law that the Hoge Raad has answered also lies ahead for those years. A separate procedure for that purpose, which was also stated in the written reply............................................................................................................................................................................................... We want to settle in one go 2017, 2018, 2019 and 2020. Then we will come back to Mrs Van Dijk, Mr Idsinga and others who are quite right to ask a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u144	You mentioned April as your date. That's about sending a directional note to the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u145	Yeah, about the recovery operation. This includes not only the situations of the objectors, if they already object, but also those in a similar situation, who have not objected but have paid taxes on savings income.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u146	First Mr Omtzigt and then Mr Edgar Mulder, PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u147	April is a bit late, because for example the whole box 3 charge for this year has been shut down. So it can't get going either. Apparently, no decision can be taken on provisional attacks, whether or not the tax is at all in place. I would therefore like to have the note a little earlier. I am asking this because there was a note of 24 December on the answer to the parliamentary questions. There were two interesting sentences in there. In one sense, it said that the variants had already been mapped. In the second sentence, it was stated that there is a separate note on implementation techniques and budgetary implications. Could we get those notes by now? Then we'll know about what lines have been on the department for months.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u148	To Mr Omtzigt's question: I was talking about the past, about 2017 to 2020. So I was talking about the situations that are the subject of the judgment and about whether or not to broaden the target group. You are talking about the current year, about the preliminary attacks. We have already said in the first letter that the provisional attacks on 2022 are being imposed. Why? Because a lot of Dutch people need that preliminary attack because they get money back, for example because of the mortgage interest deduction. That preliminary attack has not yet taken account of the judgment. That is not possible either, because the preliminary attacks were sent out around 10 January. In the same letter, we said: when we finalise the attack on 2022, we will of course take account of the judgment, but only after we have established with the Court what the recovery operation and interpretation of the judgment look like, and also the emergency legislation. Then the second, the attack scheme 2021. The main rule is always: if you submit the declaration before 1 May, so in this case before 1 May next, you will have an attack no later than 1 July. We might not be able, as we see it now, to stick to that date of 1 July. And then your question: can't we speed it up? We are going to do our utmost to return to you on April 1st, I said. If we can do it sooner, we'll do it sooner, but we're gonna have to wrap things up and weigh them up.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u149	I also asked if we could get those notes, because it was already ready.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u150	Yes, about those notes, Mr. Omtzigt: I started January 10th and you can imagine that, apart from the day of the swearing-in, I could immediately fill up in this file. Of course, we have a team on it. So there are several notes. I think it is important that you get all those notes when we come with the intended directions, unless you want to sit in my chair now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u151	I didn't have that ambition today. The Secretary of State has occupied several seats that are not enviable, so I leave him fine on that. But the Chamber simply has the right to information. So I'm just gonna get those notes and expect them in a couple of days. It is also reflected in the Article 68 debate. I didn't ask questions more than six weeks ago about which notes of the past few years are there. They won't be delivered for another two months, so after April 1st. That can be done a little faster, because we need it for our thinking too. I'd actually like to receive these two notes by hand, because they're ready.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u152	These are actually two different points to which Mr Omtzigt refers. He refers to notes on the past before 10 January 2008 on which written questions were asked. We answered that. We want to do this seriously, because it's going to take quite a few years. This includes the question: are there notes available regarding box 3 and the actual return and so on? You will, of course, also receive the notes of the past few weeks in the context of the Court's right of information, which I will of course always respect. I immediately shared with the Chamber the opinions of Pels Rijcken and also of the advisers. I was just trying to involve the Chamber in the steps we are taking. I can imagine for myself that the Chamber will receive all the notes before any decisions are taken at the moment when we have finished our note on the directions and for the recovery operation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u153	I'm just asking them to comply with information law. I'll just expect them. I am very pleased that we have had Pels Rijcken's note, but I do hope that this is the very last note ever drawn up by Pels Rijcken for the State. I'm gonna try again with this Secretary of State: you don't want to have a state attorney who's being investigated. I can also quote some professors in the NRC, such as Van Maanen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u154	That's a different discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u155	Yeah, that's right. But I'm just expecting the notes in a week. That's not so complicated considering the right to information.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u156	Okay. Then we go to Mr Edgar Mulder of the PVV and then to Mr Grinwis, Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u157	Let me make sure I heard it right. Is it true that I have heard the Secretary of State say in a sort of first reflex that, apart from the people of the massive resistance, the people who have objected, he also takes all the other people who have wrongly paid? Do they have a completely equal situation? Have I heard that it is possible for the Tax Administration to assess on an individual basis whether a taxpayer has exactly the same ratio in savings, shares, etc.?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u158	What I said was about the case position. That was just saving money. Moreover, there were some other assets, but the Supreme Court found that the actual return was far below the flat-rate return. That's the 80/20 I just mentioned. We're gonna figure out... what you can figure out when you look at the tax bill is what the savings were. That's what the answer to the letter says. Let me put it out of my mind: over a million people have only saved up during the years 2017, 2018. They didn't have any other assets. Then of course you have all the other categories as well. You can also invest in shares, bonds and real estate. That's a rule, too. You can also save and be in shares, bonds and real estate. We really need to find out more precisely, but that data is available at macro level. Why not a counter-proofing scheme? With a different hat on I also argued for it a few years ago and then I got convinced. The introduction of a counter-proof system for those over 2 million people who are still in box 3 is not feasible. We'll get back to that when we talk about the recovery operation. That requires an individual assessment per file. The tax authorities simply can't handle it. That counter-proof scheme would apply to everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u159	Thank you to the Secretary of State for his very careful handling of this. I would also like to thank him for the promised note he will send around 1 April. I would also like to thank the Secretary of State for thinking not only of those who objected and were directly involved in the judgment, but also of those who saved it. That fits in with my contribution. My question is whether he can tell us a little more about what aspects will come back in that note. I assume that these will not only be different variants, but also something like implementing power, implementation capacity. What is wise from the point of view of implementation? What is sensible from a legal point of view? What is wise from the point of view of possible collateral damage? I mentioned in my contribution the example of disguised wealth. A lot has been brought back from abroad in recent years. Of course, we do not want to see too much compensation eventually exempting this type of property. Is there anything in there about the relationship between surcharges and power limits, that sort of thing?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u160	Thank you for this question. There's a lot of digging points. Which group is eligible for recovery? We have just had a brief exchange of views on this. What is legally sustainable? What's feasible? What exactly does it matter for the real return? I have also briefly commented on this. What do we do about box 3 in 2023 and beyond? What is the budgetary impact and how are we going to distribute the burdens that result from it? We're working on mapping all that now. It's a complicated puzzle. Again, we would very much like to involve the Chamber, because it is such an important matter. At least tens of thousands of taxpayers will have to be restored to justice. I have already said a few words about 2021 as regards the attack scheme. Again, the judgment of the Supreme Court is currently in force. This applies to 2021. In accordance with the ruling of the Supreme Court, these declarations and assessment arrangements will have to be dealt with. I have also said that we are talking about huge numbers that the IRS cannot repair manually. So to one of your partial questions I answer that we are looking for a way to do the recovery as much automated as possible. This is ultimately less burdensome for the taxpayer, but he must, of course, recognise something of the law in force in the outcome. That therefore requires very, very much attention from the implementation. Last Tuesday, the Tax Administration gave a technical briefing in this Chamber and this week in the Upper Chamber about the difficult choices that exist in terms of ICT. You also understand that this will require additional ICT capacity, which means that other things will have to be postponed. We'll get back to you on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u161	There is a question from Mr Romke de Jong, D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u162	The Secretary of State says he can come back in April. The Secretary of State also states that for many people the provisional attack is important, because they need it for a surcharge or their mortgage interest deduction. But I'm so curious what 2021 looks like there. Does this only apply to people who have something in box 1 and 2 or does the threshold also apply to people in box 3? For whom does this suspensive effect actually have effect? Will you come back with that in April?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u163	One more time, if you don't mind. I'd like to be very precise here anyway. When we are talking about "preliminary attacks," we are talking about the provisional attacks on the income tax year 2022. They've been imposed. Why? Because those taxpayers often get a refund. This is very important for cash flow. I mentioned, among other things, mortgage interest rates. And we have said that we hope that when we impose the final income tax assessment 2022, that declaration will be filed on 1 May 2023, we will have the solution for dealing with box 3 in 2022, including automation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u164	I'll be sharper. I am also concerned about tax year 2021. What is the State Secretary's view of the levy in 2021 and for whom is the suspensive effect?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u165	That's all right. I would also like to comment on that, but since you mentioned the provisional attack 2022, I started doing so. Tax year 2021 has already been completed. Income tax returns must be submitted before 1 May. If you're not in box 3, it just goes on. Read the interpretation of the judgment on which we come back to you, and I hope we will have it clear by April. We make a reservation as to whether it will be possible to impose this attack on 1 July. Of course, this is especially important for people who get money back. We want to be careful on the one hand, because it's so complex, and we don't want to be too fast and make mistakes because of it. I hope that will be sufficient, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u166	At least you have one more question. Mrs Maatoug van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u167	We now have a debate without knowing what we are going to do. This means that we are by definition talking about how we interpret this tax law, what this means for the tax system and what is technically possible. I understand there's a huge assignment on this Secretary of State's board. I would appreciate it if we could speak more broadly in this debate, because it will soon be April and then we would like to have it legally regulated for this year. We want to understand a little more about you. Hopefully you will take us with you and we will also get those notes so that we can exchange what is thought of and what the consideration is. GroenLinks is not going to stick to that at all, but I do think it is important to make the conversation a little clearer in the consideration. I think this will also help us towards April.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u168	So far, I have spoken in particular about the period 2017-2021. We will of course return to you as soon as possible with ideas on emergency legislation. If we don't do something, two things will happen. A. Every month we lose revenue, and that's gonna be pretty good in the paperwork. B. We cannot give legal certainty to taxpayers. Again, it is more than an intention to involve you very closely. I agree with you, we are still at the first stage of the dialogue we have. I have responded briefly to the plan put forward by Mr Nijboer and which you have also spoken about. Of course, there are also alternatives within box 3 if you want to stay inside box 3. We'll get back to that in time. We're not gonna surprise the Chamber in that respect. And we need to move quickly with this urgent legislation for the two reasons I have indicated. Mr. Chairman. If it's okay, I'll take a closer look at the various questions that have been asked about right recovery. I ended up fluently in that block. Among other things, there was a question from Mr Alkaya and Mr Nijboer about providing restoration of rights for not only those who have objected, but also for others. I've already answered that. We shall, of course, be discussing this in detail. Mrs Van Dijk also spoke about compensation. Can the tax authorities handle the recovery? I would like to comment on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u169	In any case, there is another interruption by Mr Nijboer of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u170	The Secretary of State said: I answered that. He did say something about it, but I don't really think this was an answer. I understand the Secretary of State is actually saying the following. A ruling has been made by the Supreme Court on a very specific group of savings funds only. There may also be similar cases, including those with savings only, or almost only savings. We may all want to compensate them, and that falls into the budgetary consequences. Probably that's not that big and it's not nearly close to it if I've read his memos correctly from that 4.5 billion a year that was the whole box 3 charge in recent years. I am trying to get a sense of the direction we are going after this debate. We can, of course, make statements as a Chamber, but at the end of this debate we would like to know what the Secretary of State is and what we are talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u171	I'd be happy to answer that. The total revenue in box 3 is about 4 billion, 4.5 billion. If you talk about the years 2017 to 2020, just to define it, then in the sausage-wurstcase scenario everyone would get their box 3 tax back. Then you're talking about five times four billion. If you look at the judgment, and we come back to that, I think that's very unlikely. That is why I also said what I said about the overall return. So we'd like to get back to what order of magnitude it is. Yeah, billions. If you limit it purely to the objectors, then of course the amount is less than if you say: we want to treat equal cases equally and the same goes for those who have not objected. I hope that I have been able to give some direction to that at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u172	The ceiling is, of course, five times 4.5 billion unless you also have to pay compensation, but it will not be that crazy. That makes sense. Let me give you a little direction myself. I think it makes sense, given the statement that you're being compensated, whether you'd objected or not, if all you had was savings and you were supposed to have a much higher return. When I look at the sums involved, I see that it amounts to between 600 million and 800 million a year, I think. If you do that five times, you're going to come up at around 4 billion or 5 billion euros, because there will also be a few people who save 95% and invest 5%. In that order of magnitude, I think the problem lies. It helps a lot in the direction of the solution and also in the starting points when D66 says: it has to be reached by the wealthy. Then it's 5 billion, spread over the reign period. 20 billion will then be difficult, on top of what would already come in. So that helps for a directional debate. It's good to get a little sense of what the Secretary of State is thinking.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u173	Again, I'm not gonna stick to that. That would be careless. Mr Nijboer can do the math. That's what I want to say. And that's actually what I'd like to leave for the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u174	In my opinion, this is really the best answer to the questions that have been asked so far. Mr Nijboer can do the math. We'll keep it in. I call Mr Edgar Mulder of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u175	He's an honorable man, the new Secretary of State. About the math and about structural or occasional money. I understand we're going to do something to replace the current arrangement. That goes to the years to come. But if we give people satisfaction for the past few years, that's one-off money. So we could easily get that out, for example, of the nitrogen fund. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u176	I understand the question. There's an occasional problem. This concerns the past years: 2017 to 2021. And we have the problem now, in the present; that is a structural problem of coverage. I'm not going into that cover question right now. So I am not going to answer the question, but I will come back to that, of course, once we have mapped everything out and we can also present it to you with good calculations. Furthermore, in reply to D66's question: yes, I clearly indicated the direction in the written reply. If the problem is on the revenue side, you should solve it on the revenue side. You should then find the solution in the tax type, as much as possible as it says there. I shall come back later to Mr Nijboer's point of view. That is indeed the incidental side, Mr. Mulder. If we are to come up with urgent legislation, then we must also come up with structural cover right away. In other words, we need to start thinking about how we're going to structurally cover a number of billion from wealth income.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u177	There were a few more questions about the theme of recovery.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u178	You're right. I'm gonna speed things up, but I've already answered a lot of questions, to be honest. I also addressed the questions about the IRS. That is by the way the block with by far the most questions. I can see that I have actually answered all the questions. If that's not the case, of course I'd like to hear it. We talked about the cover, too. I would also like to look in particular at Mrs Van Dijk's question on this subject. Then I come to the block of 'poverty legislation perspective'.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u179	It goes very slowly and then suddenly very quickly. My question is about cover. Is box 2 also an option?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u180	I have just answered D66's question. Cover must be found on the revenue side, because on the burden side the problem has arisen, and then on the type of tax involved. Whether or not you are due to box 2 depends, among other things, on how important the budgetary importance is. I'm not going to answer that right now. For the time being, I assume that this can be done in the type of tax where the problem arose.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u181	We just had Mr. Nijboer, who is good at math. Then we talked about "order size" also based on the questions, so if the bill is a little bigger. But I think we can do it with a rather simple yes or no. According to this Secretary of State, does box 2 fall into the same category of policy when it comes to capital and capital charges?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u182	I'm not going to answer that right now, because that's the what-if question. I would very much like to come back to that when we have precisely mapped out whether it is Mr Nijboer's bill or whether it is going to be higher.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u183	It is a bit of a waste of your interruptions, because the Secretary of State clearly states what he will and will not respond to. But it's up to you, Mrs Maatoug.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u184	Then I'll come back to the point I just made. This isn't about "it's gonna be box 2." In our efforts we have tried to help the Secretary of State by indicating lines. It's an incredibly complicated puzzle. The point is, what can we think about? And not: what is it? What are you gonna do? But: could this be part of the options? Do you feel that space? Do you have that space? That's my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u185	If the solution cannot be found in box 3 or an equivalent of box 3, then we will have to look further. That's clear. But I'll get back to you when we get a map. So I'm not gonna say, "Yeah, we're gonna look at that, too." If there's no need, there's no need. If it's necessary, we'll definitely come back to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u186	It has just been found that the satisfaction of those who have been unjustly affected is occasional money and that we can arrange it in a different way than with new taxes. If we look closely at the problem before us, then that is actually also occasional. It is structural, but structural until 2025, because the Secretary of State still says that in 2025 there can be a rate of return on realised capital gains. This means that if legislation is already in place within six months, it will be temporary. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u187	I've already indicated past, present, future. I've dropped a couple of "poverty laws." I also consciously said that the block "presents" is 2022 to 2024. I said that because, of course, I'm looking at the coalition agreement. I have to do that and it says: 1 January 2025 as the date of introduction of a system based on real returns.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u188	If you think about it, you don't have to call that money, EUR 16 or EUR 18 billion, structural over the next four years.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u189	Well, I think it is, because you have to have cover for those years. But let us also have this discussion when we come back with clear directions for the coming years.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u190	Mr President, a question of order. Are these questions about the cover also answered the questions about the jubelton?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u191	No, sorry. With your permission, I'll handle it in the block. Mr Idsinga referred to the counter-proofing system. I have already said something about this and I have already answered it. So yes, as far as that goes... Mr Stoffer referred to a motion he had previously tabled. He asked what happened to that motion. This motion has led to action, because my predecessor has begun preparations for a levy based on real returns. The contours of that system would be sent to you in a contour note before Christmas. This has been postponed in connection with the coalition agreement, but I intend to inform you about this as soon as possible. I keep talking about "solving past and then in the present," but when we start talking about the contours after 1 January 2025... Especially since that note has been for a while... I do make one reservation, and that is that I cannot say here yet that that note goes to the Chamber without any changes. After all, there is now a new cabinet with a new Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u192	Because I am not sure if the block of cover is already closed, I have one more question and I really want to make as few motions as possible, I hope for a commitment. I had asked for a number of different proposals for cover to be submitted to the Chamber so that the Chamber could discuss the substance of the matter. Would you like to respond to that, Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u193	Yes. Apologies. Perhaps I have not been clear enough in the answer I gave to Mrs Maatoug. That has something to do with it. However, that is a very concrete proposal for cover. We will come back to you when we know exactly what we are talking about quantitatively when we talk about the occasional setback, the past. We come up with the structural story and then, of course, with a coverage and multiple coverage options. But that is also, of course, in the Minister's area, and we must, of course, talk about it first in the cabinet. Mr Stoffer has asked for a timetable. I said that we were aiming for 1 April in terms of a better plan for the recovery operation. We are also doing this around the first April in terms of directions for the coming years. In the end, an integral consideration will have to be made to the Spring Note. You or someone else said: I do not want to discuss it when the Spring Note is already there. We want to involve the Chamber very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u194	It's not that I'm married to the counter-proof scheme, especially not. Only, we introduced it as a VVD group a while ago. Then we got the answer that it was socially undesirable. We also got the answer that there were legal hooks and eyes on it. Now I hear from the Secretary of State that it's impossible. That is a different answer than the one we received a few months ago. Is that moving insight or is that something else? I'd like a response.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u195	I suggest... This is a very fair question from Mr Idsinga. I'm not tempted to respond to what was previously communicated. I think it's very important that the Chamber gets a letter about it. Again, I have argued for this with a different hat on myself. We will then have the discussion on the basis of facts and arguments. But implementation-technically, a counter-proofing scheme is not to be done. I can tell you that already.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u196	When can you inform the Chamber by letter?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u197	I suggest in the not too long term, a few weeks. It's gotta be possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u198	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u199	Then I will look at the questions about the budgetary revenue. Mr Stoffer has asked: does the Secretary of State recognize that a tax on real returns will increase the tax for some, because their real return is now higher than what they are used for? Yes, in the case of a future system based on real returns, that is indeed the case. I think that Mr Stoffer is referring in particular to the situations in which people now make a higher return, but are involved in the levy on the basis of a lower flat-rate return.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u200	Behind me, I'm told I can count too. That's right. I'm an engineer, and sometimes you have to do the math. I guess I didn't put it clearly in my text, but it might also indicate a bit of coverage that if you're somewhere... It's not just a hole, but through a system on real return, so was my approach, you also have a part... How big that is, we'll have to calculate. That's for the Ministry to calculate. I hope I won't have to, and Mr Nijboer may not have to. But that indicates for me: you don't only have holes, but you can also cover a piece of what we want with that extra income.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u201	Yes. Then one step back. Where it failed in the past, among other things, was that it was very difficult to estimate what the revenue was based on real returns, because that also depends of course on what real returns you make. Anyway, we'll get back to that. Your point is quite clear. Mrs Van Dijk asked: What information does the Tax Administration have on the assets taxed in box 3 of 2017 and beyond? Let me give you an exact answer. The Tax Administration has data on the amount of assets on 1 January of the tax year, but only partially has returns data. The Tax Administration has good quality information on the interest and savings of financial institutions that have a banking licence in the Netherlands, because they have a duty to re-seigner it. However, this data is not available in the automation processes for taxing income. In short, several relevant data elements are missing, including data on value developments. In 2017, the legislator tried something with that new forfait, but that proved unsuccessful. The Tax Administration also has no insight into the rental income from real estate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u202	I assume that the Secretary of State agrees with me that taxing real returns under conditions can also mean that there are losses that the private or investor may offset. We are now used to rising stock prices and house prices that are only going up, but I come from the world of financial markets and they are unpredictable. Lady luck may turn against you. I assume that means that losses can also be offset.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u203	One of the elements of box 3 was that losses were not deductible. It's a little all in the game. We're gonna think about this very carefully. You are now referring to a situation where you introduce a capital gain tax. Then you will not only tax the direct income, such as rent and dividend minus costs, but also the capital gains. In such a situation, the capital losses are also deductible. You can see that in the countries where they introduced it. That is very risky, because that can also be planned. Then you get situations where people postpone their profits and pull their losses forward. I am certainly not going to say yes to your question, but if we come back on the basis of real returns, we could do so in a box 3 variant, for example. There are also alternatives, e.g. power increase. Mr Ephraim also asked about the alternative of going back to the old system, where, for example, you could revise the risk-free interest rate every five years. In the current market, that would mean zero. That's what he said himself, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u204	This applies to the current market, but we need to look more broadly at the future rather than just at the current market, which is exceptional for all kinds of reasons. That has already been discussed. Of course, this is not a normal interest rate. When the interest rate gets back to normal, mean reversion, we're gonna see completely different markets. Does the Secretary of State agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u205	I agree that the market is unpredictable. When box 3 was introduced in 2001, it was said: "This is the fun box, because who doesn't make 4%? Even the most risk-avoiding investor makes up to 4%." Well, we know what happened after that, so it could be the other way around. I am not going to make any statements about this now, but we will certainly come back to that when the variants are on the table. Mr. Chairman. I'm getting to the other block. Mr Alkiya and Mr Nijboer asked about the jubelton. Mr Grinwis also asked that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u206	You mean Mr. Alkaya.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u207	Oh, sorry. Apologies. I won't do it again. In the coalition agreement, an agreement was made on the jubelton. I understand the question as follows: "Can't it be done sooner? Can't it just be introduced on 1 January 2023?" We have, of course, taken a good look at this in terms of adapting the systems, but I will return to this in writing. I'll see what the opportunities and possibilities are. I do not think it would be good if I now gave a very technical treatise on how this works with the donation tax declaration, because I want you to have a careful answer on that point too. But I understand the question very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u208	Mr Alkaya, SP, and then Mr Grinwis. It was about Mr Alkaya's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u209	I appreciate that. In that letter, would the Secretary of State wish to make a more explicit reference to the question of what are technical impossibilitys, what are capacity considerations, and what are political considerations? 'Cause that's all getting mixed up now. I also feel that these arguments are being shopped, depending on the questioner and the situation. If we get that straight, we can also make a good decision when it really needs to be decided, in the Tax Plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u210	Yeah, I'm really gonna answer as complete as I can.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u211	In conclusion, I would remind you that the coalition agreement does not include 2024 because the political will for 2023 was lacking, but because from the Tax Administration came the answer that it could not be done earlier than in 2024. It would indeed be very nice if that became clear. Last week during the technical briefing it was said: the parameter change can be very fast, but the underlying rules and the declaration cost more effort. It would be very nice if it became clear what really cannot be done before 1 January 2023, whether it is still to be speeded up or whether abolishing the jubelton in the context of the whole problem we are talking about today is a problem at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u212	I understand that this has been the subject of the technical briefing. I say here: you will really have a complete answer, so that choices can also be made in the Tax Plan, as Mr Alkaya suggested just now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u213	I should like to add a further question, along with Mr Grinwis. I am actually a little surprised that we are not in any way establishing a relationship here with the other big challenge that the same tax administration is facing at the moment and which also raises so many problems. That is solving what I would almost call the reverse problem, that of the people from the supplement scandal. If the Secretary of State is going to look at what is possible and at what time, then I would also ask him to consider the burden currently on the Tax Office in relation to that dossier. It is an organization that is already under such pressure right now by solving another immense problem. If you're going to come up with scenarios for this immense problem of a fairly similar nature, then it seems to me that you can't forget that. So I would really like to ask, in fact, to take that into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u214	I understand the question as follows. I have already said that this requires capacity from the I.T. at the IRS. That is where priorities must now be set. That has nothing to do with the payment of the surcharges, because that is also the case with Mr Aukje de Vries and with the red section. I'm responsible for the blue department. But we really will come back to that. Then we will also provide insight into what has gone on in terms of ICT capacity. I have already indicated to you that this should not be at the expense of the recovery operation with the surcharges.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u215	Is that enough, Mrs Simons? Yeah? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u216	Then there was also a question about the passing on of the surcharges. That was a question from Mr De Jong of D66, if I am correct. No? It's right here on my cheat sheet. Ah, it was Mr Grinwis! Okay. Well, the amount of a supplement naturally depends on the collection income, the total income from box 1, 2 and 3. The judgment may therefore continue to apply to the allowances. That's right. We are now investigating the consequences of this process and how to deal with it. We will come back to that when we come back to you with how we are going to further shape the recovery operation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u217	Maybe one more question about the promise about the jubelton. You're coming with a letter. When's the letter coming?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u218	I think that...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u219	In a few weeks?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u220	Yeah, a couple of weeks. We're living February 1st. It must be possible before March.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u221	Yes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u222	I don't know if I'm gonna make some people unhappy right now, but I don't think so. 'Cause that briefing was given last week. Mr Ephraim also asked the question: can the Tax Administration, for example, send a progress report on culture and operational ICT every three months? The IRS sends a progress report to the Chamber every four months. I will continue to do so. It reports on culture and ICT. At the very beginning I addressed the questions on capital taxes in other countries when I went into Mr Nijboer's plan. There was another question from Mr Alkaya.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u223	Would it be okay if the Secretary of State answered all the questions? Maybe your question's in the middle of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u224	It's not an interruption, it's an order point. The Secretary of State said the question had already been answered. But I had asked very specifically about a number of countries and about capital revenues there.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u225	Correct.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u226	Yeah, okay. I understand. I addressed the question of which countries have a capital tax, but your question was another. I cannot give an explicit answer to that now. You said: there are only a few countries left that have lower taxes on capital income than the Netherlands. Or was it higher?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u227	I do not know whether this is an interruption or a clarification of the original question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u228	No, it was a clarifying question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u229	I was going pretty fast, too, so I understand you might not have had the question at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u230	Thank you for this kindness.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u231	My question was whether the Secretary of State could confirm that the charges on capital revenue were higher in the United Kingdom, Norway and Germany than in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u232	I don't have that answer ready. I don't know about that one-two-three out of my head.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u233	Could this possibly be done in the second term?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u234	That could happen in the second term, if that's allowed. Mr Alkaya asked whether this debacle has increased power inequality. Of course, power is charged not only in box 3, but also in box 2 and in box 1. Box 3 is about savings investments. In box 1 it is about its own home. Business capital is not an investment asset in case of significant interest. In box 2, of course, you have business power and a share of investment capital. The final effects on power inequality, of course, also depend very much on the design of the recovery plan that we come up with. So that is what we are going to come back to with concrete proposals. Then the jubelton. Mr Omtzigt asked: would you like to draw up a plan on the distorted real estate market? We're talking box three now. I understand the point very well. Then I think it's about imbalances in the system: the taxation of real estate in box 3, if real estate is in box 2 and if real estate is in box 1. 'Cause those are the three flavors. A first step would, of course, be to go to a system based on real return, which would also tax the real rental income. I think he was talking about the second house, the third house or a vacation home. If that is the case, it is in box 3 and it is already involved in taxation. That alone is not based on real returns, because that is based on a flat-rate return. Of course, that goes just as well as an investor has multiple properties in box 3. So I would very much like to resume this discussion at the same time as we come back with the proposals for the coming years and also for the period after 1 January 2025. Mr President, that is all I have to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u235	This brings us to the end of the first term on the cabinet side. I suggest we suspend for five minutes and then start with the second term on the side of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u236	I give the floor to Mr Romke de Jong. We'll start with the second term on the side of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u237	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I would like to congratulate the Secretary of State, who, in the first debate, has so skilfully given all these answers to the Chamber. Thank you for that. The Secretary of State has a lot to do. That is also clear after this debate. D66 has also been clear about the principles: it must not result in less taxes on capital being levied and we are looking for solutions in the capital domain. It is a big task and we also like to stay in conversation with the Secretary of State about the solutions. Now we look to the future. We have a few points of departure that we would like to make, and for that reason I shall table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Cabinet is considering how to deal with the recent ruling of the Supreme Court on box 3;]] [[Whereas this solution should be fair to savers and not aim to reduce capital charges;]] [[Whereas resolving the box 3 problem offers the opportunity to return to the principle of carrying capacity in the taxation of assets;]] [[calls on the Government to come forward with proposals before 1 April on how to resume the taxation of capital,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Romke de Jong, Mr Inge van Dijk, Mr Idsinga and Mr Grinwis.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35927-94]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u238	This motion is a unique one. It's really great. The ruling of the Supreme Court was of December 24th. We then had the debate here on the declaration of government. The parties that formed the new government knew this problem. They agreed to a coalition agreement and tabled a motion to rebuild the coalition agreement for 5 or 10 billion. So my question is: are we now witnessing a new round of negotiations on the coalition agreement and are we trying to cover it up with this motion for a further six weeks? Or what do I see here? What are we even doing here?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u239	Mr Omtzigt's speech began very nicely. After that, he went the other way pretty fast. What I would very much like to do is to give the Secretary of State a direction to move towards taxation. That's what I do with this motion, nothing more and nothing less.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u240	But this problem was known when we debated the declaration of government here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u241	This problem was known throughout the Chamber. This is a case that's been going on for a long time. We just had a whole debate about it. So it is well known to all of us. And what I'm doing now is trying to give a direction to the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u242	This is just the confession that they made a government agreement that they knew on the day it was defended here, that it needed a billion-dollar adjustment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u243	I do not hear a question, but it is well known to Mr Omtzig that the coalition agreement was concluded earlier than this judgment. So I have to leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u244	Thank you. I give the floor to Mr Alkaya of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u245	Thank you, Mr President. This, in my view, was somewhat like a broad-based debate, in which we should indeed give direction to a solution. And in that debate, the parties on the left have already given direction to his Labour Party, GroenLinks and the SP together with the Animal Party and also Volt, who are affiliated with it. But imagine if it doesn't go that way. Then the Secretary of State says that he is going to look further in the "neighboring areas" of the property tax. To point that in any case, I have at least one motion, and then another. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Secretary of State for Taxation has indicated that a disadvantage in the area of charges should also be taken into account in the budgetary context;]] [[whereas consumer prices are already rising enormously and labour is already being taxed relatively high;]] [[calls on the Government not to increase the burden on labour or consumption,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Alkaya, Mr Nijboer and Mr Maatoug.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35927-95]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u246	My second motion concerns the jubelton, which we also discussed with the Secretary of State. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the exemption from the gift tax up to more than €106,000 when buying or remodeling a house, also known as the "jubelton', will not be abolished until 2024;]] [[whereas, although it is not possible to complete abolition by 2023, a significant reduction should be feasible;]] [[calls on the Government to reduce the jubelton as far as possible by 1 January 2023,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Alkaya, Mr Nijboer and Mr Maatoug.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35927-96]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u247	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. After this debate, I had hoped to understand a little which direction the government wants to take. But I do not understand the direction of the government and the parties to the government, so we will have a debate shortly after 1 April. We have to be careful not to walk into the swamp, so we're constantly being guided by a verdict. For there will be more statements about the next few years, as well as statements by the courts, the Supreme Court and yet again from Strasbourg. So please make a plan and make sure that the way you're going to solve it doesn't become a complete swamp, like with the supplement debate. I have one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the owners of social housing paid much more tax, the landlord's tax, than owners of expensive rental housing;]] [[noting that large foreign investors make large returns and pay little tax;]] [[noting that there are a number of other disruptive elements in the housing tax;]] [[calls on the Government to set up a committee to propose less distorting taxation of real estate and to promote only affordable housing and the first affordable housing;]] [[calls on the government to send the first report to the Chamber before the summer,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Omtzigt.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35927-97]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u248	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Hearing this debate, it may be that the recovery operation might create more work, effort and implementation problems than the whole new system of capital taxation, because there are a lot of dilemmas in it. I'll give the Secretary of State the three directions the PvdA stands for. Then he can take advantage of that towards April 1st. One. Do the same right to all similar cases, whether people have gone to court or not. Two. Try to limit it a little bit to the people who have really been hit, so the people who really have saved up on their own and made a huge return. Three. Find the cover as much as possible, or actually completely, with the wealthy. I am always willing to see if we can find it in box 2, because there too so much goes wrong and there are so many wealthy ones. I'd like to give you those three directions. With regard to the future system, I think that the coalition parties have tabled a good motion that can have a fairly far-reaching impact. We have made a move with a number of parties on how to implement this, so how to regulate load on power more structurally. We make such a statement of explanation and really think about it. But before it's really a law, you can make improvements from all sides. We'd be happy to work on that further.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u249	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Maatoug van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u250	The advantage of left-wing cooperation is that I can simply say: everything Mr Nijboer said! That saves time. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for replying. I am still curious about the answer to the second-term questions. I've been reading back a lot of Acts over the past few weeks. It is not often that we have a fiscalist as Secretary of State, so I would like to give him the following and challenge him with it: let us raise the debate together in this Chamber, even when it comes to the main points. I think we can. There's plenty on our plate. Then my motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that no attacks will be imposed until further notice in box 3;]] [[Whereas this situation may provoke tax arbitrage whereby assets are placed in box 3 from the hope of avoiding levying;]] [[calls on the Government to identify in the short term how the current situation in box 3 can provoke arbitration and propose to counter this and inform the Court of Justice,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Maatoug, Mr Nijboer and Mr Alkaya.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35927-98]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u251	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Three brief motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Given that hardworking citizens have already paid tax on their savings on several occasions and that most European countries do not have capital taxes;]] [[calls on the government to abolish the capital tax in its entirety,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government not to directly or indirectly reclaim the damage and the lost taxes by the ruling of the Supreme Court to the citizen in any way,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government, if the capital tax is not abolished as a temporary solution, to examine the alternative of applying the old system of a flat-rate charge using a market-based risk-free interest rate which may be periodically revised,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ephraim.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35927-99]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ephraim.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35927-100]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ephraim.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35927-101]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u252	I don't quite understand the first motion. It's about a wealth tax. We now have a capital efficiency tax that has been flagged back by the judge. Does Mr Ephraim say that we do not want any taxes on capital? Or does he also support what the Chamber has consistently said, namely: taxing actual gains on capital? Is he still behind that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u253	The answer is very simple. In principle, we do not want any property tax already paid on it, nor do we want any tax. If that is not possible, then I am not crazy when it comes to political reality and yet it has to be taxed, it has to be on the basis of the real return.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u254	Thank you. Then Mr. Edgar Mulder. Or not yet?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u255	Just a minute, Mr. Chairman. If my proposal is technically difficult, as an intermediate form, I have already said that the old system with some horns and phones might be another option.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u256	I'll take a look at Mrs. Simons from BET1. No? Then I look at Mrs. Inge van Dijk from the CDA. I'll give her the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u257	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I thank the Secretary of State for answering the questions. I welcome the commitment on the various proposals for coverage. Actually, I haven't had one more commitment. I conclude with the question of how the Chamber will be involved in the final decision-making process. The Secretary of State indicated that you will be very strongly involved. I also asked what milestones the Secretary of State sees. I interpreted 1 April as a milestone, because it will clarify who will or will not be involved. There is also a milestone on the coverage proposals and there is a milestone to the Spring Note. I'm curious about that. I would still like an answer from the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u258	Thank you. Then I look at Mr Stoffer of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u259	Mr. Chairman. I actually have a bit of the same question as Mrs Van Dijk from the CDA. I put the question in a motion, so perhaps that way will at least give us the information question. The motion reads as follows: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there has been a wide-ranging desire for a tax in box 3 on the basis of real returns for years, but that there is no concrete proposal yet;]] [[Whereas this levy should be introduced as quickly as possible on the basis of actual returns and should therefore be taken up as a matter of urgency;]] [[calls on the Government to introduce the capital tax as soon as possible on the basis of actual returns;]] [[invites the Government to keep the Chamber regularly, but at least once a quarter, informed of the progress of this dossier,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Stoffer.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35927-102]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u260	Finally, I would like to thank the Secretary of State for his expert answer to the questions. I wish him much strength and wisdom in everything he has on his plate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u261	Thank you, Mr. Stoffer. I give the floor to Mr Van Houwelingen, Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u262	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Two short motions, in line with what was said in the debate, I think. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government not only to compensate the objectors but all those who have been affected by the fictitious interest rate on capital in box 3,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Houwelingen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35927-103]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u263	Second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to apply a fictitious rate of return at least not higher than the rate of savings received by citizens in their savings account as long as the actual rate of return in box 3 is not possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Houwelingen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35927-104]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u264	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u265	Thank you. Mr Van Raan gave up the floor. Then Mr Grinwis, Christian Union. I'm glad we're reducing the number of motions. This subject will certainly come back soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u266	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I don't have a motion on me either. Thank you for the precise and expert answers, Mr. Secretary of State. In my first term, I quoted his maiden speech in the First Chamber from 2015. I'd love to do that again. Then he said, about what was shot by the Supreme Court: "I must say that I have rarely seen such a ill-thought-out plan." It's been noted. Mr. Chairman. The Secretary of State explained once again today how it came about and why it had to fail. At the same time, I think he has given more than a spark of hope to savers. Equal treatment must be ensured. It is difficult to imagine that the consequences that we are going to have are limited to those who have objected. We are getting a note about that, so I am not going to anticipate it much further. I would very much like to give the Secretary of State the opportunity to come up with very carefully and carefully a well-balanced compensation scheme and good proposals. I am pleased that he is involving the Chamber in sound proposals for emergency legislation, for emergency legislation. In doing so, I encourage him to throw out the net widely when it comes to looking at power components and how they can be taxed in the best way possible. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u267	Thank you, Mr Grinwis. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Eppink of JA21.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u268	Mr. Chairman. I had one more question that has not been answered, namely the ruling of the North Holland Court on 7 January. People who have objected late do not hinder adequate restoration of justice. Those requests are therefore admissible in that respect, as far as is now legally discussed. How do you see that? Then there's a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that on 24 December 2021 the Supreme Court ruled that the box 3 scheme is contrary to the ECHR;]] [[calls on the cabinet to allow small savers to be the first to be eligible under the compensation scheme,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Eppink.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35927-105]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u269	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the ruling of the Supreme Court of 24 December 2021 on box 3. We ended up on the second term on the cabinet side. I would also ask Members to take their place again. I give the floor to the Secretary of State to give his appreciation of the motions tabled and to answer one more question. I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u270	Mr. Chairman. Shall I answer the questions first?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u271	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u272	Fine. Mr Eppink's question concerned the procedure. This is an ongoing case on which the first instance was decided at the beginning of this year. This was a situation in which a taxable person had allowed the time limit for lodging an objection and in which the court ruled. There will be an appeal, so that's a pending case. The next question was from Mrs Van Dijk. Let me say something about the timing, the planning. On Friday, there will be a ruling on the objections of 2017, 2018, 2019 and 2020. Around April 1st, the directional note is there. The final decision on coverage is an integral consideration in the context of the Spring Note. It'll be here around May 1st.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u273	Would it be possible to have this discussion with each other in advance? I'm afraid he might get snowed under in the great violence of everything or get too little attention.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u274	I really need to be careful about that. That is really a trade-off that needs to be made in the cabinet. The Minister of Finance is the primary responsibility in this regard. But I understand the background to the question. When we discuss the directional note, we also talk about solutions. I have already mentioned this in the first period: burden on the burden side and finding the solution to the type of tax where the problem arose. I just wanted to leave it at that. Then there is Mrs Maatoug's question which I would like to return to. In that very short term, I simply cannot give a good and precise answer. It referred to the tax on capital income in the United Kingdom, Norway and Germany. I would like to return to that in writing within a few weeks. I'm gonna say March 1st again. I don't know if that'll make any more people happy. That commitment has been made. Then there's the motions. I'll start with the motion in part No. 94. That is the motion tabled by Mr Romke de Jong and co-signed by Mrs Inge van Dijk and Mr Idsinga and Mr Grinwis. Judgment Room. Then there is the motion of the Member, Mr Alkaya. It is about the burden area and whether it should be covered by the budget. I'd say this is typically such a subject that you have to look at in its entirety. It'll come back. So you could also hold the motion. If you insist that I give a judgment now, I would advise against her now. But the point will come back, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u275	I would like to look at Mr Alkaya whether he already knows whether or not he wishes to continue the motion. He doesn't want to hold the motion. That's clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u276	The same is true of the next motion. That's the motion in part No. 96 over the jubelton. I just made a commitment on that. I will come up with a detailed written explanation. I'm not going to anticipate that. So I would also like to suggest that we hold the motion until you have the written answer. If you want a verdict now, I'll advise against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u277	It's different here anyway. Here the Secretary of State has indicated: I will return to the technical possibilities and inability in a letter. I have indicated in the motion that this is a political statement to reduce as far as possible by 2023. I heard the Christian Union and the CDA say in the debate that it was not a point at all in the coalition negotiations and that it is a political will to abolish it by 2024, but that this is not technically possible. If it is not technically possible to reduce it by 2023, you can fully comply with the motion, because it says "as far as possible." I ask for a political view, not a technical one, because we shall come back to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u278	I understand everything Mr Alkaya says. I have made a commitment that you will receive a complete reply, and at that time it is up to the Chamber to give a positive opinion. If you ask me for advice, I will now say 'dissuade', otherwise I will go ahead and I might as well not send the letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u279	You're continuing your response. Oh, you want to arrest him?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u280	I'll hold this motion for the time being. I'm not convinced of the Secretary of State's argument, but taste some doubt. I think he says in advance out of uncertainty, "keep it on for a while, because I'm not sure."
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u281	I can be very brief about that. If Mr Alkaya thinks I am somewhat uncertain in my answer: not at all. I've been very clear. If you'd like this motion to be put to the vote now, I'd advise against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u282	She's already been apprehended. The motion in part No. Ninety-six is under arrest.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u283	At the motion in part No. I have a proposal for Mr Omtzigt. This also concerns an area which very clearly covers the territory of the Minister for Housing and Housing. The request is to set up a committee. My proposal is that this be discussed with the Minister for Housing and Housing and that we come back to it. In short, I propose to hold the motion until I know the outcome of that consultation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u284	If the Minister for Housing and the Secretary of State for Finance and Taxation wants to send a letter about this together in two weeks' time, I'll hold him for two weeks and put him to the vote in two weeks' time.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u285	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u286	Thank you. The motion in part No. 97 is under arrest.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u287	Then the motion to part No. 98. In the first period, too, I have dealt with this quite extensively. I have already indicated in the first period that if the budgetary problem is occasionally such that it is soluble in box 3, we will find it there. If we don't, we're gonna look at alternatives. I suggest we keep this one on, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u288	I'll take a look at Mrs Maatoug to see if she's willing to hold the motion. Mrs Maatoug, GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u289	The arbitration is certainly a worrying issue. We've already got some promises, there's a lot of work on the board, but I'm really worried about this. I'd be happy to give him a broader interpretation. Maybe you could say, "I'll take it with me, and if I interpret it more broadly, I'll give him judgment room." I think the risk of arbitration is so great that I don't want to wait any longer. I'm trying to make sense and give the Secretary of State room, but I don't feel like he's gonna take it. I'm gonna stick to this for a while and see what comes back.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u290	That's very special. I understand very well what you're saying. Only I appeal to you. If we just have a quantitatively precise map of the problem and we can find cover in box 3, then this is not the issue. If the problem is greater, we must of course look elsewhere. And then this comes up.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u291	Then the Secretary of State actually says, "I hear that we are almost at the discretion of the Chamber, "I can promise this, because if there is no such problem, then I will map out that the problem is not there, and that way I will have the motion dismissed, Mrs Maatoug, and otherwise I will send that information to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u292	The motion calls on the government to "make a short-term assessment of how the current situation in box 3 can provoke arbitration and propose to counter this and inform the Chamber about it." In that note, of course, we go into that. So with all due respect...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u293	I think it stays the way it is, Mrs Maatoug. The question is then whether you wish to hold the motion or think about it. I find that you do not wish to hold the motion. All right. But I see that Mr Nijboer still has a solution. Arbitration?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u294	I understand that no decision has yet been taken and that this is still being discussed in the cabinet. The Chamber can also give a little direction. The Secretary of State has always said in the debate: I am also listening to the feelings of the Chamber. I can understand why the advice is always to keep all these motions going. But I also think that it is part of the debate with the Chamber that if there is anything sensible to say about this and combating tax arbitrage is perfectly sensible; the Secretary of State will agree with that, then it is up to the Secretary of State to say: I think that is actually a good suggestion from a Member of the Chamber, which I am simply going to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u295	At the risk that I now have to react in substance...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u296	No, I think this is another attempt by Mr Nijboer...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u297	I don't think that's a danger at all. It would do the debate well.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u298	I'd be happy to.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u299	Maybe you should do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u300	The request is to identify in the short term how the current situation in box 3 can provoke arbitration. That's based on the assumption that it's attractive right now, I'll just call it a little bit of a "big" to go from box 2 to box 3. After all, we have the right in force, the judgment of the Supreme Court. We will, of course, come to you as soon as possible with urgent legislation. Why? To ensure that levy again. So there's that in there. You are now asking me to do this separately, in the short term. But you can also say: do so when you come up with this urgent legislation. We, of course, are not waiting for arbitration. Not at all, actually.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u301	Finally, Mr Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u302	So judgment room, I'd say. Tax arbitrage can be a risk. No one wants that. The Chamber would like this to be mapped out and prevented. And so does the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u303	Even more so: arbitration is not possible at the moment. One would say: wait, I'm going to box 3. But then one may get the member on the nose, because depending on what is decided in this Chamber and in the other Chamber, the levy might be a little higher in 2022 and 2023. So in other words...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u304	The Secretary of State remains at his appreciation of the motion in part No. 98. But it is very collegial of colleague Nijboer. And I think we still have a collective action.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u305	If I'm accused of peer actions, it's gonna be really fun this evening! I heard the Secretary of State say a very strange subtlety. Indeed, he said that the levy could increase in 2022. That kind of freaks me out. The tax will never be increased retroactively by law, whatever you may think of that tax. Does the Secretary of State maintain that taxation may be increased retroactively? Are we at risk?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u306	What I meant to say is that whoever would consider going from one box to another doesn't know at all what the tax will be in the years to come. I don't suppose you're gonna be arbitrary before 2022, if that's even gonna be attractive for that one year. The levy in box 3 has now been suspended, pending the proposal we are going to come up with for 2022 and 2023. You're talking about retroactivity or not. Retroactivity is a great deal of case law; you can only do so under very strict conditions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u307	Thank you. Finally, Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u308	I am somewhat reassured by the latter in the sense that we are not going to levy a form of tax with retroactive effect. As part of the peer actions: if there is one thing that leads to arbitration, then it is 5% power tax in box 3, because then everyone flies to box 2. Or did I get that all wrong?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u309	Mr Omtzigt now thinks, as he often does, inversely. This means that he is actually taking an advance on Mr Nijboer's plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u310	I think so, too. We shall now proceed to Mr Ephraim's motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u311	That's the motion in part No. 99: dissuade. The motion in part No. 100: also dissuade. The motion in part No. 101: also dissuade. Then the motion to part No. President. - The next item is the report (Doc. The motion in part No. 103: dissuade. And the motion in part No. 104: also dissuade. Then I guess I'm through.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u312	The motion in part No. 105 more.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u313	Yes, you're right. Apologies. I also said what was necessary in the first period. It's just too premature now. We'll really get back to that at the directional note.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u314	Let me see if Mr Eppink is prepared to make his motion, the motion in part No. 105, hold on.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u315	I think it is important that small savers are given legal certainty. We saw how that went in Groningen. Older people and disabled people had to line up to ask for their money. I think we should look at the small savers, especially the people with an AOW, who have an apple for thirst. We shouldn't have a situation like we saw in Groningen right now. That is why I urge you to ensure that small savers are the first to come in when it comes to compensation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u316	I have already indicated that we treat equal cases equally. I understand very well what Mr Eppink is saying, but we will have to have the data, because it is those who are purely saving. You can also have an AOWer who saves and invests. I would like to return to those details. But the intention is to treat equal cases equally. My request to Mr Eppink is to hold this motion until we discuss it again in substance. But I feel like we're hearing each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u317	What if the motion isn't stopped?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u318	Then...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u319	That's always a very annoying question to ask, but still.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u320	Well, then I'm gonna have to give you an annoying answer. Then I'd advise the motion now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u321	Thank you. That concludes this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-13.u322	I would like to thank the Secretary of State for his detailed reply and his baptism of fire in the debate. Very nice. I would like to thank colleagues, the people in the public gallery and the viewers at home. We are going to vote next Tuesday on the motions that have been tabled.
