ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-3.u1	The next item is the two-minute debate on the Agriculture and Fisheries Council on 7 April. I would like to welcome the Minister for Agriculture, Fisheries and Food Quality. No, I have to say, nature and food quality. The first speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mr De Groot, who will speak on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. Two minutes, three topics. Greenpeace drew attention to the increasingly rapid deforestation this morning in a beautiful way. A deforestation regulation is now being discussed in Europe. Nevertheless, another appeal from this place to the Minister, to the Cabinet, to allow that regulation to apply to maize and rubber and also to ecosystems other than rainforests. I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. The second issue is equally topical: the avian flu, which, as we know, went from Europe to North America and now goes from North America to South America via, you can already guess, our overseas islands. I did a little digging in there. What do you see? In fact, there is no legislation on animal health, animal welfare and food safety. There has been a "comply or explain" principle since 2019. Therefore, as the Netherlands, you need to be able to explain why legislation is not being complied with in those areas, but there is no legislation at all, and that is a great risk. In the short term, D66 would like a letter from the Minister on what to do about it. Mr President, another motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the crisis in Ukraine reveals vulnerabilities in the global food system;]] [[Whereas, in addition to climate change, the nature of land use is also an important factor in global food supply;]] [[Whereas high food prices combined with other factors may lead to political instability in vulnerable countries;]] [[Whereas, overall, only one third of the area of fertile land is used for the cultivation of crops for human consumption;]] [[calls on the Government to carry out a strategic analysis of vulnerabilities of the global food system in relation to land use,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Member Tjeerd de Groot.]] [[She's getting No. kst-21501-32-1421]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-3.u3	Mr. Chairman. This motion is in response to a hearing that took place yesterday. Clingendael Institute has proved to have an insight into the relationship between climate change and food security, but the land use aspect is not sufficiently visible. I did not mention the Institute, but this is an appeal to that institute, possibly in cooperation with other institutions, to think about this issue, because this is actually the key. If you want to feed 10 billion mouths, you can only do that when you look at the land use. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-3.u4	Thank you very much for your input. The next speaker will be Mrs Vestering, who will speak on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-3.u5	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to say that I am very happy to be able to stand here again today. I would also like to express my thanks to the President of the House of Representatives for the support, the sweet messages and attentions I received during the period I was in the hospital and recovering. Mr. Chairman. First of all, I will start with two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the government in the European Union calls for the digestate from manure processors (the "residual manure") to be carried out on land under the standards for fertiliser rather than for animal manure, thus bringing an additional amount of animal manure to land;]] [[considers that this is in fact a trick to get rid of the manure surplus, disguised as sustainability innovation;]] [[calls on the government to stop the European commitment to relaxing the rules on the "fertiliser" and to focus on effective reduction of the manure surplus,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member forestering.]] [[She's getting No. kst-21501-32-1422]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-3.u6	Mr. Chairman. Then I have a motion...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-3.u7	One moment, there is an interruption by Mr Van Campen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-3.u8	First of all, I would like to welcome Mrs Vestering back in our midst; I am glad that that is possible again. I'm listening to the Party's motion for the Animals. The Group is opposed to the government's efforts to create organic manure substitutes. However, I would like to ask Mrs Vestering whether she is aware of the consequences of the loss of derogation, the impossibility of organic digestates, for the use of fertilizers?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-3.u9	We now have more shit than land in the Netherlands, as I'm sure you know. We have far too much manure and that is because we keep far too many animals in the Netherlands. This causes a lot of problems in the areas of water pollution, climate change, biodiversity loss and, of course, animal welfare. If we are to look at how we can deal with healthy soil and a healthy crop, then we really need to go to a different way of using land and fertilising. The first thing we have to look at is this derogation. It's a good thing if we didn't get it. What we have long warned the Chamber and the Minister about is that a lot of animals will have to go to the slaughterhouse because there are now far too many animals being bred. So I would also like to point out to you that we need to reduce the number of animals we breed. Fortunately, the Minister also has that instrument in his tool kit, so we hope he will use it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-3.u10	But with the loss of a derogation, there is an acute problem. The Minister is now working for a derogation for this current year. The manure season has been on steam for three months. Farmers are already working on making the soil fertile to grow the crops. So they will acutely need that manure, which growth agents are needed to allow those crops to grow. They'll switch to fertilizer. There's gonna be a huge demand for that. Mrs Vestering also knows that the production of fertilizers is accompanied by a lot of CO production and a lot of gas use. I hear what Mrs Vestering is saying about that future and transition, but I would like to ask again how the Animal Party is looking at this acute problem that arises from the loss of derogation?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-3.u11	That acute problem is partly caused by the VVD. I would like to draw your attention to that in the first instance. I would also like to point out that we really have far too much manure in the Netherlands. That is the acute problem the Party for Animals has pointed out year after year after year.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-3.u12	Mrs Vestering continues her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-3.u13	I also have a motion to protect the national bird, or perhaps rather the international bird, the grutto, better during his long journey to and from the Netherlands. Because not only in the Netherlands, but also during this trip there are many dangers, as in Spain. First of all, thanks to the Minister for finding out more about this case. And yet the motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, since last February, the region of Andalusia has adopted a law legalising illegal wells around the natural and world heritage area of Doñana;]] [[Whereas this causes further deterioration of the habitat, which is detrimental to the gruttos that are looking for food there as a stopover to and from the Netherlands;]] [[Whereas there has been a significant reduction in gruttos there last winter;]] [[calls on the Government to examine the role the Netherlands can play in setting up rehabilitation projects of dried up nature reserves in cooperation with countries on the migratory route,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member forestering.]] [[She's getting No. kst-21501-32-1423]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-3.u14	Finally, I have a question about agricultural poison. The European directive on the sustainable use of agricultural poison requires the Netherlands to draw up a national action plan every five years to give effect to that directive. It is now almost halfway 2022 and we are still waiting for the national action plan that should have been implemented in 2021. I would like to ask the Minister, with some concern, what remains of this plan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-3.u15	Thank you for your input. I'm glad you're well and well again. The next speaker is Mr Van Campen, who will speak on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-3.u16	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The manure season has been going on for three months. Farmers are making their land fertile to grow the crops that provide healthy and high-quality food for all of us, but we know that the derogation to the Nitrates Directive has not yet been granted for this current year. Yesterday, the Chamber supported my motion calling on the government to inform the Chamber in the short term of the devastating consequences of possible loss of derogation and to come forward with a proposal for a new derogation for agricultural practice. I would like to thank the Minister for having already complied with the first request before adopting the motion by sending a letter to the Chamber at the beginning of the recess. Quite frankly, it's a letter that doesn't cheer us up, but it clearly indicates the government's commitment to obtaining a derogation. My group would like to express its appreciation for this in the direction of the Minister. Mr. Chairman. I would therefore like to ask the Minister from this place what his expectations are at the moment. Are there any developments on the derogation dossier? With our group, questions come in weekly from farmers such as 'what is the situation', 'what is the situation' and 'what is the situation with regard to the use of the derogation we are asking the Commission for as regards the possibility of substitutions for fertilizers'. We would also like to hear whether there are any developments on the derogation dossier. Finally, Mr President. The second operative part of the motion calls on the government to come forward with a proposal for a new derogation for agricultural practice. The Nitrates Directive action programme and the addendum lead to a tightening of the implementation practice for farmers. It shall be determined and described up to the calendar when crops are to be removed from the land. That just really gets in the way of entrepreneurship. So I would also like to ask the Minister how he is going to implement that proposal which is feasible for agricultural practice, because entrepreneurs deserve the opportunity to take action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-3.u17	Thank you for your input, too. The next speaker would be Mrs Van der Plas, but I do not see her. I call Mr Thijssen on behalf of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-3.u18	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Yesterday we had a round table on the global food shortage, which is aggravated by the situation in Ukraine. There wasn't a word of Spanish. The World Food Organisation said that more than 800 million people are currently starving in the world and that the war in Ukraine is going to make it possible to become more than 900 million people. It was also noted that there is enough food in the world, but people cannot access it. Clingendael was also clear and said: what is happening in the world today is similar to the situation around the Arab Spring. This means that there is only one thing that needs to be done, and somewhere there is a blaze and social unrest in the MENA region or in Africa. Clingendael even mentioned the West Balkan. It's hard to predict, but it could just happen. Oxfam was also there and was very clear about what needs to be done. Make sure that people, especially women, can grow their own food in the MENA region and in Africa and that they are not pushed off the market by, for example, European products. Make sure the power of the four great wheat merchants in the world is broken. Make sure that local producers, especially those women, can produce their own food. My question to the Minister is therefore: I do not care whether it is formal or informal, but please go and talk about it in Europe, because we cannot let it happen that 100 million more people are going to get hungry. The warnings of social unrest or civil war are crystal clear. Clingendael and Oxfam were also clear about the fact that it can indeed help to dampen prices. That is where the social unrest comes from, of course, by making more human food available on the market. Will the Minister also discuss this at the Council? It is therefore important to reduce the use of agricultural land for feed and fuel and to increase the use of agricultural land for human food in the Netherlands, the EU and outside the EU. Greenpeace sets an example today by blocking a very large ship with a lot of cattle feed in the lock of IJmuiden. Will Europe and the Minister take this example? Make sure that less animal feed is needed and that more agricultural land becomes available for food. Mr President, I would like to end very briefly. Clingendael and the World Bank were also clear about the fact that this war is still taking some time and that prices remain high for a long time to come. Can the Minister discuss what needs to be done in the next sowing season? This seed season is almost over, but the next seed season can lead to more human food on the market so that we can prevent these accidents. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-3.u19	Thank you for your input. This brings us to the end of the parliamentary term. I'm suspending the meeting until 10:40. Then comes the Minister with the appreciation of the three motions tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-3.u20	The next item is the continuation of the two-minute debate on the Agriculture and Fisheries Council. I give the floor to the Minister for Agriculture, Nature and Food Quality, and he also gives an appreciation of the three motions tabled. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-3.u21	Thank you, Mr President, and also in that order: so just answer the questions first, then the motions. Mr De Groot's question on behalf of the D66 Group: an appeal to the cabinet to add maize and rubber to the deforestation regulation. We have worked hard for this in the past, and we will also be working hard for it in the coming period. So we will continue to work for this, to add that to it. Then there is the question of avian flu and Mr De Groot's concerns. I understand that very well; it is also the concerns of the cabinet. And you're asking for a letter. That is a commitment I make to the Chamber: I will send a letter to the Chamber about our appreciation of this question before the summer recess.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-3.u22	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for that commitment. Can I understand her in such a way that it is not only about bird flu, but also about animal welfare and food safety, actually the 'comply or explain' situation on our islands?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-3.u23	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-3.u24	And about the first remark: it is indeed about maize and rubber. Thank you for continuing to do so. But it also concerns ecosystems other than the Amazon, including the Cerrado, where a large part of the soy also comes from.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-3.u25	We have had a discussion on this before, and I have already made a commitment to that. So, sure. Then there is Mrs Vestering's question: where is the national action plan for plant protection products? Well, the public consultation is just over. This means that the plan is ready in concept and that I assume that we will be able to have the debate with the Chamber before the summer. Then there is Mr Van Campen on care and derogation. In my letter to the Chamber, I stated that the concerns raised by the VVD Group are also the concerns of the cabinet. You are asking for a state of affairs at the moment. I can't give it to you. We're talking. We are talking about the progress of the derogation, but that is all I can say about it right now. I understand Mr Van Campen's concerns about security and legal certainty for the agricultural sector. And I also wrote in my letter that I assume that this year's derogation will remain at the same level as in recent years. Expressing hope and expectation is very difficult at the moment. Work is incredibly hard. And I would also like to thank Mr Van Campen for his comments on the commitment, because there is a great deal of work from both the cabinet and the Ministry to achieve this derogation. And I get it very well; Mr Van Campen's concerns are also the concerns of the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-3.u26	I understand that, at the moment you're negotiating with each other, it doesn't always serve the purpose of reporting on that in public. So, unfortunately, I understand what the Minister has to say about that. But as a parliamentarians, it sometimes feels powerless to talk to a Nitrate Committee whose faces we do not know, whose interests we do not know, how they are viewed. So I would like to ask the Minister: is this conversation, which we know is being held, really being discussed by the Minister at the political level, that is to say by the European Commission, about how we are going to achieve a good balance between nature and the economy in the Netherlands? Because we have a lot to do with each other, but it would also be nice if the European Commission saw that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-3.u27	Yes, I understand very well what Mr Van Campen means. Look, it is my objective to at least achieve that derogation decision for the next four years. And we have to be careful not to tie up all kinds of things. I have also seen this with the discussion on fertilizer replacement: that is very soon seen as the hole in which the Netherlands is trying to close the weather. Let us first try to bring in this derogation, with the arguments underneath: we have 25 billion; we have a climate forecast; we have a water statement. And I think we also have a clear line, in which we indicate that the Netherlands will really go back into the run-off in the coming years. And that must also be the reason for extending that derogation. I fully agree with Mr Van Campen on the risks of not extending the derogation, because that is really disastrous. That is also disastrous for achieving goals. We are committed to achieving that. The same applies to the comment on fertilizer substitutes. In that sense, I shall be voting against Mrs Vestering's motion for a resolution later, because fertilizer replacement can certainly be a solution to the huge price that must now be paid for fertilizers. Mr Thijssen spoke about the social unrest and food crisis in relation to Ukraine, and asked: does the Minister wish to have a discussion? Yes, I do, because I also see the enormous risks involved. That is what I said in previous debates. I will not fail to have the conversation within Europe where I can. We must not forget that the scenario of 100 million people is in fact getting more true, because that also means enormous pressure on Dutch sectors. A question was also asked about the next sowing season. We have to be realistic. From my Dutch point of view, I am not in a position to impose this European obligation. I can, however, promise that we will, of course, take account of this in our contributions. Of course, you want the shift from animal to plant. I get that. I have also said what I think is important, so there will certainly be a shift in this area in the years to come. That's what I can promise you. It's a logical question. Wherever I can, I'll certainly make appropriate use of that, Mr. Thijssen. Is stopping the ship the solution? I don't really see that as a solution. We work in a global food system. The Netherlands is a trading country. We must be careful not to put the horse behind the cart because of this kind of action. I understand Mr Thijssen's remark and I understand his commitment, but let us also see it in a broader perspective. That is the point, Mr President. I now come to the three motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-3.u28	There is still an interruption by Mr Thijssen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-3.u29	Thank you to the Minister for replying. We heard yesterday at the round table that there is no free trade in the food market at all. It is a highly regulated and a very specific market, so to speak. I have just said that four wheat traders hold almost 70% or 80% of the wheat trade. We can say that Greenpeace should not intervene in free trade, but there is no free trade at all. There are four companies that are now entering these high wheat prices, so 100 million people are at risk of getting more hungry. I don't think the Minister should say: it's free trade, so there's nothing I can do. I believe that the European Union should say: we are intervening; we are seeing a catastrophe before our eyes, so we are going to intervene. What can be done in the short term and what can be done in the longer term in the next seed season? So I would still like a promise or something from the Minister. When will it become concrete what we are going to do to prevent these people from getting hungry and to prevent the flame from falling apart?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-3.u30	I think I made a commitment to Mr Thijssen. I also see, of course, that part of this problem can be tackled by sowing in a different way, using the possibilities available, such as a shift from animal to plant. I'm sure I can see that. But as a Member State of the Netherlands, I am not in a position to organise this for the whole of the European Union. I have made a commitment that where I see possibilities, I will make appropriate use of them. So that's really what I want to work for. Then about the Netherlands as a trading country. We have an open trading system. Of course, I understand Greenpeace's movement. I understand that very well. I also understand the signal that it sends out. I also understand what Mr Thijssen is saying about the four traders. That is also something that bothers me, because I also understand that this can be price-driven. Where I see possibilities, I will certainly not fail to put my finger on them.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-3.u31	This is not, of course, a full debate, but perhaps the Minister will be able to indicate in the feedback of the Agriculture and Fisheries Council what opportunities he sees in Europe for joint action, in the short term and also towards the next seed season. I believe that action is really needed from the European Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-3.u32	Yeah, that's a commitment. I will certainly pay attention to this in the report that the Chamber receives every time in connection with the Agriculture and Fisheries Council. Mr. Chairman. Then to the motions. Mr De Groot has a motion for a resolution on item No. 1421 on the global food system. Of course, a large number of world players have already done a lot of research on it. I refer to the FAO, the IPCC and the UNCED. However, I would like to make a commitment to pool these efforts and send them to your Chamber. If you'd like another analysis, I'd like to leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber. It is just a question of what Mr De Groot is trying to do, because that is not entirely clear to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-3.u33	Thanks to the Minister. What became clear yesterday is that many international organisations, including the FAO, do not really have a good definition of sustainability. They don't make any choices about that either. That's what you can see from the OECD, one of the speakers at the round table held last night. This while land use is a crucial aspect of world food supply. Clingendael also had little in mind. We are like the Netherlands as one of the first countries in the world to think from that circular agriculture. So I think it's good to see if we can put that concept in a broader perspective. That is the thrust of the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-3.u34	May I then put a question to Mr De Groot? Should this be done on a Dutch scale or on a global scale?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-3.u35	No, it would really be world-wide land use. It would really be a global, strategic analysis, with Ukraine as a trigger.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-3.u36	Okay. In that case, as has been said, I shall leave the motion to the House's judgement. Mr. Chairman. Then the motion to part No. 1422 on the manure processors of Mrs Vestering of the Party for Animals. I have just said something about the government's opinion on this. The use of the cabinet is another. We therefore advise against this motion. Then the interesting question about the grutto. I understand very well what Mrs Vestering is asking for on behalf of the Animal Party. I would like to refer to my colleague for Nature and Nitrogen, who, of course, also deals with meadow birds. I understand that there is an international consultation where this official is going to be discussed, so we are already working on this and I can do the motion in part. 1423 Judgment Room. That's the third motion. Oh, no, that's it, I think. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-3.u37	Yeah, that was the three motions. Thank you for your contribution to this debate and also to your support staff. The same applies to the members.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-3.u38	The motions will be put to the vote on Tuesday 17 May.
