ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u1	The next item is the debate on the legislative proposal 35949, Amendment of the Fertilisers Act on the concept of dairy cows and some other amendments concerning the phosphate rights system.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u2	I give the floor to Mrs Kluit on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance, partly on behalf of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u3	Good morning, Mr President, and good morning to the Minister. Welcome to this room. For some of us, this is the first time we have had the debate here. Mr. Chairman. Indeed, today I am speaking on behalf of the PvdA and Mr Karakus, all in order to keep your agenda a bit easier today. Welcome to the Minister. His first debate here anticipates our introduction. My first question is whether the Minister can give us some idea of what he wants to do with his agricultural policy. How would he like to look back in three years? I would also ask that we avoid leaving the Chamber in a moment and think that the law now before us will become the line of the new minister. Thank you also to the officials for the prompt and careful answer of the questions. That may also be said, especially if there is such a short time for it. That we receive careful answers is also necessary in order to be able to do the parliamentary work properly. The law that we are discussing today concerns a number of changes to the phosphate rights system and complements it with a number of new points. We would like to hear from the Minister how this bill should be placed in the perspective he has for that agricultural sector. I would like a reflection on the elements that we have questions about and how this fits in with the Minister's long-term vision. We still have questions about a number of parts. First of all, the change in the distribution of young cattle among categories in the phosphate rights system and the permanent establishment of the temporary scheme for young cattle in suckler cows. We have questions about the 100 kilograms skimming-free lease and the possibility to make possible per AMvB renovation lease. A number of articles in this law specifically aim to make the lives of farmers easier, with less interference from the bottlenecks they experience at the boundaries of the natural system. We understand like no other that a cow is not a robot, that it sometimes produces more and sometimes less and that you do not have the same outcome all years. But we hope to convince the Minister in this debate that there are simpler ways of offering farmers a relaxed way of operating. We really still have very serious hesitations about this law. The risk of this law is that farmers who do well, farmers who have a derogation or farmers who want to farm land-based agriculture are put at a disadvantage in relation to the period before we introduce this law. On the contrary, we want to give the farmers who want to switch to circular and land-based agriculture and we want to achieve these water and nature goals. In that light, we have also looked at this law. First of all, the law, mildly put, does not seem to contribute to the objectives of existing Dutch and European legislation in the area of nature and water quality. He also seems to ignore forthcoming tightening of the directives, for example in the area of water quality. With the possible growth of these farmers, they will be put on the wrong track again, because in the long run we will have to make that turn into a shrinkage of livestock farming. The adoption of this law therefore makes it more difficult to achieve the objectives of the Water Framework Directive. It also means that for thousands of farmers the derogation can suddenly be abolished as far as the year goes. We think that is a bad thing. However, if the Minister responds warmly to our objections, we may be able to consider voting in favour. First of all, in general: how could you eliminate those negative effects? This could be done, for example, by lowering the ceiling on phosphate emissions, so that it does not in any case lead to an increase in the amount of fertilizers or phosphate rights in dairy farming or in one of the other categories, so that unused rights cannot be re-used. We also believe that the risk can be reduced by removing the skimming-free part of the 100 kilograms lease or perhaps even withdrawing the whole article, because with the registration articles the problem for farmers has actually already been solved in practice. But if you don't want to, you could also maximize it by saying that a farmer can only use it twice, so that it can never lead to permanent growth of businesses. Finally, we recommend to the Minister that the articles on renovation lease should not enter into force until the AMvB has been discussed in this house, so that we know what we are talking about. We would like to hear a response from the Minister to these proposals. We're going into it a little more deeply now. The phosphate rights system was once established to control phosphate and nitrogen emissions, in particular deposition, and is an important instrument linked to the objectives of achieving the Water Framework Directive. These phosphate rights must be bought in when a farmer keeps livestock. Now the Board of Appeal for Business has said that you should actually lay down the classification by law, because the situation created uncertainty. The Minister says: "We must resolve this uncertainty. That is what we are doing by shifting categories and placing some of them outside the system. This can and will not lead to additional emissions, because we are staying below the ceiling." But we're doing another analysis. The Minister seems to think that, as long as there is work under that phosphate ceiling, that would be sufficient to achieve the Water Framework Directive and the Birds and Habitats Directive, but we do not think so. We think it leads to an increase in animals compared to today. An unknown number of animals, the Minister also admits in his reply. You just don't have to go on that road at all, we think. So, unlike the government's analysis, our analysis is that this change will lead to additional phosphate emissions compared to the current situation, because the released phosphate rights for dairy cows will be re-used for other dairy cows and the increase in young cattle in the other categories will lead to an increase in emissions in that category, although below the ceiling, but an increase compared to today. As far as we are concerned, it is therefore very simple: more cows are more emissions, even under the established paper ceilings. That is why we urge the Minister to stop accounting and really start solving the problems. So our key question is: why has this bill been chosen to sit back on those edges of what is allowed? And why wasn't a more robust solution chosen?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u4	I think it's a little unclear. It's not entirely clear to me. Does GroenLinks want fewer animals or does one go for less phosphate?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u5	The situation in which we are in the Netherlands is that in order to get less phosphate, you will also have to have fewer animals. We have sat on the borders so that another outcome is no longer possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u6	But the farmers are now below that phosphate limit, so it doesn't matter at all? If you're gonna skim a little less because there's room for it, and if you put in a renovation lease, for example, it doesn't matter, does it, as long as they just stay under that ceiling? That's the purpose of that, isn't it? Isn't that why we set that line?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u7	With the current ceilings, we are already failing to reach the targets. That is why we are already discussing the derogation with the European Commission. As the Minister states in his reply, we cannot at present rule out the need to lower these ceilings. I read in it: that's probably coming. This applies to phosphate emissions, but also to nitrogen emissions. There too, we know that only technical solutions are not enough. Cabinet policy is also the shrinking of livestock. That is because there are tons of reports below that need to shrink livestock. You can talk about how much that is, but with the size of animals you're not gonna make it. This proposal leads us to get more animals in the Netherlands. There's our pain.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u8	Finally, Mrs Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u9	Yes, but then you actually say: we just want to get rid of those farmers. Then we'd better stop the whole circus on Natura 2000, phosphate rights and the whole rata plan. Well, then we better say we're gonna buy out half of it, ready? 'Cause that's what you're talking about. Then it's clear, isn't it? Now they have to constantly pull out all kinds of antics in order to keep farming. Then you just have to tell the honest story on behalf of GroenLinks: we just want to get rid of them; they just have to go, done. Then we'll stop the whole circus.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u10	Mrs. Kluit, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u11	I am very pleased, because I would see it as a breakthrough that Mrs Faber agrees with us that we need to choose robust solutions. That has also been the line of GroenLinks since the first ruling on the PAS and even when setting up the PAS. So I would say: here I see no conflict anymore. I am therefore very interested in Mrs Faber's contribution to this debate. I'll come back to the renovations, by the way. In view of the coalition agreement, we expected that more control of the size of the livestock would be desirable and that it would therefore be chosen to include cattle in the phosphate rights system. So if there is uncertainty, we could also have chosen to bring it under the category of dairy. Why wasn't that chosen? Then the negative effects, in any way.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u12	Sorry, Mrs. Kluit, just a moment. I've spoken to some of you in advance. The room is very loud and the microphones are very sensitive. So the friendly request is not to talk in the Chamber. If you want to make a contribution, you'll walk to the interrupting microphone and I'll give you the floor, otherwise you won't. Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u13	Mr. Chairman. We therefore ask the Minister whether he is prepared to withdraw these rights. The underlying question is: if the minister had to choose between farmers, would he support those land-based farmers, farmers who are already doing better with a derogation, or all cattle farmers in the Netherlands? Then we get to the 10% discount from the phosphate rights fund. The solution chosen for skimming surprises us, because the Minister does not find it a problem to reduce the growth of phosphate rights for the desired transition to circular agriculture. 10% doesn't sound like much, but is still significant. How does it fit into the government's policy to speed up this circular and ground-based agriculture? Why didn't we choose a variant where the 100 kilograms were rounded up as well? There is now a price difference. What was the reason for that? With this instrument, farmers already have a solution to the problem of the unexpected increase in milk production by leasing and by relaxing the registration articles. Why does it still need financial support? I'd like an explanation from the Minister. The same applies to derogations. We understand from the answer that the cabinet likes to cut off these two talks with the European Commission from this proposal. We think they are very closely linked. In the answer, the Minister himself hints a bit: we might need to tighten up on phosphate ceilings. Then do it right away. There is therefore consistency with European legislation. Why doesn't the Cabinet make this connection? The result is that farmers will now be faced with this bill in a few months' time and then with the Seventh Action Programme of the Nitrates Directive, with different demands being placed on them. How does the cabinet then judge the consistency of the policy? What does that do with the confidence of farmers in the new cabinet? Who is going to pay the price if the emissions are unexpectedly wrong and we do not appear to be able to reach the phosphate ceilings? These are not farmers who apply the 100 kilograms lease or farmers who have come from a complicated situation. These are the farmers who want to feed land-based agriculture or who want to retain that derogation. They are already being burdened with tens of thousands of euros of extra costs throughout the year, while other farmers have seen obstacles removed. Why does the cabinet not opt for farmers who are already working in this direction? Then the close connection with achieving the goals. So it affects the Birds and Habitats Directives, because it affects water quality. Due to the close link between phosphate and nitrogen, it also affects the nitrogen deposition in Natura 2000 sites. How does the Cabinet fill in the precautionary principle? What about the statute of limitations? Because then it is important that there should be a reduction and not an increase. The law, in the best situation, introduces new uncertainties. That is why I would like to point out to the Minister that the impact of the legislation we have had on livestock emissions over the last five years is consistently disappointing. Less and less reduction is being achieved than is envisaged. I also mention the small legal uncertainties. I've been looking back for that for a while. For example, internal and external netting was also an issue in the debate, but it was seen as very small. Well, we now know how big the problems can be after small legal steps. Ultimately, it has led to a 9.5% increase in nitrogen deposition rather than a decrease. You're all gonna have to deal with that as a minister. So how does the Minister deal with the precautionary principle? Farmers can grow between 2% and 3% if they participate annually in 100 kilograms of skimming-free lease. Because you don't have to buy off when leasing, that's a cheaper way than purchasing rights, but there's no limit on the number of times you can do that. So if you read 100 kilograms every year, you can do it cheaply. And the farmers knowing they're enterprising guys, they're gonna take advantage of that. She's very well-off, but is it desirable? Is the Cabinet prepared to link a maximum number of periods to the lease? I'd like a response. Finally, the part of skimming-free lease for renovation and relocation. I see Mr Schalk coming to the interrupting microphone, so perhaps we should wait for that, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u14	Well, finish the paragraph. I shall give the floor to Mr Schalk if you are prepared to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u15	Yes. It is actually a very sympathetic part of the bill, because it helps farmers who want to become sustainable or move. We understand that animals may have to be somewhere else for a while, but there is an incredible amount of uncertainty about how that should work. We find it understandable that there is no skimming, because the rights continue to be used, but it is of course important in this house to know under what conditions this renovation lease is made possible. For example, it is not excluded that these animals are temporarily parked near a Natura 2000 site. It is clear that you have to be close to a Natura 2000 site to move them, but who knows if you can move them 5 kilometers closer to a Natura 2000 site. There is, for example, a farmer who has stopped keeping animals permanently, who is now going to keep animals temporarily. It's not unthinkable that that's gonna happen. It is therefore important that provinces that make detailed land plans and can continue to direct that large-scale movement of animals. Can they actually do that? That is my question to the Minister. How is it ensured that a temporary permanent stay of animals is not the result of this law? Finally, our question as to why the form of an AMvB has been chosen. Why is this option not properly and in detail elaborated in the legislative proposal? Why didn't we choose to come up with a supplementary bill and take a little more time to work on it? I'd like an answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u16	I understand from Mrs Kluit that she has been greatly ported from what is in the coalition agreement, but that she warns on the other hand not to go into accounting. But when I hear her speech, she herself is accounting on all fronts. There are a number of farmers who are doing tremendously good work to ensure that they come together under that phosphate rights ceiling. My question to Mrs Kluit is as follows. If a farmer, because there's a specific moment of measurement per year, actually needs some space, or not, and he has to start trading, leasing, why do you have to skim it even more when someone's doing the right thing? Did the Minister not come up with a very good solution to prevent farmers who do their job from being punished?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u17	I really disagree fundamentally with Mr Schalk that this is a good solution, because a farmer is faced with the fact that he is not only to buy but also to lease and that he can partly skim and partly not skim. In the view of GroenLinks, we want to move towards a situation where a farmer no longer needs phosphate rights at all, because we have protected nature so well that we have solved those problems in nature, so that farmers do not always have to comply with those limits as a collective while individually finding goat paths to grow. So I do not agree with Mr Schalk that this makes it clearer or simpler for farmers. It makes it more complex for farmers and it makes it more unclear. I have to think about releasing the milk quota. The farmers were very happy about that, because they were finally done with...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u18	This is going to be a long answer, Mrs Kluit. Can you...?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u19	Farmers were rid of the compelling rules. We all know what the consequences have been. So we want to see clear and clear rules and not all these little designs to make things a little better here and there.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u20	I have the feeling that Mrs Kluit is actually referring to the fact that farmers should no longer supply phosphate, that is to say farmers have to turn all their cattle in. That seems to be the solution. My point is that farmers are trying in a very good and careful way to do business in such a way that they take account of all the ceilings and everything. At any given time, a certain moment of measurement is set up in one year. You will then be paid for, while you now offer room for that reckoning not to become a skimming. Surely that is a much fairer way of dealing with farmers who have to work extremely hard to comply with all kinds of ceilings and so on in all legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u21	I can be very brief about this: farmers do not want to work with ceilings at all. So we need to get to a situation where those ceilings are not necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u22	We can also be very brief: Mrs Kluit actually wants farmers not to be there. Farmers have centuries-old rights. They're in charge of their operations. Perhaps there are farmers who would not want phosphate duty ceilings, but there are a lot of farmers who work very hard to reach all these ceilings and adapt their operations accordingly. They have incredibly invested and then they get beaten up at some point a year.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u23	So your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u24	My question is whether Mrs Kluit could also look at the position of farmers in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u25	Finally, Mrs Kluit.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u26	I think we are listening better to what the farmers are asking than Mr Schalk. These kinds of rules get farmers in trouble time and time again, because it's not a robotic process. A cow gives more milk one year than another. That's just a fact. If you have to run your business at the limit of what you can and can't do, if you don't manage with the rights you have because you don't have enough buffers already, so you go over the border and have to re-lease and then apply different rules for sub-lease than for purchase, that's something that farmers don't want. Farmers are waiting for air to be created in this livestock sector. You create air by talking to the farmers who want to stop. You have to offer them a good deal. You have to help the farmers who are in the wrong location to get to a location where they can't cause damage to a nature reserve. Then I predict that in fifteen years you will be able to get rid of all these ceilings and all these rules and that it will be a lot more finer farmers for the farmers.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u27	Thank you. May I ask the Members? We have a very long day today, until midnight. The interruptions are short questions with short answers. Mrs. Kluit, round off.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u28	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm almost done. I'm gonna make my time. So my question is whether the Minister, in short, would like to keep the articles on the renovation lease inoperative and will undertake to do so until the AMvB is known and discussed here. Mr President, that was my input. Within time, a minute won.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u29	Thank you. I have two more points of order. First of all, I see that there is some confusion with the seats. I've given seats to the members. I see, for example, that 50PLUS must now deviate, but that is not the intention. So I would ask Members, including Mr Karakus, to sit down at the seat allocated to your group. The same goes for Mrs Kluit. The second point of order is that Mrs Kluit has asked the Minister, and I would also like to ask the Minister's attention on this point to deal with his policy over the coming years, in a broad exposition. But no policy debate has been requested by the committee, so I ask the Minister not to do so. We are talking today about a bill and we are really focusing the debate on it. So we are not going to talk about broad policy; that is well suited for an introductory meeting with the committee that is planned if it is right. I now give the floor to Mrs Faber-van de Klashorst, on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u30	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. For centuries, the keeping of cattle has not only been part of our cultural landscape, but also part of our food supply. It was soon realized that the cattle was a beautiful and versatile animal. The animal was not only kept for tensile strength but also for milk and meat. To this day, everything about the beef is actually being used. Actually, it's a very sustainable animal. The indigestible grass for us can be converted with their four stomachs and folds into food full of proteins, fats, minerals and vitamins. It was not for nothing that in my youth the advertising figure Joris Driespinter sold three glasses of milk a day. In the exhibition Held in the Rijksmuseum and in De Nieuwe Kerk in 2007, Joris Driespinter was still honored as one of the 300 historical heroes, who was so strong because he consumed three glasses of milk a day. Today, such an advertising hero would be unthinkable. In fact, he would be transformed directly into a soy boy. But, yeah, when I was a kid, there were only 10 million people left in this fertile delta. At that time, the government was still promoting immigration policy and, thanks to the liberals in the left, an immigration policy. And now, under pressure from population growth, we have to change our way of life. That would all be good for the climate. Less dairy and less meat, and rather no meat at all, with the result that no dairy, because dairy and meat are linked. So the government decided that we should become plant eaters, while our teeth and our bowels really show that we are all-eaters. Well, how crooked do you want it? To shape this in practice, the government uses nudging, a motivational technique in which people are subtly stimulated to behave in the desired way. You get rid of the market, you're gonna kill the suppliers, too. In addition, a hundreds of millions of devouring systems are being rigged up from blurry models and Natura 2000 bastions. This allows you to steer as a government deliciously and make it even more difficult for meat and dairy farming to enslave them with endless rules, such as phosphate rights. After the Minister first issued too many phosphate rights, the accounts are rebalanced by means of skimming. And so every transfer of phosphate rights takes 20% off. The Minister then comes up with the proposal that farmers should have a little bit to look after, and that they should also make it clear which cattle are precisely covered by the phosphate system. As far as young cattle are concerned, that was not always clear. After all, while the government is still cheating, farmers must, of course, be prevented from doing so. Farmers are also given the opportunity to lease 100 kilograms of phosphate duty per year free of skimming. This can cover higher milk production than was foreseen, so that the farmer concerned does not get an economic offense. Mr. Chairman. The Minister proposes a renovation lease. The aim of this measure is to make stables more sustainable, achieving emission reduction or improvement of animal welfare and reducing ammonia deposition on Natura 2000 sites. By means of the renovation lease, it is possible to temporarily place the bovine animals with the corresponding phosphate rights with another farmer without skimming. This seems sympathetic, but in fact it is a further roll-out of the current policy, which is not exactly a hot bath for farmers. For example, the renovation lease can be used for the renovation of stables. There's nothing wrong with that at first sight. However, the sustainability of the stables can be a precarious undertaking. The manufacturer comes up with a new stable type to which an emission factor is linked after examination. How the emission factor is achieved is not easy to understand. For example, if two years later the house emission is measured in practice, it is often higher than the emissions, coupled with the manufacturer's previously declared emission factor. This creates an accounting problem for the farmer. Since the investigation concerning the production of the supplier's emission factor is kept under review, it is not possible to establish the resultant differences. The farmers who are encouraged to make huge investments must have the right to clarity and security. Is the Minister prepared to provide more clarity and certainty in this matter and to release these investigations? Mr. Chairman. After the authorities scattered all over the country first sneak out of all kinds of Natura 2000 sites and then put them tight with management rules, the next phase has come: relocations away from the Natura 2000 sites. An example is the Wierdense Veld area, a stamp of about 100 square meters, which was designated as a Natura 2000 site in 2016 and which would contain bogs. However, several ecologists indicate that there is no active bog at all and that there is also a good chance that there will never be. That the Overijsselsele Deputy States prefer not to be confronted with this debatable bog, is evident from the cancellation of a planned excursion. A critical journalist and independent experts volunteered for a work visit in this area, but the Deputy States did not know how quickly they had to cancel the previously planned excursion. At the same time, there are plans to impose restrictions on farmers within a circle of 5 kilometers on the basis of this debatable high bog area of 10 by 10 meters. Mr President, our temporary plenary is even bigger! It's just insane, but that's where we are. Look, it all sounds funny, but it's really terrifying. By not giving any openness, the mistrust grows. The aim of the media is to inform society. This is also underlined by the government in its own media policy, but now it seems that the same government is preventing the media from carrying out its task. How is it that the same government does not welcome a critical journalist and an independent expert to take a look at a Natura 2000 site? Surely it is a normal course of events that the media can report on a nature policy to which hundreds of millions of taxpayers' money are spent? I'd like a response from the Minister. Finally, Mr President. How the conditions of the renovation lease are shaped, we are still in the dark about that. All this is regulated by a general measure of governance. The PVV Group looks forward to responding to this new minister. Since this Minister of the Christian Union is, that will have to give some hope for the farmers, so I am curious.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u31	Thank you. Mr. Karakus on behalf of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u32	Mrs Faber, you're talking about a ceiling. Are you aware that we are still above the ceiling with phosphate rights? What do you think of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u33	I had the impression that we're on the edge, so not quite over it. But it may be that we're over something. Mr. Karakus could be right about that. Let me give you that advantage.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u34	So is our story: you're taking risks while you're above the ceiling. We also had a technical briefing and there was the answer: we remain neutral, so the current state of affairs remains. But de facto we're still above it, and in there you're still taking a risk by shifting accounting. That puts you at risk that you're still above the ceiling. What exactly is your solution? You can also say: let's get under the ceiling first. Why do you look up the edge every time?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u35	I don't see any risk in that, because it's a created problem. It is true that we live in a fertile delta here. Cases such as phosphate............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Look, we live in a fertile delta. These phosphates are not bad at all and nitrate is not bad at all. Nitrogen is a building block of proteins and without proteins there is simply no life. Now you can say: yes, but we have too much nitrogen here, or we have too much phosphate. But why is that? Because that's how we calculated it. Natura 2000 sites have been established. They were created. The Netherlands has done so itself. We ourselves have put very tight management measures on that. There was, for example, an area that was said to have five kinds of vessels. Now they've scaled it up: there should be 15 kinds of vessels.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u36	Thank you, Mrs Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u37	Yes, but that is very fundamental, because they are nitrogen-sensitive. Yeah, and there you go! The problem is created by itself. You should imagine...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u38	This answer is really long enough, Mrs Faber. Finally, Mr Karakus.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u39	Actually, no answer. My question was very specific. Mrs Faber, we are above phosphate law; what is your solution to get back under that? That was the question. We propose solutions by saying: to be safe under the ceiling. But you're still above the ceiling. We're talking about phosphate rights here. How we get to phosphate is interesting, but what is your solution?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u40	Finally, Mrs Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u41	That phosphate ceiling just has to go or go up. That is my solution, because it is a created problem...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u42	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u43	And we're not gonna build a swamp in the desert, either. That's what we're doing. In the Netherlands we do the opposite: we are in a fertile delta and there we are going to build poor lands like heaths. That's asking for trouble. So far.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u44	Thank you. I call Mr Schalk on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u45	Thank you, Mr President. In the past, skimming was mainly used to churn good butter, but nowadays the word "creaming" has a negative sound, because when skimming you just lose a part of your livestock. Mr. Chairman. The law we are discussing today deals with a number of issues that clarify for which young cattle phosphate rights are needed. It is clear that this is about the dairy. In order to prevent the young cattle from being kept out of the phosphate rights system through livestock farming, it has now been chosen to include only the part of the young cattle in the meat livestock holding intended to obtain a calf under the phosphate rights system. It is a bit shady for me how this relates to the State aid decision. The State aid decision talks about phosphate rights for 17,000 dairy farms, and the number of farms that have now been granted rights is above 20 000. Furthermore, rights have been granted to holdings for young cattle of meat cattle, which no longer need these rights and can sell them. Has the European Commission explicitly authorised this? Furthermore, the existing derogation for young cattle for suckler cows is laid down by law. The most important part of this law is to prevent unnecessary skimming of livestock. That skimming stabs the SGP in the throat like a bone. In any trade between farmers in which livestock is traded, these farmers run into the problem of skimming. The control of phosphate rights is done on the basis of milk production. That is not exactly predictable and that means that it is regularly happening that at the end of the year phosphate rights need to be leased to be convenient, or that they have rights to be released. These are transactions that are accompanied by skimming. This bill attempts to alleviate this problem somewhat, but my group still has a few questions about it. The measure has been made generic, as if all farmers are in the same situation. Is it really not possible to make a better arrangement, so that there is more room for large livestock farmers and for the leasing of phosphate rights more appropriate to the size of the farm?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u46	I have two questions for Mr Schalk. The first one is about the phosphate ceiling. That's set because we emit too much. The imposition of phosphate rights is intended to come below the phosphate ceiling, and that has now stopped because that goal has been achieved. So what is Mr Schalk talking about when he talks about taking up rights? Because I don't think that's the issue in this law. Secondly, he points out that skimming leads to a reduction in the livestock of farmers. In fact, I do not think that is the case either, because it is only when a farmer sells rights voluntarily that he is being skimmed. That's when skimming takes place. It's not like the government's coming to get phosphate rights from farmers. Does Mr Schalk share my opinion?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u47	I am a little surprised, because Mrs Kluit indicates that we are below the phosphate duty ceiling. She has also spoken on behalf of the Labour Party, and Mr. Kara... Karakus. Excuse me; I know him as Hamit and that speaks much easier.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u48	His name is Mr. Karakus.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u49	He just indicated that he thinks we're still on top of it. We're about to hear that from the Minister, but I think we're just under it. Then the second, the skimming. In fact, at the time when a farmer sells cattle, the skimming actually takes up part of that cattle. This can then no longer be used for ordinary business operations.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u50	In order to limit the Minister's response: because we work on the border in this way, we are sometimes underneath it and sometimes above it. So it's both true.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u51	It can't be.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u52	Secondly, in his reply, the Minister indicated that the taking-up of rights is over because we are below the norm. We indicate that we're above it, because we're just taking it out of the measurements. But you didn't answer my question. Surely it is always after a farmer himself has chosen to renounce his animals that the phosphate rights are sold? It's not like the government's coming for it. So I just don't think it's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u53	With regard to the first, it would be very special if the Group of the Green Left had its own measurement system. I don't think you can get under it and above it. Either we're under something or we're upstairs somewhere. The Minister could also use two measurement systems, but I advise him not to. So I think we should hear the Minister's answer to the question whether we are above or below that phosphate ceiling. Then there is the second point. You can sell in any way you want. I think Mrs Kluit agrees with me that farmers who sell cattle know that the skimming is taking place. That's because we made an agreement on that. It's in the law. Of course, it is a free choice for a farmer to sell his cattle or not. If you reason like that, that farmer, if he exercises his free choice and sells a cow, will accept that there will be skimming as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u54	Mrs. Kluit, finally? You're done. Please continue your argument, Mr. Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u55	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In the field of phosphate and nitrogen, the most precise measures are taken up to 0.001 moles per hectare, and here it all suddenly has to be very generic. I understand that we cannot change the current law anymore, and as far as my group is concerned this is better than nothing. And we want it to be introduced quickly for the past year. I would like to thank those Members who helped to deal with this bill with speed. My group still has questions about the future. Recent figures from the CBS show that both phosphate and nitrogen ceilings are being exceeded. Will the Minister look at the increase in the cream-free quantity to, for example, 200 kilograms? My group is also in favour of reducing the overall rate of skimming from 20% to 10%. The law states that the high rate of skimming is reduced if the total number of phosphate rights falls below the dairy phosphate ceiling. This is not yet the case, but it was possible to lease skimming-free because a number of phosphate rights for dairy farming are below the ceiling. It is my impression that Brussels seems to be more guided by the actual production of dairy farming compared to the ceiling than by the total number of phosphate rights. At 10%, too, there is still evidence of skimming. My question is: does the Minister want to speed up the reduction in the rate of skimming?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u56	The reduction from 20% to 10% is a well-known and old position of the SGP. At the same time, you know that we still have a derogation issue that we are negotiating with the European Union. You know that we also have a nitrate problem. Then why do you come up with proposals of this kind, which only increase the problems for farmers?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u57	I'm asking because there's room right now. We ask the Minister to look into that and use that space. We ask him not to go up to that 20% at the skimming rate. A simple calculation shows that if you sell five cows, you lose one.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u58	You're not answering my question. You want to continue to the edges. While we are totally above it and have a derogation issue that still has to be answered, you are increasing the problems. I find that irresponsible behaviour of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u59	I can, but I'm trying to go into the positions we currently have and what this bill is about. I use this immediately to ask whether the Minister sees any possibility of lowering. If he doesn't feel that way, we'll hear about it later, but it just seems like a good and open question. As is well known, the SGP has also tried to move where it was needed in previous legislative proposals, but we would also like to make the best possible use of the space for farmers.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u60	Mr. Schalk, how important do you think...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u61	Through the chairman, Mr. Karakus.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u62	How important do you think we're under the ceiling? How important do you think it is that we're way below the ceiling?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u63	Would you like to talk through the chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u64	Mr President, how important...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u65	Yes, thank you. It's pretty clear. Mr Schalk, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u66	I don't think the chairman's gonna like it. Mr. Chairman. Of course, my group also considers it important that we are below that ceiling. In his interruption to Mrs Faber, Mr Karakus indicated that, in his opinion, we are still above it. I think we're under it, but we're about to hear it from the Minister. Of course, I think that is important, as is the case with many farmers. Because they have already invested a great deal to ensure that we have come together under the phosphate duty ceiling. I commend them for that. My question now is simply: where there is space? We have a ceiling for a reason and if there is space now, you can say that we will soon lower the ceiling, but then you will be very tight.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u67	Thank you. Finally, Mr. Karakus.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u68	Mr. Chairman. I don't think anyone here has made a plea to just lower the ceiling. It is only within the system that we have been given this information during the technical briefing that we are at risk of going back above or far above the ceiling. That's the risk. That is what we always point out. So that's why you're asking how important it is. In other words, if you look at the system and at the proposal that is now on the table, are you sure that this will not give us additional phosphate emissions? That's my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u69	Mr. Chairman. Of course I am not sure, because at the time that skimming happens again, that phosphate will be added. As soon as it is removed, you have fewer animals and thus less phosphate. That is clear and logical, but we are talking about farmers who have simply tried to do their job as well as possible and who are now under the phosphate duty ceiling. And now there are a few parties in this Chamber that say: we're under it, but it would be great if they were under it a lot further and so cream off. I just don't think that's appropriate for those farmers.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u70	In any case, after everything that has changed, we can see that farmers are up against the ceiling. And against the ceiling in the most literal sense, because those farmers don't know what to do anymore. Every time, politics comes up with new rules, new accounting rules. Those farmers invest in low-emission barn floors, in the feed track, in air scrubbers, and these farmers are literally going crazy and beyond that. The question is whether we, as politicians, are doing well to make this constant addition of additional measures more difficult for farmers and to create more problems for animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u71	Mr Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u72	One more thing, Mr. Chairman. In 1988 the VVD said: two more years and then emissions will have to be drastically reduced, otherwise we are going to reduce livestock significantly. None of that happened at all. We can all take care of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u73	I am not a member of the VVD; so let me leave that last remark to Mr Van Ballekom. If he wants to respond to that, but I don't think he wants to. I agree with Mr Koffeman that all these measures are driving farmers crazy. That's what they're gonna be like with all the math and all the shit that's going on around that one moment of measurement. This is precisely a small solution for them, because here they don't have to get crazy about all kinds of complicated calculations, because they get a little space to deal flexibly with that moment of measurement with phosphate rights.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u74	I am going to give Mr Schalk the opportunity to finish his speech. Mr Koffeman, a short question?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u75	About that little bit of space. We know that we are dealing with a situation which is not to be blamed on farmers, but on the regulations that have a high degree of fraud sensitivity in that sector. We know about that whole I&R scandal, where hundreds of police reports have been...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u76	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u77	...that this was because farmers couldn't go anywhere. We are making it even more difficult for farmers to tighten up these regulations. So the parties who argue that we should make it easier for farmers make it more difficult for farmers. That's my point.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u78	Thank you, and then continue your speech, Mr. Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u79	Mr. Chairman. I think Mr Koffeman and I differ on what is easier for farmers. Is it easier for them to have that skimming at the time they have to or do not have to re-lease it, or is it easier for them to use this method, which might allow them to keep their business more balanced? I think I know what the farmers want.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u80	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u81	They will welcome these measures. I also have a technical question. Is it true that phosphate rights which are now set aside for the phosphate bank after skimming can also be deducted from the total number of duties? And another crucial question, because for large companies in particular, the 100 kilos can be insufficient: is the 100 kilos really the maximum, or does the Minister also see room to increase this if the figures show that problems for larger companies are not being solved? Mr. Chairman. The Minister has specifically asked for this bill to be dealt with quickly so that it can be applied retroactively in 2021 and 2022. Is the Minister prepared to inform this Chamber in the course of this spring whether this law did what he had to do? Finally. In the sector there is much uncertainty about the new derogation. This may not be clear until the summer, when the fertilising season is already in full swing. In what way will the Minister prevent farmers from being dealt with in slow decision-making? Mr President, I look forward to the answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u82	Thank you, Mr. Schalk. I call Mr Pijlman, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u83	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to congratulate the Minister of LNV, Staghouwer, on his appointment and wish him every success. Minister, you have the wonderful task of guiding agriculture towards a sustainable future. To this end, you are supported by an ambitious government agreement and many means of helping farmers to be sustainable, so that agriculture and livestock farming in a densely populated country remain possible and nature no longer suffers from too much nitrogen and manure emissions. And that's what's needed. It is necessary very quickly, because we seem to be in a position to shut down construction activities, for example, because of nitrogen emissions and the fragmentation of vulnerable nature. Mr. Chairman. I know the Minister as a deputy in Groningen who managed to keep his back straight in a major crisis, but also always had an eye on the interests of farmers. This can help to make this ministerial a success. The D66 Group wishes you a great deal of wisdom. The question now before us is whether the proposal before us is a little bit of support for the sustainability of agriculture or a new obstacle. The draft law contains three elements which are coherent but which are also very different. Why are the three parts merged into one bill, I ask the Minister. In the previous period of this Chamber, we adopted the Hoekstra motion, tabled by the current Foreign Minister, in order to be very reluctant about it, so that the Senate can assess every proposal, every aspect on its merits. The first issue before us is the young cattle scheme, which entered into force in July 2018 and now needs to be revised by a ruling from the Board of Appeal for Business. It should be made clearer to farmers for which animals phosphate rights are needed and for which they are not. The proposal makes this clear for both farmers and enforcers. I ask the Minister if the proposal has now been reviewed on the basis of legal certainty. I'm gonna skip the second part. The third proposal, the renovation lease, can help the new cabinet achieve its ambitions as expressed in the government agreement. After all, moving farms in the coming years will be an instrument to achieve nature conservation, as well as a significant reduction in livestock. An AMvB is needed to determine whether the operation is feasible. It should also provide for enforcement. Can the Minister promise that the AMvB will also be presented to this Chamber? Then I come to the second measure, which the D66 Group has a lot of trouble with, the 100 kilos of skimming-free lease, the completion of an adopted motion of VVD and CDA in the Dutch Parliament of 2019. This bill was submitted by the previous cabinet. Our group is now assessing it in the light of the government agreement of the new cabinet. Does this proposal contribute to the objectives or does it make it more difficult for agriculture and livestock to move forward? First of all, let us note that the 100 kilograms of skimming-free lease does not, in theory, increase the total environmental load from nitrogen and phosphate. That's a good thing. The explanatory statement states that the proposal seeks to give farmers a little more flexibility. For example, if a few cows are calving a bit earlier than planned, the farmer can already have a phosphate problem, says the explanatory statement. By allowing back and forth leasing within a calendar year, that problem can be solved. You could say, "Who could be against it?" But we do not understand why the previous cabinet opted for 100 kilograms of redemption-free lease per company per year. The average farmer in the Netherlands has 105 cows. That's very strong internationally, so a few kilos per farm should be enough to help that farmer. I'm a little plastic, but it's no different than 0.7 kilos of phosphate. You then come at 73.5 kilos per average company, so also larger companies would have been helped with for example 10 kilos extra on lease basis, but the government opts for the tenfold. Why are you proposing this? After all, there is one major disadvantage to the 100 kilos of phosphate-free lease: the build-up of the phosphate bank decreases by 10%, while you need this phosphate bank very much to ensure that circular agriculture finally gets the wind in the sails. In the reply to my question, you say that the proposal does indeed fill the phosphate bank with 10% less, but that you find that acceptable given the flexibility envisaged. Well, you can explain that to me again. Why weaken an instrument that you need very much, when it could have been otherwise by giving each company some space? The proposal also reduces the shrinkage of the manure surplus, while admitting in the reply that you do not know whether the Seventh Programme of Action on Nitrates provides enough reduction and you are negotiating it with the European Commission. You even write that it may be necessary to come up with additional proposals on manure legislation in order to achieve the objective. If you write that, I think you'll suspect it. This proposal focuses on phosphate, but we will have to look more fully at reducing nitrogen, phosphate and nitrate. In order to maintain a derogation, the Netherlands, with our agriculture and livestock farming, which also do a lot of beautiful things, absolutely needs a well-stocked phosphate bank that allows the transition to land-based agriculture and livestock farming. That is the future of agriculture in the Netherlands, which is perspective for young farmers, while the bank is declining in size with this proposal. To be honest, we find this incomprehensible in the light of the coalition agreement. I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. Those who read this bill once again notice that the average farmer in the Netherlands is suffering from a huge regulatory burden that is almost impossible and not enforceable to the regulator. This proposal adds new rules. D66 wants to see a sharp decline in livestock, a real circular farming and livestock farming, and for farmers perspective and much less rules. For the time being, I believe that this proposal, certainly the second part of it, does not contribute to this, but I am, of course, happy to be persuaded by the Minister and to await his reply before we reach a final verdict. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u84	Thank you, Mr. Arrowman. Mr Koffeman has the floor on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u85	Thank you, Mr President. Today we are talking about a rather complicated system of phosphate rights, about buying and selling, leasing and leasing. This policy only knows losers, but then with a z. the farmer's life becomes more and more complicated, just like that of his animals. In the past we let cows graze in grassy pastures, where also meadow birds felt very at home, and the farmer could earn a good sandwich, a period where the agricultural family farm has good memories. No cowmunitions with hundreds of animals that stand in stables year round and graze in former rainforests, no jungle of ever-changing regulations. As long ago as 1988, I said just now, the VVD gave the agricultural sector two years' time, I repeat: two years' time, to reduce ammonia emissions from animal manure itself. Should technical measures prove insufficient, shrinkage of livestock would be negotiable for the VVD. Since then the VVD has talked about this even more. Nothing came of it, and that while dairy farming is the cause of many problems in our country, such as nitrogen, particulate matter, greenhouse gases, phosphate problems, natural problems, manure problems and problems for surface water. All problems that could be reduced by reducing the number of animals in our most densely stocked country in the world, but which are repeatedly faced with symptom control. Air scrubbers, low-emission shed floors, also called magic floors, and a low-protein feed track that should reduce emissions. Cows have to deliver more and more milk and literally get burned up faster and faster. Cows could easily grow 20 years old, but go to slaughter after four years, after being artificially pregnant four times and losing their calf immediately after birth because their milk has to be given a different destination. Their breast milk is sold for three dimes per litre. And in the meantime, the problems are building up and sustainable solutions are getting further and further out of the picture. May I take you to the predicted problems arising from the modified feed trail? Siert-Jan Boersema, veterinarian at Animal Clinic De Rijp, indicates that the cows suffer from phosphorous deficiency as a result of the symptom control, tangle with their health, with lameness and milk disease, sometimes with dramatic consequences, such as drainage or mortality. A combination of centrally established fertilising standards, dry summers and a limited phosphorus content in raw and concentrated feed, resulting in phosphorus deficiency for the animals. Experts speak of a downward spiral as a result of government measures. In two years, Folkert Postma, veterinarian at Zoepencliniek Wolvega, saw 30 cows being removed in his practice with fractures and tendon damage due to excessive milk production and the associated loss of phosphorus and related health problems. Complicated regulation has a greater focus on European regulation, derogation and the reduction of cross-border, cross-border business practices, but is seriously failing farmers and animals. I talk regularly with dairy farmers and I hear over and over and over again that they are distraught by ever-increasing investments resulting from the regulation. The number of dairy farmers who choose to sell the farm and subsequent emigration increases explosively. According to recent statistics from the Central Bureau of Statistics, the number of dairy farmers will fall by 30% over the next 10 years, without substantially reducing the number of animals. That makes it so harsh that the adapted system that we are discussing today is not aimed at improving the situation but at business as usual, even if we know that we do not have time to postpone real measures and even if we know that procrasticisation in the field of real measures will be a costly mistake. The reconstruction of Martin Kuiper and Rik Rutten in yesterday's NRC was a significant insight into how the new administrative culture affects the nitrogen approach or, rather, works around it. Everyone knew that the nitrogen approach in the coalition agreement would be far from sufficient to achieve necessary objectives. It takes too far for this debate to discuss this in detail, but the bottomline is: we do not do what is necessary. We move with objectives, measures and budgets because it seems impossible to come to a comparison with coalition partners, with opposing interests and views, and we leave the problems as they are. This morning, in the Volkskrant, there was still a big confirmation of the same story. Business as usual, the proverbial rearranging of the seats on the deck of the Titanic. It won't solve anything, but it'll keep you off the street. This raises questions that we need to discuss during this debate and that ideally should finally be clarified. Mr President, back to phosphate rights and trade in them. The first question that should be asked is whether it is wise to establish a system that is so complex and difficult to enforce in a sector which is under great pressure and is therefore partly responsible? This is a very sensitive case of fraud. The 2018 identification and registration fraud is still fresh in memory and was closely associated with the phosphate reduction system. 140 minutes were made by a very understaffed and overloaded NVWA. The present legislative proposal, which, moreover, came about after a devastating ruling by the College of Occupation for Industry, once again refers to a virtually unwavering puzzle of meat cows, dairy cows, suckler cows and cows intended to get calves, with all the risks of confusion and possible fraud. Temporary phosphate leasing contracts, which may or may not be skimmed, offer the appearance of accuracy, but do not offer any solutions to the problems of nature linked to phosphate rights, to surface water problems, to nitrogen and greenhouse gas emissions. The Minister informed us in the written round of questions that the scheme will have no effect on the number of animals, no effect on the quality of nature and no effect on the major challenges that this government is facing at the moment and which we can expect will finally be resolved and no longer be pushed forward. As regards yesterday's article in NRC on the shaky handling of the nitrogen problem, can the Minister explain why under this law nothing has been done to allow the scope to also affect the number of animals kept and the state of conservation of nature around the farms concerned? Can the Minister indicate how a lack of enforcement capacity can clarify a complex and fraud-sensitive system of netting? The Programmatic Approach Nitrogen is still fresh in memory. When my colleague Esther Ouwehand in the Lower House said during the debate that the PAS could never stand by the judge, one of the architects of the PAS, Ger Koopmans of the CDA, said, and I quote: well, then our entrepreneurs have benefited from it for a number of years. That is precisely the short-term thinking that has brought us into the current problems. Due to the short-term pleasure of entrepreneurs who have benefited from it for a few years, construction is now stationary and there are many problems that could easily have been avoided. Mr. Chairman. How does the Minister see the fact that farmers now have to go deep into phosphate accounting and, as soon as they are just used to this system, they will be told that there are other tasks to be done in the area of nitrogen, fine dust, buy-out, greenhouse gases, failing technical measures, derogation under pressure, nature objectives and reducing the number of animals? That's what farmers are waiting for. If we stick our heads in the sand now, then we are seriously failing these farmers. Mr. Chairman. I also mention animal welfare problems and a ban on the transport of high-quality animals to the slaughterhouse, which is still happening. In short, why are the problems not addressed in full, but only in terms of salami politics at the expense of farmers and animals? Can the Minister give us a hint of the veil here and now? We do not need a policy debate for that; I very much agree with Mr Kluit that we will have to approach the problem in full in which direction the cabinet is finally going to solve the nitrogen problems, how the cabinet is going to achieve the nature objectives, how the cabinet intends to reduce the number of animals in the Dutch livestock sector, and what number can we think of as the final goal? That's gotta be negotiable. How does the cabinet intend to offer new prospects to agricultural family farms, of which six to seven are now stopping a day due to lack of perspective? How does the government intend to distribute the burden of nitrogen, greenhouse gases, particulate matter and natural disasters among the different sectors, not only agriculture but also the other sectors? Make choices in that and make clear what those choices will be like. At the moment, the aviation industry and the agricultural sector think they're gonna get away with it, but at some point someone's gonna have to tie in. How is the cabinet going to achieve circular agriculture, while large quantities of concentrated feed are still being imported from former rainforests? Are we gonna stop the soy import? Is that where we're gonna charge taxes? Can the cabinet clarify that? You can pursue circular agriculture, but how are you going to put that into practice? Does the government believe that the Netherlands can remain the butcher and milkman of the world, while we see that the production system is stalled, because we are heavily burdened with environmental and nature problems which, in combination with current business operations, appear to be unsustainable? Can the Minister indicate how he intends to bring about an improvement in the number of animals in livestock farming along with the reduction of pandemic risks seen by virologists such as Thijs Kicken and Marion Koopmans in connection with livestock farming and, in particular, with livestock density? What percentage of the production of animal products should the Minister be for domestic use and what percentage for exports? We do not need to hear figures until the decimal point, but a target rate would be very welcome in the context of "governing is forward-looking"? Today's most pressing question is, as far as I am concerned, when will the cabinet come up with an integrated approach that will move farmers and citizens? I am talking about a movement that is moving in the right direction with regard to electoral promises and policy objectives. When will farmers finally be able to derive certainty from that? When is the government going to openly criticise in Brussels the fact that brakes and gas are being controlled in livestock farming at the same time? I mention the Green Deal which is promising in the area of protein transition, but which is at the same time severely hampered by subsidies for the promotion of meat and dairy products. For citizens, these are incomprehensible contradictions. The cabinet has also indicated that it does not see much in this, but what is the cabinet going to do actively in Brussels to put an end to this? Mr. Chairman. We must not allow phosphate accounting to be the lightning rod of real policy that sees real check-out targets that do not lead to a standstill in the goals we have set ourselves and each other, but to the immediate achievement of goals after a period of endless delay. No future music that we will ever talk about again, but realistic goals that we can now take forward. Mr. Chairman. I look forward to the Minister answering our questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u86	Thank you, Mr. Coffeeman. Mr Janssen has the floor on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u87	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, my group's congratulations to the Minister on his appointment. Personally, it is a warm reunion for me with the Minister, albeit in a different position. Mr. Chairman. How many patches can you stick on an open wound and how useful is that? How useful is sticking a patch after two years? Because that is what is being proposed. After all, this bill is a response to a ruling of the Board of Appeal for Business in April 2019 that wiped out a 2018 policy rule. My first question then is why a legislative change was not immediately chosen. My second question is whether the amendment of the law is still in line with the changed reality that we are living in. 2022 is no longer in the world of phosphate and nitrogen. Is this proposed amendment really still the solution to the problems we face today, or does it add to the problem? And what has happened in the last two years since the ruling of the Board of Appeal? The Minister himself states that this bill is intended to clarify for livestock farmers and keepers which animals require phosphate rights. But what was the practice like in the last two years? Was there no enforcement pending this bill? Was it freedom, happiness? I'd like a response and a look back from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. A quote. "This legislative proposal envisages some changes to the phosphate rights system that have no impact on achieving the target range of the Nitrate Directive and the Water Framework Directive," said the Minister. My group is disappointed that the measures do not have a positive impact on achieving the objectives of, for example, the Nitrate Directive and the Water Framework Directive. We think that's a missed opportunity. Can we really afford to take one-dimensional measures now, I ask the Minister? Why was it not possible for the measures to have a positive impact? If there are no negative effects, 'environmental pressure is neutral', in the words of the Minister, moreover, will still have to be seen in practice. This depends on implementation, compliance and monitoring. Paper versus reality. If the amendments are environmentally neutral, this means that any infringement will result in a negative impact on the targets to be achieved under the Nitrate Directive and the Water Framework Directive, for example. What about the ban on the deterioration of the Birds and Habitats Directives if infringements have a negative effect, I ask the Minister. Has the Minister really discussed this in Brussels? Is what is being proposed here in this legislative proposal, future-proof, in view of forthcoming tightenings? Or are we gonna settle something that's gonna have to be reversed soon? Mr. Chairman. My group has serious doubts about the feasibility and, in particular, the enforcement of this bill. In general, the inclusion of exceptions in laws rarely leads to greater clarity and clarity. It mainly leads to more raffle edges in implementation and enforcement. In every corner a hole can be found. The Minister's replies in the note to the report on monitoring and enforcement certainly do not reassure my group. In order to be able to enforce criminal law, an offence will first have to be detected and the offence will have to be established. Only then will the D.A.'s office and the criminal justice officer come into the picture. Can the Minister indicate to me how much extra human resources has been made available at the National Agency for Entrepreneurship in the Netherlands and, above all, at the Dutch Food and Service Authority for monitoring and enforcing the proposed changes? They're quite complex. Or are these already overloaded services still doing this? What does the Minister expect? What can he expect? Has there been any consultation with the D.A. about possible prosecutions? There too, there is a huge shortage of capacity. Do they even have the capacity to prosecute if it comes to that? Mr. Chairman. For situations in which a holding has exceeded its phosphate right, the Fertilisers Act empowers the Minister to provide that the kept dairy should not at any time exceed the quantity fixed by him. This will then be enforced under administrative law, says the Minister, for example by means of a penalty payment charge. Now a penalty charge sounds, I know from experience, always tough, but a penalty charge is used to undo a situation in violation of the law within a given period of time, if the penalty payment is at least high enough to have effect, because too low periodic penalty payments in a long series are simply a form of tolerance. But evil has already happened, the extra production and the emissions, and the negative effect of that too. That can also not be undone, so there is a lasting negative effect. Can the Minister indicate how he is going to complete this power? Does he consider it discretionary or an obligation to enforce? Mr President, concluding. It is strange to my group that, after the ruling of the Board of Appeal for Business in 2019, the need to correct the incorrect assessment of the policy rule by law has not been felt before. I also think it is significant that a policy rule was first chosen. I think that's a wrong assessment. In addition, the world has changed considerably in terms of nitrate and nitrogen. Nevertheless, the Minister is calling for a legislative change with neutral environmental pressure, while every step we take should contribute to solving the phosphate problem and not to maintaining it. Concerns about implementation and enforcement mean that my group expects that the amendments now proposed will be neutral for the environment only on paper. In reality, any violation will be a transgression, and it will only lead us further away from our goal. For my group, therefore, the solution lies not on an office in The Hague, but on the farmyard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u88	Thank you, Mr. Janssen. Those overruns, those... Mrs. Klut.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u89	I have a question for Mr Janssen, because he specifically addresses the negative consequences of poor enforcement and its follow-up. But inherent in the proposal is, in my opinion, a deterioration for the environment, because of the shrinking of the phosphate bank structure and the risk of the derogation contained in it. Derogation companies do better for water quality. If we lose that, we can see the consequences. Does Mr Janssen see that too?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u90	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u91	And does he share the Minister's analysis that it is a neutral proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u92	No. On paper, you can bend it so it looks neutral, but that's on paper. In my opinion, this is not going to happen in practice. You can try to talk straight in accounting, but I think it's gonna work out differently in practice. I therefore share Mrs Kluit's view.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u93	Thank you, Mr. Janssen. Mrs Prins, on behalf of the CDA, has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u94	Mr. Chairman. I would like to begin by welcoming, on behalf of the CDA Group, the new Minister for Agriculture, Nature and Food Quality. We wish him every success in his challenging assignments. Mr. Chairman. The CDA Group welcomes the proposed changes to the phosphate rights system. If it turns out that part of the phosphate rights law in practice creates uncertainty and cannot be resolved by a policy rule, it is advisable to amend the law so that it provides more clarity and is more enforceable. In this context, our group notes that the farmers in our country are facing many more uncertainties and uncertainties. These are uncertainties that go far beyond today's more practical issues. Many farmers are seeking and anxiously awaiting the government's future vision of agriculture. From what perspective can they make their own plans for the future? The CDA Group is calling for urgent attention to be given to this. Mr. Chairman. The phosphate rights system is adapted to three parts. Firstly, there is a more clear definition of when phosphate rights are needed for young cattle. Only young cattle destined for slaughter do not require phosphate rights. In fact, that's how we understand, that's a legal description of current practice. The explanatory memorandum states that meat farmers with young cattle intended only for slaughter are exempted from phosphate rights and that they are required to surrender their phosphate rights. Does this mean that phosphate rights will be handed over to the phosphate bank, that 20% will then be skimmed and that the remainder will be made available for land-based dairy farms? Have we understood that the maintenance of the distinction between calves destined for calving and calves intended for slaughter is a good thing? Mr. Chairman. A second amendment concerns the introduction of the skimming-free lease up to 100 kg, which can be used in one calendar year. The CDA Group welcomes the fact that a practical solution has been found for everyday practice. Sometimes the animals produce more than calculated and than expected. At the same time, we are aware that there must be no temptation to look for borders here again. This could have a negative impact on the phosphate ceiling and on the phosphate area for young dairy farmers. We ask the Minister to monitor the use of the skimming-free lease and, if necessary, to intervene. Mr. Chairman. The last change is to allow for innovation lease through a general measure of governance. We believe that this is a good thing. If farmers want to improve their farms in favour of a lower footprint of CO, nitrogen and/or phosphate, or move their farms to areas that are better suited, for example not in the vicinity of Natura 2000 areas, so that a better balance is struck between nature and agriculture, the CDA Group welcomes this. We would like to know whether such conditions become part of this general measure.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u95	I would like to go back to Mrs Prins' speech, to that 100 kilograms of skimming-free lease. In your introduction, you spoke of perspective for farmers, but what do you think of the 10% reduction in phosphate banks? That is precisely the future for young farmers.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u96	I think we need to find a balance here between everyday practice for farmers who are now farmers and the phosphate bank on the other hand. That's where we're looking for the balance. I believe that this measure has struck a good balance.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u97	You think it is a good balance that the prospect of the future for young farmers is taken back by 10%?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u98	I think we should see that 10% in the right perspective. I took a look. I think we are very well below the phosphate ceiling. From that perspective, I think this can be accepted.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u99	I don't think we're gonna agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u100	I think so, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u101	I don't even care about the phosphate ceiling, and I understand that flexibility. I do care about the decrease in the phosphate bank, because we need it to get that transition going.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u102	I agree. That is why I also state and I also ask the Minister to monitor to what extent the use of this skimming-free lease is not going to grow rapidly, but that it is more in line with everyday practice. Experience has been gained in this respect, as I read in the Minister's replies. From that perspective, I say that if that's the basis, we can live with it. Further growth I also specifically ask that monitoring be carried out. I also ask the Minister to intervene if necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u103	I am indeed concerned with the final point. It is a good statement to monitor and intervene where necessary. But if the proposal is adopted, the farmers are legally engaged. Then how do you see intervention? What do you mean by that? It is a good point towards the Minister, but what possibilities do you see for yourself?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u104	I see plenty of possibilities, I think, just as the Minister will see. At the moment when something too much is being used, you will again see how you can take action to do so. To this end, the Minister has a wide range of instruments.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u105	Mr. Karakus, aren't you done yet, please? No. Mrs. Klut.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u106	I am curious to hear the opinion of the CDA group as to why the skimming element is needed in the lease. The problem was the short-term acquisition of rights. Then the lease could be a solution. But why, in the opinion of the CDA, is there a need for skimming?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u107	I didn't say skimming is necessary; we're talking about a skimming-free lease. I asked a question about the skimming. As far as I am concerned, this was about the phosphate rights that meat farmers have to submit and deliver back. Then my question is whether, before it goes to the phosphate bank, 20% goes off as is the case with the other phosphate rights. That's the check I asked the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u108	I'll ask my question differently, because I didn't put it right. My question is why, in the opinion of the CDA, it is necessary to make it a cream-free lease. Why wouldn't the solution have been just to come up with a lease construction where the price is just the price and is being skimmed? We wouldn't have had the problem in the phosphate bank. Wouldn't that have been better?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u109	No, I think we're looking for a balance here. When we talk about the border, we now offer farmers the opportunity not to be punished immediately in a manner that is legally permitted if once a number of animals produce more than expected and budgeted. If you don't, I think and fear that farmers will feel more tempted to see how they can arrange it. So I think this is right for everyday practice, in which the animal is different from the other year. So in that respect, they're just a bit of people.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u110	It's not quite clear to me yet. Now a farmer when he unexpectedly has something extra has to buy phosphate rights, right? Surely there's no legal way you can cope with an unexpected increase without having those rights?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u111	No, but that's exactly why the lease rights are being used. That gives a farmer an opportunity to see if he can handle things in a legally permitted way.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u112	One more time. Yeah, I get that. But my question is why the creaming-free part is then necessary. If you do it without skimming, the price between lease and buy stays the same. Now the lease becomes cheaper and so it becomes more tempting to start using it permanently. I just don't understand, and that's why I asked you why it's necessary to attach that financial benefit to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u113	I do not see any financial advantage in this because we see this as an occasional thing. That is also the reason why, from this occasional approach, we should be helping farmers at that time why we are expressly asking the Minister to monitor this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u114	Finally, Mrs Kluit.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u115	But that's not in the proposal right now. So perhaps my question is for you, but also for the Minister: should that be dealt with as far as you are concerned in the proposal or in a promise from the Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u116	I think we are not asking this question for nothing. I hope to get a positive answer to that too.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u117	Let's talk circular agriculture. Mr. Pijlman already went into that. On the one hand, this is a choice for dairy cows, which is given more room, but on the other hand it is at the expense of circular agriculture and the sustainability of agriculture. But I can't hear you say anything about that. So you deliberately make a choice for dairy cows and not for circular agriculture.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u118	You don't hear me say that. I have said something else: I think it is acceptable that the growth of the phosphate bank should be reduced by 10%. That's what I said.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u119	Okay. But during that technical briefing it was also explicitly stated that this is at the expense of the sustainability of agriculture, circular agriculture. That's what I asked, and it was just confirmed. The consequence of your choice is that this is at the expense of circular agriculture.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u120	I have just indicated that we are looking for a balance between everyday practice and the further promotion of circular agriculture. That's what the phosphate bank is for. We'll find the balance in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u121	You are not looking for this balance, because you are making a choice at the expense of circular agriculture.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u122	No, I would point out that we are expressly seeking a balance between the practice of today and the legitimate plans for the future, for circular agriculture.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u123	My final question is, what is the balance? Explain that to me, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u124	The balance is that we want to help the current farmers if, occasionally, that is the question that I have also asked the Minister, show that we are doing justice to everyday practice and at the same time continue to work very hard to fill the phosphate bank. I am pleased that the rights of livestock farming go back to the phosphate bank, which will allow more room for young dairy and meat-farming.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u125	That's not in the proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u126	I did read that in the Minister's explanatory statement.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u127	I wonder what the Minister's gonna say to that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u128	Mr. Chairman. The CDA Group realises that this change in the phosphate rights system is a small part of the overall agricultural policy with many issues, including the derogation, the Nitrates Directive and many other issues in the present and present, and the long-term perspective for agriculture in our country. This deserves great attention: care, but also speed. The proposed modification of the phosphate rights system does not alter the objectives of this law, as is clear from the European Commission's approval, but does ensure that the law is compatible with everyday practice and deserves our support.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u129	Thank you, Mrs. Prince. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the first term? That is not the case. Then we have come to the end of the first term from the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u130	We will continue this debate later today after the evening break.
