ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u1	The next item is the continuation of the first term of the Chamber's examination of the legislative proposal 36042, adoption of the Decision extending for the fifth time the duration of the provisions of the Temporary Law measures covid-19, and the Draft Decision extending for the sixth time the duration of the provisions of the Temporary Law measures covid-19.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u2	I give the floor to Mr Van der Voort on behalf of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u3	Mr. Chairman. I repeat first that I am professionally involved in covid care, but nevertheless, as a member of this Chamber, will properly assess the legislation in question and debate it with the Chamber and the directors. Mr. Chairman. We are pleased to be able to debate here during the period of relative calm with regard to the covid pandemic. New variants have surfaced again, but at the moment the situation is more or less as we knew before this pandemic: keeping no distance from each other, coming together, celebrating and celebrating life. We have all missed that very much over the past two years. It is nice that this cabinet could immediately reduce the restrictive measures and rebuild a normal society when it took office. This means that at the moment there is less need for legislation that limits living, celebrating, working together and learning together. The law on the approval of the fifth extension is still before us. In its assessment, it is mainly a matter of looking back. After all, we are at the end of the period in which this law regulates legal basis. Was the continuation of the Twm proportional in the last three months? In retrospect, the measures contained in this fifth extension were largely unnecessary in order to continue the fight against the pandemic. In this light, the D66 Group considers that the measures provided for by the fifth extension have indeed been active by the Cabinet for no longer than necessary and have been proportionate. Moreover, there were no implementation problems. We discussed in this Chamber in March, ahead of today, the conditions for accepting this fifth extension of the Twm. At that time, the KB was already on its way for the fifth extension to be published in the Official Journal. So no further adjustments could be made in advance, as far as we, as the First Chamber, already have control over them. Mr De Boer then, in a motion also supported by our group, set out a number of conditions under which a fifth and possibly sixth extension could be accepted. The most important question we have to answer in this debate today is whether these conditions are met. For that, the D66 Group needs answers to a number of questions that concern us in this respect. They concern a number of remaining articles and also the process after adjusting the Wpg. First of all, I would like to ask the Minister whether he thinks that the motion has been complied with. The sixth extension is also on the agenda today. For the sixth extension, we are now assessing this for the first time before the Royal Decree and assessing it against the current covid situation, with the De Boer motion and, of course, with our usual review criteria for legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u4	I would like to comment on what Mr Van der Voort said. Did this Chamber meet today for this debate to assess whether the motion has been complied with, whether the law is still being complied with, whether the conditions laid down in the law are being complied with, and whether it should be renewed at any time or not? In my view, Mr Van der Voort said that the most important question we have to answer today is whether the conditions of a motion have been met.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u5	It is, of course, a question of assessing the present law and whether we agree with it or not. But our group supported that motion and we are looking at whether that motion has been completed, because that may be an argument for voting for or against the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u6	Then I understand that D66 says: for us the most important question today is whether the motion should be complied with. But of course that is not at the heart of the debate today.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u7	If the motion is not complied with, then that is an argument not to vote for the law. If it is fulfilled, it will help to vote for it. But, of course, there are other arguments, and we consider them.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u8	Then we have a reverse view, namely that we shall vote first on the law and then on any motions, to see if they are satisfied. For the SP that is the order we like to maintain.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u9	The Minister can answer many questions, but one question you have to answer as a group, namely whether a motion has been complied with. That's an independent trade-off. My question to Mr Van der Voort is: what does D66 think?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u10	We will indeed make that assessment on our own. We find it interesting to hear the Minister's views on this. That's what I've been asking about. In order to consider the motion, I have a number of questions. I'm going to put that in my speech later. We will then use them to take our decision on it later, also hearing the Minister's answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u11	You can continue your argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u12	The only article of the Royal Decree for the sixth extension reports a continuation of the Twm until 1 September, with the exception of a number of underlying articles. The question that our group is asking is: are the articles in the Twm that remain in the KB, which bring KB in line with the description in the De Boer motion? On three articles by the Twm, which remain in the sixth extension, we still have questions for the Minister. First of all... The grouping of 58g lapses, but a ban on opening public places, Article 58h, does not lapse. Can the Minister explain again why Article 58h cannot be repealed if other measures, such as distance, mouth masks and so on, continue to exist? What is the added value of the ban on opening up if measures to prevent transfer have already been taken on the basis of other articles of law? Does the prohibition of opening up mean an unnecessary restriction of freedoms? The second article that our group is asking for is the quarantine obligation. It continues to exist for persons travelling, Article 58nb. What is the underlying argument for this? In the explanatory statement, the Minister referred to the 144th OMT opinion, but reading that opinion, there was no support from the OMT either. Meanwhile, there is quite some literature on travel restrictions and the course of infections. A Cochrane review by Burns and others shows that there is a lack of reallife evidence and that there is only a limited effect in simulation studies. If we look at previous stops of flights from the regions with new variants, an entry restriction did not keep these variants outside the Netherlands. The variants were found to circulate widely in Dutch society for a long time. However, the cabinet wishes to retain this article. We ask the Minister to explain this. Third. Article 58o, in particular paragraph 4, concerns indications per ministerial arrangement for care locations. The D66 Group wonders whether this is a bit too patronizing. Can the health care institutions not arrange this themselves with the knowledge and experience they have acquired in the meantime? Could this article not therefore be deleted? In addition to the substantive assessment of the various articles, an important point is the temporaryity of the Twm. He's been here before today. How long can be temporary, anyway? I remember the temporary main entrance to the hospital where I was in training. It was opened because of a renovation in 1990 and was still in use at the end of my training, in 1996, as a temporary entrance. But, yes, really, there finally came a new final main entrance. Would it be the same with the Twm? Even though the Twm is now about one and a half years temporarily, that six years from the main entrance is still far from being reached. Why then the impatience in this Chamber, and indeed in the Council of State? In addition to the legal elements that perhaps exist to establish a definitive legal basis, we feel that there is also an obligation to society. Show as government that temporary is also truly temporary. This helps to increase the pressured confidence in politics. It is important to keep a word and therefore to present a final piece of legislation. The previous minister promised this legislation before Christmas 2021. Does the Minister still intend to send adjustments to the Wpg in the summer as a replacement for the Twm to the Lower House? Can this process be accelerated? Can the Minister state as precisely as possible the measures included in the first instalment of the Wpg adjustment? The letter on this matter dated 4 May was still brief. What measures does the Minister intend to take for a subsequent tranche? Finally, our concerns about autumn. In fact, there is a real chance of a new peak in the summer. We will discuss the long-term vision of covid and pandemic preparedness with the Minister before the summer recess, but it is important to report all our concerns now. The Minister's letter on the approach in the autumn talks about keeping society open and caring for everyone who needs care. But what is different about this approach compared to earlier policies? We have always strived for as little restrictive measures as possible and also to maintain care for those who needed them. We would like to hear from the Minister a more detailed explanation of what will be different after the summer after a new upliftment than with previous increases. What measures, then, are needed in an adapted Wpg in order to shape the covid pandemic response as formulated? Mr. Chairman. The pandemic is erratic. Today we are at a crucial point in the design of our package of measures for the coming months and autumn and for any new pandemics. We await the answer from the Minister and will then consider the support for the present clearance law and the KB sixth extension.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u13	Thank you to Mr Van der Voort for his contribution. I notice that some critical questions are being asked to the Minister. I am very curious to see what D66's balance will be if these questions are not answered satisfactorily, but we will see that. My question to Mr Van der Voort is actually the question that I asked Mrs De Bruijn-Wezeman: do you think there is a direct threat at the moment that justifies, legally speaking, the extension of the Temporary Law and, if so, what is the direct threat?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u14	Yes. I have already indicated in the interruptions that the WHO believes that the pandemic is still going on. This must be a very important issue and an important argument for governments in many countries to have their instruments in order. In any case, I think that is an important argument. In her contribution, Mrs De Boer used the term 'legal hygiene' for this purpose. This is actually the balance to be struck: is this legal hygiene now more important than the threat of a new pandemic? We as a group will have to judge that today. But the fact that the WHO believes that the pandemic is still going on and that new variants have recently been introduced is a very important argument for us.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u15	I get that. Maybe just to clarify, I think it's a bit of a false contradiction. I don't think it's for an extension of the Twm that's anything other than that you don't think there should be any work on pandemic resistance. Of course, there are other pandemics that have been identified by the WHO for which we do not have a temporary law. So I think it is a little slim in support of the criterion "direct threat that calls for fundamental rights-limited measures', because that is what we are talking about in a temporary law. Anyway, I understand that the final balance of the D66 group has yet to come. I look forward to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u16	We are very pleased that the Wpg is now getting final parts that can be used to combat pandemics. There has been a threat of a pandemic for a long time. The bird virus and all kinds of other agents are mentioned. So it's about time. It is of course a pity that we only realised during a pandemic that the Wpg was not prepared for that. So I think it's very important. Then the question is: what should you do in the meantime, if things improve now with the pandemic and we do not yet have final legislation? I don't know if I could use the next metaphor. If you're on antibiotic therapy, you're gonna have to finish the course, too. As we have now started our TWM measures, and the definitive measures are not yet in place, there is something to say to finish until it is finally settled.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u17	Mrs. De Boer, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u18	Maybe the chairman can say something about that as a doctor, but in my opinion, this metaphor is a little limp.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u19	As chairman, I don't know anything about it. Mr. Otten.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u20	I have always been told by many doctors: if the antibiotics start to cause side effects, you have to stop immediately. In this case, I should like to give that back to Mr Van der Voort. But Mr Van der Voort says: I had to go through a temporary hospital entrance for six years, and I fear that this new first chamber housing will also last six years, and perhaps longer. But to say that these are fundamental, disproportionate violations of our fundamental rights? Well, as far as this housing is concerned, you might still be able to discuss it, but as far as the temporary entrance is concerned, I don't think so. So we are talking here about very serious violations of fundamental rights with very questionable democratic legitimacy, with subsequent approval and so on. That's what we talked about this morning with the VVD. I do not think that your comparison, as I say to Mr van der Voort through the chairman, with six years going through a temporary entry, is entirely adequate. We are dealing here with very serious infringements of fundamental law. If that antibiotic wears off and has had its effect, please stop, I would say. Otherwise, the cure gets worse than the ailment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u21	Yes. By the way, I don't see the side effects yet. Even though we have the Twm, we have an open society again. But, of course, I fully agree with Mr Otten that we are talking about serious matters here. Indeed, we must take this very seriously. I think we're gonna do the same. At the same time, we are talking about 17.5 million people who are also entitled to good protection from their government. Then it's not easy not to have a Twm like that anymore. So once again, we still have to make that assessment, but these are simply arguments that play a part and that put such a legal balance in a broader context.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u22	Yes, I agree with the considerations made by Mr Van der Voort. They need to be fixed, too. But this has now been the time for almost two years, with a proper and proper adaptation of the Public Health Act. So please let's do it in that frame and let's not prolong this patch endlessly, because if the bandage is too long then you get infections, then it's gonna stink and so on. I want to stop the medical equations. There's plenty of doctors in the room. But do it through the Public Health Act, my advice would be to Mr Van der Voort.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u23	We share the displeasure that it has been going on for a very long time until there is a view of a Wpg that regulates the fight against pandemics well. I share Mr. Otten's view that it would have been preferable to do so more quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u24	I'm gonna hang out with that metaphor about antibiotics for a while. As is well known, especially in doctors, the effectiveness of antibiotics disappears if you use antibiotic courses too often. So that's what you see now when you keep extending this Temporary Measures Act. Effectiveness is no longer there and therefore the necessity is also gone. That's why you shouldn't be extending the law anymore. But Mr Van der Voort now says that the population of 17 million Dutch people must be protected by this law. I wonder: protected from what? Like an antibiotic treatment too often used, this law no longer protects against anything if there is no acute need for it. The second point is: as the main argument, Mr van der Voort of D66 just mentioned that the WHO says that there is still a pandemic. But why does Mr Van der Voort make this decision by the WHO, which as an organization is under great political pressure, including the dictatorship in China, leading this domestic consideration, for this own consideration here in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u25	Our national authorities, for example RIVM, also believe that there is still a pandemic. That may have answered the question about the WTO. The argument that the present Twm would no longer work because it has been extended so many times, I do not quite understand. The measures were, I believe, well scaled down by the cabinet recently as soon as they were no longer needed. Then they are no longer active, but they can be re-used later. But they're not active anymore. But if you once again ban group formation or just call it one of the measures, that will of course be just as effective as before. So I do not understand the argument that these measures would no longer work if they were already in the Twm.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u26	Well, the RIVM is also guided by the WHO and the pandemic is no longer seriously present, certainly not in the Netherlands, compared to a year or two years ago. So that is an important difference in the situation. But what matters is that of none of the measures taken on the basis of this Twm, Mr Van der Voort cites numerous examples, group formation and so on. Can Mr Van der Voort give clear evidence of the effectiveness of the measures contained in that Twm? Measures are now being extended, which in any case have never been proven to be effective.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u27	It is always difficult in science when you speak of "proven." In any case, various measures that have been introduced have reduced the peaks that were emerging in contagion rates. Then you can say 'this is not because of the measures', but that remains a point of discussion. We believe that these measures have been effective. Whether they are scientifically proven by thick and thin, you can, I think, discuss that for a long time. But we think they have been effective, if deployed at the right time.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u28	Finally, Mr. Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u29	Finally, Mr President. What then justifies the continuation of such a far-reaching violation of fundamental rights for measures which are not urgently needed at present and are not proven to be effective? What justifies allowing the government's decision-making power to continue, because that is not proportionate? I like to hear it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u30	Well, it's just a question of whether that's how Mr Van Hattem sketches it. After all, the measures in the sixth extension proposed by the Cabinet have been reduced by largely general measures. This does not restrict very many fundamental rights. In addition, they do not enter until a KB passes through the Lower House and is approved. It is therefore not the case that the measures contained in the Twm are always active and thus hinder any fundamental rights. In fact, I do not see the point that the continued existence of the Twm in the event that measures become necessary would in itself limit fundamental rights.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u31	The essential question asked by Mr Van der Voort is whether there is a direct threat. I was very curious to hear his answer, but in fact Mr Van der Voort did not answer it for me. He just referred to the fact that the WHO is still saying that there is another pandemic going on somewhere in the world. In the explanatory memorandum that led to this law, I have just quoted it as well: "However, the direct threat of the disease can also be reduced by the availability of proper treatment and by increasing resistance in society, for example with a vaccine." Does Mr Van der Voort not agree with me that it merely refers to the fact that the WHO still speaks of a pandemic, is not sufficient justification for his reply?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u32	What I was actually referring to perhaps I will have to be a little more precise.This is: as long as there is a pandemic going on and there is so much virus circulating that there may be new variants that are more sickening than the current omicron variant, I interpret that as a direct threat. So the possibility of creating a new variant, which will pass our country and the world within a few weeks, I experience as a direct threat in the light of a pandemic that is going on.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u33	But I have also referred to Marion Koopmans, who has said on a regular basis that we are going to keep what you see as a threat for decades to come. Is D66 then in favour of constantly calling for a direct threat and that we should simply continue to apply radical measures to fundamental rights?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u34	I think there are a lot of parties to this, because a lot of parties are asking for definitive legislation to combat pandemics in the Wpg. That is precisely what regulates, at least, I assume that it will regulate it, and that appropriate measures can be taken at the time when they are needed, whether or not they are fundamental rights-limiting measures. I don't think it's surprising that we want to.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u35	Finally, Mr Nicolaï.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u36	For someone from D66, where many lawyers in the group are present, I am a little surprised, because it is precisely because this structural legislation is about some sort of sleeping toolbox. What we're talking about right now is an active toolbox. It is therefore up to Mr Van der Voort of D66 to suggest that there is a direct threat and to apply the criteria set out in the explanatory statement.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u37	I'm not sure what "sleeping" is. This can, of course, also occur in all kinds of forms. But you could also say that if the measures are not active, as is currently the case, the Twm is now also dormant legislation that is activated when a ministerial arrangement goes to the Lower House, which is then accepted. Until then, there is a Twm that makes those measures possible, but then they are not there. In my view, this does not mean that fundamental rights are being restricted.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u38	Thank you, Mr. Van der Voort. Then we go to Mr Verkerk on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u39	Mr. Chairman. I would like to begin by thanking the Minister and his officials for the great work they have done in recent months. I am also grateful for the commitment that has been made to achieving permanent legislation. Mr. Chairman. I'm a long-distance runner. Over the past week I have walked a trail in the Hillland of about 20 kilometers with 600 altimeters. That's a great hit on your leg muscles. I also ran some marathons with many altimeters. One of the biggest challenges in walking long distances lies in the area of food and moisture. Every runner wants to prevent him from encountering the man with the hammer. That expression, "the man with the hammer," is symbolic of the fate that can haunt someone. The French cartoonist René Pellos drew the man with the hammer as a mythical figure who knocks out the giants of the road that struck in that case on the cyclists of the Tour de France. The man with the hammer is the fear of every long-distance runner. It has to do with running out of carbohydrates, which means that the body has to go to mainly fat burning, with the result that you feel very bad and you barely get ahead anymore. You have to eat enough to prevent that. You have to eat in time. In practice, that means eating if you're not hungry yet. In addition, you also have to train differently. Mr. Chairman. I tell this story because these two elements, eating if you're not hungry and otherwise training, match the first two recommendations of the WRR/KNAW report Navigate and anticipate in uncertain times. That report outlines five scenarios. The cabinet has taken over four of these scenarios. It's understandable that they dropped one. The four scenarios are the cold scenario, the flu+ scenario, the continuity scenario and the worst case scenario. The first two scenarios do not require any mandatory measures, while the last two must take account of them. This report makes four main recommendations. The first is: anticipate the different scenarios. The second is: bet on a broad social shock resistance. The third is: connect recovery exercises with addressing long-term issues. And the fourth is: protect the values of the rule of law. With regard to the fifth and sixth extensions, the first, second and last main recommendations are particularly important. Mr. Chairman. The first recommendation is: anticipate the different scenarios. The good news is that the current omikron variant makes fewer people seriously ill, despite its high infection. The combination of vaccination and natural immunity has significantly reduced the average number of hospital and ic intakes per day. The number of patients in the hospital and on the ic has decreased to approximately 500 and around 40, respectively. This good news does not detract from the recommendations of the WRR and the Academy to anticipate the different scenarios, especially since experts, virologists, continue to stress that we are not rid of corona and that more sickening forms can easily emerge again. I would also like to emphasise the importance of anticipation from the knowledge we have about the consequences of lung covid. According to a recent estimate of the Nivel.............................................................................................................................................................. This range depends on exactly what definition of "long covid" you use. We are talking about a lot of civilians here. These are citizens, people like you and me, who are struggling with the consequences of lung covid. In some cases, these consequences are simply dramatic. Our group is also thinking of the statement by the Council of State that 'the removal of the Twm without delay is subject to considerable objections'. The Council also notes that the likelihood that the legislator will intervene again too late due to the lack of the legal basis is considerable. The Council considers that risk to be irresponsible given the potential serious consequences. Mr. Chairman. Long distance walkers eat when they're not hungry. Anticipating the different scenarios also means adopting laws that may not be necessary now, in this current situation. Besides, these are measures that we can turn on and off ourselves. Mr. Chairman. The second main recommendation concerns social resilience to shocks. The Christian Union Group welcomes the government's commitment to keeping society open and to the responsibility of citizens and societies. Our group has argued for the latter on several occasions. Our group's question is: what is the government going to do in the coming months to increase this broad social resilience to shocks? Or perhaps I should put it differently: how does the cabinet encourage society to take its own responsibility? The cabinet must, of course, do some of that to her. And what does that mean for the dialogues the cabinet conducts and for its media campaigns? Mr. Chairman. Our group realizes that this is a plea for resilience to shock at a time when citizens enjoy their freedom, that airports cannot cope with the large crowds and that conspiracy theorists are full of the organ. It is also about shock resistance in a context in which the slogan "to keep corona under control" has had its longest time. The social and social costs of the corona crisis are so great that we cannot say with dry eyes that we have kept, control, or will keep corona under control. If our group asks the question as to how this broad social resilience is resistant to shock, it is not only about tough measures in the form of laws, AMvBs and so on, but also about the many soft aspects, especially in social relations. Then it is also about trust and solidarity. It is about trust in politics, in universities and in institutions. It is about solidarity with vulnerable fellow citizens. In this context, I would like to put a particular question to the Minister. We can see that in the CAS and the BES islands, vaccination rates are relatively low. What additional measures will the Minister take there? Mr. Chairman. Long distance runners train at a slow pace. That's very special, because you train at such a pace that you actually think: I'm not getting tired. However, that is important. It's also very difficult to learn that. The adadium is: by slowly training, you go harder. In other words, if you walk slowly while exercising, you end up going faster at a game. This leads to the question of how to develop a broad shock resistance as a society by training slowly so that you can react quickly to the emergence of new variants. I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. That brings me to the fourth main recommendation: protect the values of the rule of law. The Council of State is clear on this point. In order to prevent the Twm from being renewed many more times, the section considers it necessary to provide for a permanent law as soon as possible. I also refer to the Tielen motion in the House of Representatives and the De Boer motion in our Chamber, in which wishes of the same nature were expressed. In his letter of 4 May, the Minister outlined the main lines of a first instalment of the adaptation of the Wpg. In the Minister's view, this law will include the basis for taking measures such as safe distance, opening of public places, events and quarantine of travellers. Can the Minister promise that all measures affecting fundamental rights can only be activated with the consent of both chambers? Can the Minister also promise that democratic control will respect Thorbecke's house? We have the Chamber, the provinces and the municipalities, and democratic control is taking place at those levels. And how does the Minister intend to incorporate in this first tranche the commitment made to our group T03144, on regional COOVID-19 measures in the event of a regional outbreak? Mr. Chairman. I would like to invite you, the Minister and my colleagues, to take a nice trail in the hillland of Limburg, not only to convince you that that is the most beautiful part of the Netherlands, because you are already convinced, I think, but above all to let you experience that you have to eat if you are not hungry and that you have to train slowly to run faster. This debate is ultimately about the flourishing of every citizen and the flourishing of society as a whole. This calls for a state-of-the-art approach with permanent legislation. Our group looks forward to the Minister's answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u40	Thank you, Mr. Verkerk.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u41	My esteemed colleague Verkerk started with a very beautiful picture. In that light, I have the following question. Is it not a particular task of the First Chamber to be at some point the man with the hammer who says to the cabinet: "Cabinet, which was far-reaching powers were needed, but they are now, in the present circumstances, no longer necessary, no longer proportionate. In other words, this Twm can't now"? Do you have an eye for that notion?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u42	I can't think of any state-of-the-art wording in which it appears that the First Chamber represents the man with the hammer. I used this image to focus on two points. I've used it to focus on the fact that you have to take food before you get hungry. You really have to anticipate what's happening. That was my two main points. If you also want to use it as a symbol that the First Chamber sometimes says no, that is indeed the function of the First Chamber. It sometimes happens that a law passed by the Lower House is rejected by this Chamber. That is indeed a function of this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u43	I do understand that right of veto, but my point is more than symbolic. Is it not also an excellent task of the First Chamber to be alert to the fact that powers, far-reaching powers, not above the market, remain over fundamental rights, but that there may be a time to say that this is no longer proportionate and no longer necessary, so stop now? I do not hear much of that in your speech. Isn't your argument essentially based almost entirely on the argument "in case"? And is that thick enough to re-agree the extension of the Twm?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u44	If you say that my speech is based on 'in case', then I have to tell you that there are gentlemen who are much wiser than I am, both at the Council of State and at the WRR and the Academy, who say that you really need to prepare. Secondly, in assessing the future Minister's law, I asked for a guarantee that if our fundamental rights are at stake, Parliament will have decisive control over them. That is precisely what I want to protect these fundamental rights.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u45	Let me first say that I am pleased with Mr Verkerk's question to the Minister to apply the decisive control over Parliament, the Second and First Chambers, to the new legislation from September. I think that's a big profit. We fought that with each other, so I think that's a very nice question. The second question contains a metaphor. You say eat without hunger. In general, that is not often the problem for me, and that is probably the problem. But in your metaphor, you do point to a very one-sided diet, the Twm. My question is: couldn't it be with something else, should it really be the Twm?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u46	I used this metaphor because today is the fifth and sixth extension. The question is: could that be another diet? Yeah, it could be the diet of emergency regulations. The government can take emergency regulations very quickly. The huge disadvantage is that there is no direct democratic control over emergency regulations. That is why it is not our group's preference. I also refer to the authoritative argument put forward by the Council of State, at least it is a very authoritative institution which says that it is irresponsible for him to just tune the Twm. I agree with you... Our group has been asking for final legislation for three-quarters of a year or perhaps a year ago. Our group has also criticized the previous minister for not having adopted this legislation. The current minister says: I'm going to come up with a new law. A few months after his arrival, I think: I am happy about that. I invite him to include a number of points in that law. Then it does not contribute to the debate to blame the Minister for having taken a long time. These are a number of arguments for our group why, in your words, we think this is a good diet.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u47	I didn't blame this minister for taking a long time. I also referred to the period before he took office, and to the commitments made at that time. But I note that Mr Verkerk also says: it could also be done in a different way. However, you choose the Twm because you think it is better democratically and better controlled. But you say that it could also be done in a different way, with the emergency regulations which will be able to combat the crisis situation for a very short time, for which they are intended. After that, final legislation can be introduced very quickly. That is, of course, the question before us. I regret that this is before 1 September, because we would have preferred to have seen it before. I agree with Mr Verkerk. My conclusion is: it can be different, but the Christian Union currently opts for the Twm, just like the VVD. I can justify that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u48	I would like to stress that there is another way to do this. But we also want to talk about 'legal hygiene'. That term doesn't come from me and I'm not a lawyer, so I'm just taking that term very carefully in my mouth. But I do say that I prefer a temporary law that we have properly democratically adopted rather than having to resort to emergency regulations and emergency laws. Because emergency laws aren't always as charming. After all, the time we have to study such a law is always tight. That is the essence of an emergency law. So with a view to "legal hygiene," I prefer a temporary law that lasts a few months longer, reluctantly. However, I prefer it rather than relying on emergency laws or regulations.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u49	I believe that this temporary law was also passed as an emergency law in Parliament at the time. So why does Mr Verkerk of the Christian Union have so much faith in this temporary emergency law, which is still being extended as an emergency law every now and then?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u50	My group has done its best at first to study this emergency law very carefully and to give a sound response to it. And the second is: we have extended this law a number of times. So we all know all the pluses and minuses of this emergency bill. In this respect, again, we have had enough time to prepare for this debate, much more so than in some other emergency laws. So, frankly, I don't quite understand your argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u51	Mr Verkerk himself said that he is not waiting for emergency laws and has no confidence in them. But this law, as I said, is also an emergency law. And the Minister himself indicated that the route is still possible to come up with an emergency law if necessary. I am not waiting for it myself, but if it were necessary, you would theoretically be able to re-introduce the text of this law, which has already been studied by Mr Verkerk and his group. So what stands in the way of putting this law aside now and bringing it back into being if necessary and if it is really necessary?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u52	A very essential piece of my story was about the recommendation of the WRR, which says: anticipate all scenarios and not just on the first and second scenarios. With my contribution, I wanted to say that we must anticipate all scenarios. And I called the term "legal hygiene." To that end, I would prefer a temporary law to be extended rather than emergency laws or regulations.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u53	Finally, Mr. Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u54	Mr Verkerk talks about "all scenarios." The current emergency law, which is now constantly being extended, is just an empty shell at the moment. There's almost nothing left in there. So to what extent are those scenarios actually filled in? Or is this just a meaningless story that is being followed up because it is an extension of the temporary law, when there is no material material in it at all? So to what extent are these scenarios still justified?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u55	Mr. Van Hattem says we're dealing with an empty shell. I do not think that this characterization is appropriate to the factuality of the law and to the measures proposed by the Minister in the future law. This also has to do with the fact that we know that we have to do two things in the fight against viruses. Firstly, within the region, we must prevent people from infecting each other. Secondly, we must try to prevent contamination from one region to another. Those are the two main laws. These two main laws are reflected in the somewhat more limited future law that the Minister sketches and also in the current Twm. That's why I think: better that than nothing. Would we have more wishes? Yeah, maybe, but that's not how I prepared for this debate. Because the debate is about these laws and about the Minister's letters.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u56	Thank you. Mrs Nanninga has the floor on behalf of the Nanninga Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u57	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is a nice invitation, for such a long run in the Limburg hills. If I did, I wouldn't need a covid to get on the ventilator, I guess. But it was a beautiful view; I must say that. Mr President, here we are again. It's a little groundhog day, this debate. We are again discussing the fifth extension of the so-called Temporary Law measures covid-19 and also the heavy veil of the sixth. In the debate on the fourth extension, my group expressed concern that we had nothing to do with temporary measures. I'm afraid that's true. The unfortunate thing is that we have really asked questions, or actually the question, to the Minister of Health. Same office, different person, I say, towards the minister present. So it was the minister's predecessor. That question was: explain the factors that determine this policy and the need for all these measures. What's being sent to? The number of infections? The number of hospitalizations? The number of Ice Beds? The distance from code black? The ic capacity? The vaccination rate? What is the relationship between these indicators? Is it a combination of indicators? Are they consistently applied, or is it dependent on the mood of the minister and OMT? We never got that question answered. I think that several groups here have received a very friendly app from the minister's staff: gosh, are there any questions in the debate tomorrow? Well, this one. But I have fresh courage and think that this question will now be adequately answered by this Minister, because it has never been sufficiently clarified. The result is that we are stuck indefinitely with what was once meant temporarily, without clarity about what all those choices are based on. So the temporary nature of this law is already questionable. In the near future, we can even rejoice in a legislative amendment that permanently anchors 12 measures that are currently in a so-called and now notorious toolbox. This brings me to the issue of violations of fundamental rights. Everyone in this house knows, I think, that those violations have been really large-scale and far-reaching. In an acute crisis response, it can really be justified. My group, and with our party's extension, is not against measures, but only when all the options are exhausted. That is really not the case anymore. I am really looking forward to the answer to the questions that the Minister has still not answered. It will not, I think, lead to a positive vote in favour of my group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u58	Are you at the end of your speech, Mrs. Nanninga?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u59	I beg your pardon?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u60	Is that what you're doing at the end of your input?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u61	Yeah, that was the point. That was my contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u62	Thank you. Mr Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u63	That question about these indicators also stems from my earlier vote. We've also asked for it in the face, and again today. I am a little surprised that Mrs Nanninga just reported that she received an app for the debate from the minister's representative and that apparently all the groups here would get it. At least that was the assumption. I didn't get a friendly app from an employee of the minister, not even an unfriendly app. I haven't had an app at all, so my question is: could Mrs Nanninga indicate if there was lobbying from the Ministry at JA21 to vote for this law after all? How am I supposed to see such an app contact with the Ministry?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u64	Well, I don't want to put the secretary's employees in a nasty position with this. The assumption that this may have been requested from more groups is entirely mine. That's a real assumption. It was a very neutral question: well, do your group still have pressing questions? Period. That was the whole story. It wasn't that exciting, but it triggered me for a moment, because there is a cow of a question, which indeed your group has asked very often, which we never got an answer to. It would be nice if this minister could do that. But there's no lobby or anything behind it. I do not want to involve the operation of an official or an employee in this debate either. I don't think that's a good idea either.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u65	No, I don't mean to. I am concerned that certain political groups are apparently sending messages from the Ministry to get answers, questions that concern me myself. Again, I would prefer to discuss these questions directly and square public in the debate. As far as I am concerned, there is no need for apples, but I find it remarkable that certain groups and certain groups are not approached. Perhaps some groups might have a decisive vote in this debate. I would just like to say that this is a remarkable development. Perhaps the Minister will be able to comment on this later.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u66	That seems to me to be the Minister. Second. I think I can rest assured that I will not be changed by a message. I have opened this up and put it directly into this debate. Here, perhaps, something very mysterious is being suggested that there isn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u67	As a result of Mr Van Hattem's interruption, I do object a little. He suggests that all kinds of groups may or may not have had apps, but he doesn't know that himself. That is what he has derived from what Mrs Nanninga has just said. That's one. Secondly, I think it is very good that there are spicy questions and that you should mention them in advance. That does not mean that you assume that you will get the answers outside the debate, but then the Minister can prepare himself well. This only improves the quality of the debate. The suggestion that there are all lines and things, I regret.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u68	That wasn't really a question to me, I think. But I do agree with Mr Nicolaï. I'm not used to it any other way. Sometimes they ask if there are any questions for the alderman, but again, there is really nothing shady about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u69	I have another question for Mrs Nanninga. In fact, Mrs Nanninga points out that in the covid time she has had difficulty in getting the goals that the government wants to achieve with its policy, despite the fact that it has been in several notes. I understand that a little bit. But the important question is: if you do not, we will talk about how we deal with the crisis. The mentioned report of the WRR and KNAW states very clearly that we must anticipate the future. What I would expect from you is that you would say: well, Minister, it was not clear in the past, but from our political point of view you should focus on that and on that, and if you are going to act like that, then we will go along with the law. My question is: can you say a little more about how you think we should deal with this type of crisis in the future, given, for example, the WRR and KNAW reports?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u70	No, yeah, but we're getting things mixed up right now. The objectives were, of course, perfectly clear, namely to control that pandemic and to get as many people as possible healthy through it with as little harmful side effects as possible. The targets were never our question. The criteria were always our question, and they have never been clarified.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u71	Well, tell me the criteria have been clarified. I think I'll come with you. I wonder as a scientist, they are very complex situations, especially when it comes to people's behavior. But let's say you're right. What would be the criteria for you to look to the future and ensure that we anticipate the follow-up?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u72	Yeah, but I still don't understand the question. I need to know what the criteria are first, don't I? Maybe you're gonna say "I'm gonna say "I'm gonna say "I'm gonna say "I'm gonna say "I'm gonna say "I'm gonna say "I'm gonna say "I'm gonna say "I'm gonna say "I'm gonna say "I'm gonna say "I'm gonna say "I'm gonna say "I'm gonna say "I'm gonna say "I'm gonna say "I'm gonna say "I'm gonna say "I'm gonna say "I'm gonna say "I'm gonna say " I'm just saying. You are now asking me to put together a whole set of criteria: in the case of so many hospitalisations, my group thinks that the schools should be closed again or something. That's not a question I can reasonably answer, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u73	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u74	The question I think is reasonable is: how does your group view the future of the coronapandemic? I have not heard anything about this in your story, and I regret that, because that would contribute to the debate in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u75	Well, it doesn't, because we're talking about a set of measures that ends the day after tomorrow, I think, or what is it? 1 June. So we're looking back anyway. That is what this debate is about. As for the future of the pandemic, it is a vicious animal. But we're not against measures when people end up in hospitals again, when the ICUs get in trouble again, when people die. I don't have a glass ball any more than Mr Verkerk. Maybe there will be another variant that works very well in enclosed spaces. Then you have to do something different than a variant that goes very well in hot weather. I'm just saying. I cannot serve Mr Verkerk. In the broadest sense, we are absolutely not opposed to measures, but we want measures according to clear standards and criteria. There is an uncertain factor, namely the virus itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u76	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u77	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u78	Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the first term? That is not the case. Then I shall suspend the sitting until 3:15 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u79	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the legislative proposal and the draft decision. We now need the government's first-term response. I give the floor to the Minister of Health, Welfare and Sport.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u80	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We are talking today about a legislative proposal to approve the fifth extension of the Temporary Act measures. We are therefore discussing the sixth extension to your Chamber. I am referring here to the announced first tranche of an amendment to the Wpg, as has already been discussed. Before I do that, I would like to take a moment to consider the current epidemiological situation. The cabinet, as you know, we have also discussed it here before, since the beginning of this year, since 14 January, has made the measures more flexible in four steps. As I said earlier, we have deliberately taken a calculated risk. We anticipated that the number of positive tests, the number of infections, could increase considerably, but the expectation was that the number of people who would become so ill that they needed help in doing so would be kept within control and manageable. That has indeed happened. I said earlier at a press conference, at the time of one of those relaxations, that I took into account that the number of infections would increase to 80,000 a day. You know, in Hindsight, there's been a peak of over 100,000 a day. From the moment we could test widely, somewhere in the summer of 2020, after the first wave, until December 2021, 3.1 million infections in the Netherlands have been documented by the GGD in a period of one and a half years. 3.1 million in a year and a half on a population of 17.5 million people. From the moment we relaxed, mid-January, in three months, January, February, March, 4.7 million infections have been documented by the GGD. So there were 3.1 million in one and a half years and after the relaxations, the release of the measures while there was a highly contagious variant around value, there were 4.7 million. I'm sure that's an understatement. We share that. Not everyone with a positive self-test went to the GGD for confirmation. So we miss those people. Not everyone with complaints was tested or tested themselves. So there's an understatement there too. So let's assume with caution that there have been 6 million infections in three months. In other words: one in three Dutch people has had it in three months, despite previous vaccinations and despite previous infections and thus despite a pre-January high build-up of immune status in terms of at least antibodies, as we know from Sanquin data. That's the statue. After more than two years of experience with this virus and this pandemic, we now know that we have previously been vaccinated or have previously experienced an infection unfortunately does not protect against renewed infection. We have seen situations, which are also described abroad, of people who become infected twice, three times, and sometimes even four times in a year. I'm sure you've seen a few things in your area, too. We also know that, unfortunately, in the long term, this is going to happen fairly quickly with the current changes of variants, a previous infection, but also a previous vaccination, but also limited protection against renewed infection and in time provides a decreasing protection against serious illness and therefore hospital and possible ic intake. That's the situation. In addition, we have seen this for two years. Last week, the ECDC identified the new omikron variants BA.4 and BA.5 as worrying variants, "variants or group" as they are called. ECDC refers to a growth advantage of 13% in relation to the BA.2 omikron variant. What does 13% mean? With a very fast replicating virus 13% is really relevant. BA.4 and BA.5 are more like BA.2 than BA.1. This can be an advantage for us, in which there is a high group immunity for BA.2 on the basis of the infections we had in the first quarter of this year alone. The new variants, these worrying variants according to the ECDC, are already shown in the Netherlands in the germ surveillance. Those have been a few sporadic cases so far, but in the meantime we see it more widely. That's an impression. If you compare that with the situation abroad, you see different situations at different times. The situation in most European countries is consistent with the Netherlands. There is a real increase in America at the moment. In the last two weeks, the number of infections has increased by 57%. I'm referring to a publication in The New York Times today. This means that, in some areas, there is already a firm opinion, rather than an obligation to use masks in public spaces. Today in the paper in the United States. Are the United States quite different from the Netherlands? No, the same variant, BA.2, has so far been dominant, the same virus, always changes in vaccination status and so on. So it's a erratic virus. In doing so, I will, if I may, make a bridge to the remarks made earlier by your Chamber regarding threats and direct threats. I don't want to fall into semantics. I don't want to be gloomy, but I feel myself occasionally, especially when I speak to the press every time with the remark "the virus is not gone"... I can't look into a glass ball, but we see the changes and we see what is happening again in the United States: a 57% increase in fourteen days. We have also seen this on a regular basis in the Netherlands. There is no reason to believe that such things cannot happen in the Netherlands. When? Tomorrow? Now the number is low. Is the signal that over the past 24 hours, more patients have suddenly been hospitalized than in the previous period? No, it's way too early and way too direct. Today and tomorrow, things can be different. But does it mean something that you really have to monitor from day to day and from week to week, and therefore also from month to month, even in a mere three-month period of temporary law measures, and what you need to intervene on if necessary? Yes, it does, as we have in the past. It also means something about the preparations. Several Members of Parliament have asked what is actually going on. Can the Minister, for example, indicate very specifically where the GD is located? Without being extensive, but still passing by: the GGDs have now arranged it in such a way that they have a basic capacity for testing for those who want it and for specific groups, and that they have a basic capacity for putting 300,000 vaccinations per week. They have a fixed pool for that and fixed locations. They have reduced it so much with spare staff that, if we now say "start," they will be able to scale up fully to either maximum test capacity or 1.5 million vaccinations per week within six weeks. We don't have to wait six weeks before it starts with 1.5 million vaccinations. No, that's six weeks of scaling up from 300,000 to 1.5 million. So that means that in those six weeks you've already had a whole category, certainly of the most vulnerable. Chapeau for the GGDs for the way they do it, because that is extremely complex. That's what they've done now. The same applies to RIVM. RIVM has now reduced it so that it works with certain control populations, as is also done for influenza, but also through a connection with all wastewater treatment systems throughout the Netherlands has a national coverage. This does not determine the exact number of infections.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... That's where the information comes from about those BA.4 and BA.5 variants. That's the RIVM. The laboratories are already ready for testing and any other analyses. We have vaccines available. When it comes to the portfolio of care, there are big challenges there and there is an incredible amount of hard work. Some regions and some health care institutions are already very far away. Others are really struggling with issues. I will mention a few aspects, which I have been working on in previous long letters. One aspect is to have real-time insight, 24/7, into the care capacity, so hospital beds, primary care in nursing homes and so on. Ten of the eleven ROAZ regions have long been connected to the National Platform on Healthcare Capacity, which provides this kind of insight. My urgent question to the latter region is also: make sure that you join now; the regions have already shown you their added value and have also shown that it is not very difficult to connect, so start with that. My urgent appeal to all regions: make sure that you have not only hospital capacity, but also all the other things. At the moment you have that, you can also focus within your ROAZ on where the weakest link is, at the moment and also expected when more care is needed. That could be covid care, but it could be something else. The next step is to set up regional care coordination to ensure that, if there is a demand, the patient comes to the right place as soon as possible. That sounds like a no-brainer.We'd all set it up like this.But over the past two years, we've seen a healthcare system get clogged because it's stuck somewhere, and patients go somewhere else. The permanent place, some kind of last resort, is then standard hospital emergency care. And then the whole system gets jammed. So this also applies: care by region for care coordination. Finally, ensure sufficient capacity. In this context, it is very important to set up capacity for remote care. That can be for covid patients, but also for other patients. I would like to mention one example of a hospital in the middle of the country. That hospital has secured a capacity for monitoring 4,000 patients remotely. This concerns covid patients, but also patients with chronic pulmonary disease, chronic heart failure and so on. This means that hospital with a much smaller number of staff, and also with better comfort for many patients, knows to monitor people at home, with oxygen etc. if necessary. Some hospitals do. That is quite a lot of regions, but not every region has that yet. They also do not have every combination of hospitals, community care, general practitioners and so on. So that too is a question for the remaining regions. I'll get a full analysis of that very soon. That's on the care side. In addition, we deliberately say the following. That's also in the letter I sent you earlier. If we want to control the handling of a highly contagious virus, which causes some people to become seriously ill for a long time and some people to become seriously ill, and that is not one-on-one people......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Otherwise, it could lead to a very high absenteeism. I am not sure, but if we have had 6 million infections in a three-month period, it is not unwise to take into account that covid can indeed return in the early late summer. I don't have a glass ball, it can be done sooner, but if we take into account a seasonal effect, then there may be some dampening in the summer. We have seen the last two years that it starts in September. If that were to happen again and it does indeed last from September to the second half of April for seven months, and we have not taken any measures, then it should not be strange to take into account 6 million infections in three months, but 10 million infections in seven months. First of all, that affects society. We have seen these effects before: failure of trains, flight failure, failure of education and so on. When the schools started again, education in many places could not continue because the teachers were sick at home. I'm just gonna use that example. We have asked all these different sectors 'we', together with my colleagues from OCW, Social Affairs, Economic Affairs and so on, to make plans by sector. One set of plans has already been worked out. That's the one from education. I think they've made really good plans, looking at infections and testing if necessary, and ventilating and getting distance back in order. If necessary, you can move on holidays. There is possibly hybrid education and so on. That is also what we are asking of the other sectors. Those plans are now under way and I hope to be able to send them to your Chamber shortly. That is the situation with regard to the direct threat and the long-term approach. Finally. Then I come to the answers to the questions, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u81	I'm sure I have some kind of interruption after all. The Minister is already starting with a kind of doom scenario, with a high number of infections and all the consequences. But we have seen in the omikron variant that although there were many infections, the effects of these infections were relatively mild and limited. What does the Minister base his future policy on? On what basis does he base the fact that there will again be serious consequences of these infections? There may be many infections, but if there are relatively few people in hospitals and care is not overloaded, what justifies such far-reaching, fundamental rights-limiting measures?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u82	Yes. I understand that Mr Van Hattem is talking about a doomsday scenario, but I would like to stick to preparation for the sausage and hope for the best. Or in English: prepare for the worst and hope for the best. That might sound bleak. I have just said that I sometimes feel like a gloomy person in these matters. But at the same time you can expect me to outline scenarios that are very real. I hope we all stay away from that. I'm referring to the illness. Yeah, that Omikron variant is less sickening overalls than an earlier variant like the delta variant. It's more like an infection of the upper airways and so on. But in the past period, the most important factor was the up-to-dateness of a complete vaccination or protection status. This concerns the number of people who have recently been infected or who have recently had a repeat injection. Especially in the category 60-plus, this figure was very high in the first quarter of this year. This gave us the opportunity to see high numbers of infections, while the number of people who got so sick that they needed help was much lower. We see in the time when the protection against hospitalisation has so far been decreasing gradually, but in the short term. This means that if you are in a situation again with very high numbers of infections and no up-to-date immune status, even in the omicron variant could lead to different situations. Is the Minister sure? No, the minister isn't sure. But it could be.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u83	It is indeed uncertain, but we are now taking very firm action on the basis of such uncertain forecasts and assumptions. Everything is now also being thrown into a pile, such as a high disease failure, a high absenteeism. This may be a problem in itself, but it will include measures other than those we are talking about today, which intervene in the privacy and fundamental rights of citizens and which can be taken by means of this Temporary Law. I therefore believe that the Minister is actually pre-empting things by saying here: there can be so many infections and vaccination status is falling. On the other hand, the current vaccines are also less effective with regard to the omikron variant. The vaccination status therefore does not mean very much in this context. In short, why, after all, insist on the need for the extension of these measures, which are not one-on-one the most effective means, or are no effective means at all, for the situations outlined by the Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u84	I note that in the debate, Mr Van Hattem does so on a regular basis, also by having a framework under which you can take action, and whether or not to take those measures yourself. At the moment, as your Chamber has referred to this a number of times, there are no more measures, apart from an obligation to speak in aviation, but it is almost due to expire. There is nothing but the strong advice to people with a positive test to go into isolation. Even the isolation period we have made as short as possible on the basis of the latest data on the omikron variant. For the rest, there are no measures. I think that'll help the general public, too. Everyone acknowledges that: there are no measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u85	Mr Van Hattem, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u86	I find it rather easy for the Minister to say that there are no measures, because there is a basis for those measures. At the moment, these measures may not apply, but as long as that temporary law is in force, the Minister can immediately announce such measures again, if there is a graph going up somewhere or there is a certain signal that panics out at once. That's the problem with this temporary law. It is kept in the air for situations that may not be at all at all and probably will not be discussed anymore. So why does the Minister want to stick to that basis of competence, when the measures themselves are not in force? Why does he want to keep that base in the air? And if he wants to do anything, just bet on the capacity of the care! Take a firmer approach to this, because at least we will have something to do with it, rather than defending this unnecessary law with fire and sword if necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u87	Mr President, if I may, I would like to come back to the last point, because it comes back very often. In this debate, too, Mr Van Hattem mentioned it earlier: focusing on the capacity of care and thus preventing a measure. You can't tie those two together, let me be very clear about that. It really is an illusion, I say quite definitely, that care capacity in the Netherlands or in any other country can be increased to such a level that you no longer have to take measures at any time in the event of a pandemic such as with corona. That's a real illusion. I know the suggestion keeps coming up, like some kind of stubborn thought. But that kite is not going to fly. A good comparison is with Germany. There the hospital capacity including ic-capacity is five times higher than in the Netherlands. But if you look at time, you will see that at all times Germany had to take exactly the same measures as we did and that even at the beginning of this year they were more able to relax than we were, for their magical reasons, despite the very great capacity.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u88	Yeah, and that's probably why all those patients went to Germany in the first wave, but that aside. In fact, what the Minister is saying is, you have a broken leg and you have to spend three months in plaster. But in order not to take any chances, for the fifth time you're gonna spend another three months with your leg in plaster. 'Cause you never know, you could fall again. Of course, that's putting the horse behind the cart. Anyway, if the minister and his support staff follow the Internet a little bit, they'll see that all the major media now say that the First Chamber is going to reject this bill. Apparently that's already priced. Then we probably won't have to spend too much time on the use of the emergency law. But what's the Minister gonna do if we in the First Chamber vote out this law tonight? When do you expect to be able to deliver the amendment to the Public Health Act to Parliament? Well, that's my question. Governing is forward-looking. So let's look ahead and not do a ritual dance around a law that is voted down by the entire Dutch media tonight. That's our assessment, too. So let us look ahead in particular, my question to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u89	It's not my habit to put on every hook... But I do want to keep the numbers pure when it comes to the numbers of patients who went to Germany. We have been extremely grateful to the German colleagues, but to see it in proportion: at the time when in the first wave, covid and non-covid there were 1,700 patients in the Netherlands on the ic, there were about 30 Dutch patients in Germany. 30 in Germany and 1,700 in the Netherlands. Later, in the second wave, when we again looked at similar numbers of................................................................................................................................................................................................ This does not take away the great thanks to the German colleagues, but let us not give the public the impression that because Germany had more capacity, they have been able to accommodate many hundreds or thousands of Dutch patients. It wasn't. That doesn't change the thanks, but it really wasn't. For each individual patient, we had to talk to the care director, the region and the Minister for Health of North Rhine-Westphalia. We have been asked: what is the Minister going to do? The moment you vote out the law, it's very clear. Then today, apart from the preparations for the adaptation of the Wpg that we are doing and which I am coming back to, the Minister is not going to do anything, because the Minister does not need any action now. The cabinet doesn't need any action now either. But the moment that it has to be, for whatever reason, we have just talked about it.There's nothing more to it than to take back on the same approach we had in the first wave. These are emergency measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u90	But I've always learned that you have to fix the roof when the sun shines, so I'd say: why don't you just sail with the Wpg? If, on top of that, urgent legislation is still needed, should it go wrong again, which we all hope will not, then we can, as we have shown in the First Chamber in the last two years, sometimes deal with and vote on it in the very short term. I would ask the Minister not to let it hit the Wpg, but simply, as I said, to fix the roof when the sun shines. Now we don't have a problem with it. Let's hope it doesn't come back, but when it comes back, at least we're done. That was also our point in the first term. Streamline the organization so that people can switch quickly, because I think a lot went wrong there too. If we look back now, we can see that all this has been very viscous and difficult.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u91	I take this advice very much to heart. If you'll allow me, I'll get back to you in a minute. I shall now come to the answers to the questions. I do that in four categories. I start with the extension of the Twm, today's subject, then with the structural change of the Wpg and then I come in the long term, because of the questions asked. I know that there will be a debate on this shortly, but the necessary questions have been asked, so I would like to answer them today. After that, I have a cup left. So I'll start with the extension of the Twm. Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to answer Mrs De Boer and Mrs Prins' question as to whether I can reflect on the need for action and therefore the need for the law. There will be a change to the Wpg for collective measures to tackle an A disease, including COVID-19. How does the government view the impact of the violation of fundamental rights? I have just mentioned that it is important to distinguish between the law and the measures. That was also recognised by your Chamber. Measures will only be taken if they are necessary and proportionate. Measures to tackle fundamental rights. The assessment of fundamental rights is therefore always carried out when taking measures. As you have seen, in the adjustments at the time... the fifth extension came one day after I was here talking to your Chamber about the fourth. For the sixth, we did, also on the advice and following a motion from your Chamber, from Mrs De Boer, very much change the foundations, while maintaining that, if necessary, we can take measures relating to distance, masks, hygiene, ventilation, opening of locations and entry rules. A legal basis for measures that may be necessary is then necessary. At the moment, I only have a Twm.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u92	I still have a question for the Minister. With regard to the question I asked, I was particularly concerned that it was so striking that by constant pressure from the Second and First Chambers and by the signals from the Council of State, the government seems to have made a final commitment to a bridging law or an initial supplement. The question was: how does the cabinet look at that now? What is the government's view of the violation of fundamental rights, given that Parliament and the Council of State have always had to encourage the Minister, does it seem to be taking these steps? That was the essence of my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u93	Clear. Thank you for this additional explanation. The cabinet looks at it as follows; this also just passed by. In a situation like this, as we have had over the last two years, you can see that different fundamental rights of our citizens are at risk. For example, we are talking about fundamental rights such as being able to move freely, but also about a lot of other things. It is also a question of the state's commitment to the protection of public health. This includes, for example, access to care when people need care, whether because of covid or something else.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u94	I may not have made myself clear. I am not concerned with the content of the law, because I think we are quite right about that, which is, unfortunately, sometimes necessary. I am more concerned with the timeliness and speed of a more definitive and structural adjustment of legislation and regulation. So I am really talking about the legal bases and not about the use of the measures. In fact, I think that is two different things.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u95	Let's add a little extra. That temporality doesn't say anything about the duration of the temporality. The law explicitly contains an extension system that allows the temporaryity to last longer than initially foreseen. Now, on good grounds, there has been a discussion in the first instance to allow that temporary law to last for 12 months from the point of view, even with experiences from the distant past, that a pandemic always has a longer term course and it takes a while before it really settles and before you have all kinds of other measures, such as vaccines. The Council of State then gave the opinion that these six months should last. It was then decided in the discussion with the Chambers that it should be a three-month period. But the moment you do, you almost know that there's a good chance that you're going to have to extend it a couple of times by three months, of which you're aware. The Council of State is now saying that the time has come for such an extension to come to an end. The Council therefore strongly urged that the Wpg be adapted. The previous commitment I shall come back to so separately has always been to strive for a complete review of the Wpg with all that is needed in the field of pandemic preparedness, not just in the field of covid, but in the field of pandemic preparedness. That's gonna take a lot. This also requires a good discussion with the Dutch municipalities and with the GGD GHOR about the direction of the GGDs during a crisis and during a national pandemic. The same should be done with care parties but also with Dutch municipalities, security regions etc., about the direction of ROAZ regions and the mandate of a ROAZ board and a ROAZ chairman. This requires a good evaluation, an OVV report, a Verweij-Jonker report and an evaluation of the Security Regions Act. The commitment of my predecessor has always been to tackle all this together and then to steer a complete revision of the Wpg. I have your strong advice to do that differently and to steer a change of the Wpg in my mind as soon as possible. I haven't had all these evaluations yet and I haven't had time to steer things like the GGD, ROAZ et cetera. It is a different approach to say, partly on the advice of the Council of State, "We are doing things differently. We send for an adjustment of a Wpg in different tranches."
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u96	Finally, Mrs. Prins.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u97	For the time being, I would like to thank the Minister for his explanation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u98	Follow up on this. The Minister has just made a plea for inclusion in a permanent law for about twenty minutes rather than in temporary laws, given the situation. You could have done that a long time ago. The idea that first Corona should be behind us, that we should have asked everyone for advice, that everything should be discussed with each other and that we should then adapt the whole Wpg, does not, of course, in any way do justice to the fact that what has been said here and in the House of Representatives very often, already at a very early stage, namely that this Twm cannot be extended and extended. If it had not been insisted, we would have been able to extend this Twm, with the system that the minister now mentions and what his predecessor suggested, for two, three or four years before we had come to anything. Why has it not been recognized from the cabinet and its predecessors that this temporaryity had to be temporary? Those signals were there, and they're now reinforced. Why wasn't there an earlier act from the cabinet that this temporaryity had to be temporary and that the whole initial plan was impossible because we couldn't wait for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u99	I would very much like to answer the question. I'd really like to remember it, too. But I had made a proposal, also in view of the topic that is primarily on the agenda today, to talk first about the Twm and then about the Wpg. If we turn that around with different questions, I'd be happy to. But then I'm going to reverse the order of my answer and we're going to talk about the Wpg first and then the Twm. Otherwise, I'll remember the question. My proposal would be to talk first about the Twm and then about the adaptation of the Wpg and its pace, and then I remember the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u100	That is always nice, but my question is about the Twm, namely the extension. The minister just outlined in about 20 minutes why he couldn't do without that Twm. We wouldn't have had to have this debate if we had gotten into a different situation earlier where we could have just lifted the Twm and we could have followed a different path. But we'll get back to that later.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u101	Yes. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to questions from, among others, Mr Nicolaï, Mr Recourt and Mrs Baay: should we keep the toolbox with different scenarios because we do not know what the future will be, when the agreement is that the powers should only be there if there is an epidemic or a direct threat? I did say something about this just now in my introduction. The virus isn't gone, and it's not going anywhere. It has always been very volatile in the past. The current situation in the Netherlands is that the number of infections and the number of people who need help are relatively low, much lower than in recent months. It's not like that everywhere. Even with the same variant, that can change very quickly in time. That means that it is wise to really prepare for different scenarios, including fighting with the virus over and over again and a serious scenario where you return to situations like we've had in previous waves with very high numbers of people who are more seriously ill, fall out and need help. In this respect, it is important, in my opinion and in the opinion of the Cabinet, to have a legal basis available immediately in order to be able to intervene. Mr Raven asked: what if the Twm is not extended? It's been mentioned for a while. If the Twm is not renewed, we will fall back on the Wpg as it was before its entry into force and the President of the security region will have the opportunity to take individual measures. In this situation, moreover, the Wpg allows me to give an indication to the President of the security region, including the drafting of an emergency regulation. This is something I consider undesirable, given the importance of fundamental rights and democratic legitimacy. Mr Van Hattem asked: is there not improper use of the A status, how long will that last? In order to identify an infectious disease as an A disease, it is important, among other things, whether it is necessary to conduct a national direction. We have absolutely needed this in the last two years. At the moment we are in a transition phase in which I, as I indicated, do not know what to expect for the coming period, the summer, and certainly do not know what to expect for the autumn and whether it is necessary to run the country again. Mr Van Hattem and Mrs De Bruijn asked: on the basis of which factors the effectiveness of the measures is determined; please understand more about the extent to which the measures work against the risk of serious illness and death by corona. In addition to the effect of measures, there are several variables that determine how fast a virus spreads. You can then think of, of course, the behaviour of people, the infectiousness of a variant, the seasonal effect and the degree of immunity: how well is the population protected by vaccination or previous infection against infection and also from becoming more seriously ill? It is therefore not possible to determine the precise effectiveness of individual measures, but they have been described in composition in many countries and in many situations over the past two years. These include both measures in the area of distance creation and measures aimed at detecting and keeping people in isolation, and protective measures. It is very difficult for each situation to say exactly what the effect of a given measure is. But overall you can say that these measures have been effective, in all kinds of sets, in all kinds of countries and at different rates, also in the Netherlands. And that effectiveness also applies to the different variants.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u102	I'm gonna come up with that overall effect. I found the way in which the Minister's introductory remarks dealt with the functioning of the vaccines striking, honest and frank. That effect is there, but it is limited, perhaps more limited than we had hoped. The effect is also limited in time. The Minister stressed that, on the other hand, the capacity to vaccinate and prick is very well in order. Now the minister's touching it again. How heavily does the Minister now depend on vaccination, given what we know about it now? Can he reflect on that again?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u103	If there is one thing in this debate that you can remember from me, it is: the best we have is the vaccines, with all the comments that can be made. It is really fantastic that a range of vaccines has been developed in such a short time. The vaccines are only limited in effectiveness in preventing renewed infections, but they have proven to be extremely effective against serious illness and hospitalisation, and they have proven to be even more effective in preventing admission to intensive care. That has saved us in the past period. Despite a peak of more than 100,000 infections per day, the number of people who became so ill that they needed help remained limited compared to previous periods. So remember one thing: the very best thing you can do is get you vaccinated and repeat it when indicated. There is nothing above that: no mouth cover, no washing hands, no keeping away, nothing! I can't say it any clearer than that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u104	Clear. I listened to a little more relativism in your introductory words, but that doesn't matter. This debate also referred to the international situation and to the WTO. This also means that these domestic risks can be quite different from global risks, because we have an enormous vaccination rate in the Netherlands. Isn't that what the Secretary of State recognizes?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u105	Certainly; we have a high vaccination rate in the Netherlands. But let me take you with me. Unfortunately, that's with the current vaccines... We've been given vaccines within a year, based on the original variant. At first we thought: If we only have a vaccine, then we will pop this pandemic out of the world. In the meantime, we know that, unfortunately, it is not. We know that, over time, the level of protection of these vaccines is also decreasing. This has already happened over the course of months, rather than over the years or decades, as is sometimes the case with other vaccines. Does that mean you have to bet for now on the possible re-offering of a new round with these vaccines? Yes. As I said in preparation, the Health Council has given an opinion on this. The RIVM is also equipped on it, et cetera. At the same time, we are working hard to develop vaccines for the latest variants. And there is also real thought about whether you can also make vaccines that cover all variants at once, and which also have a much longer and stronger protective effect, not only against serious disease, but also against infection. We're there now? No. I spoke to a vaccine developer yesterday, and then this came up. I said, "What time do you hope for?" He said years. You don't know what to do in that interim period, but at the same time I found it encouraging, because I noticed: okay, there's a lot of work going on. And this expert didn't say, "We'll never get there."
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u106	Finally, Mr. Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u107	Finally. That's a clear answer. In that sense, it is an honest answer that it may take years before we have such a miracle vaccine. In the meantime, the question remains how hard you can lean on vaccinations. You can't keep poking people. You can't call them every two or three months for a shot.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u108	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u109	Would you care to take some rest in the room? Would you like to hold the debates in plenary via the microphone? Because the people at home can't hear what you're all talking to each other in the room...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u110	Mr President, I can...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u111	No, Minister, I was just talking. I would like to ask Members to hold the debate through the interrupting microphone and not screaming through the Chamber. I'd also like some rest in the room. Because I have noticed here that it bothers the speakers. I would like to conduct the discussion in order at the microphone and not outside, unless we decide otherwise. I call Mrs De Bruijn.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u112	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm sorry for the comment you just made. I understood that Mr Van Dijk had problems with often pricking. I indicated: there are people with diabetes who have to prick several times a day...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u113	Yes, but you will now have the floor to interrupt the Minister. If you want to interrupt Mr. Van Dijk, you should do so during his speech. It's over, but you can of course respond to Mr. Van Dijk in your own second term. We can't do that during an interruption to the Minister. You can interrupt the government now, or you won't get the floor. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u114	I have an interruption for the Minister on the question of the effectiveness of the measures. I understand your explanation. I am particularly concerned, however, about the fact that there is also transparency to society about this. We had just had the discussion about the vaccination, its importance and the developments surrounding the vaccines. We may have to tell society that we may indeed have to go for a shot three or four times a year if we are to arrange that protection for ourselves. It is therefore a question of the effectiveness of this measure. After all, we see that measures will eventually become less effective if they are accepted. We have often said about countries around us, for example, look at Germany and say that the imitation of measures there is much stronger than here in the Netherlands. For example, we say that a mouth cap or visitor restrictions are necessary, because they help us to prevent a complete lockdown, for example. The moment we don't take people into it enough, that imitation is also bad. At the same time, we must look not only at imitation, but also at enforcement and supervision. That's important, too. That is why I am asking: can we not make the effectiveness more transparent, balanced against the willingness to comply, but above all to include people in the interests of complying with these measures?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u115	I am grateful for this question. I see it as a very important advice. We have been trying to pursue this for a long time, because it is incredibly important to communicate clearly about it and to continue to do so. The feeling in many people is now: "This is gone. Maybe it won't come back either. What have all these measures done in the past?" If you add to that, it is the measures we have applied. I would like to express my gratitude for the great extent to which the Dutch citizen has acted very well on this for a long time. They are measures such as busy trying to keep a distance and wearing a mouth cap in public transport, for example, and on other occasions. The latter is something you've been using for a long time in the hospital world to prevent infection, but suddenly in this setting you're doing different things. That was not Dutch at all, but they did do it very widely. A very important measure is also being willing to test and act on yourself in case of complaints. Chapeau for how people did it. You could say, "I'm just gonna keep going." Then you brought whoever you were in contact with was a certain risk. People have really acted very well on that. I'm very happy about that. We must continue to communicate very well that such measures really work. It's about the combination. It is often said that there is not enough literature about it, but there is really literature about it. It's been looked at extensively.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u116	Once again, we hear the communication story that this minister and his predecessor have always hung up on measures: they would work. Only, my question has been as follows from the beginning, since we had to deal with this law. As a parliament, we must be able to assess whether these measures are actually effective. Now the Minister's communication story is: measures work, they have proven to be effective, et cetera. But we can't control it anywhere. We just need measurable, checkable and testable data to be able to control that. I have so far seen neither this minister nor his predecessor, nor the beginning of any support for the operation of measures. Now the Minister calls: vaccines work the very best. Fine, but then he should also make it clear that if, for example, the risk of infection is not contained by vaccines, you should not take measures against unvaccinated people or people who do not want to use QR code. So can the Minister indicate whether he is prepared, if measures are taken, to always provide measurable and accountable data to the parliament, so that we can check whether this effectiveness actually exists with such far-reaching measures?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u117	Mr Van Hattem himself has been there for the past two years, as we were all there at all kinds of times when a particular measure was being implemented, or often a set of measures. Right after that, you could or couldn't see what that did with an R-value and some infections. We can walk past the examples of the timeline of the last two years. Then you have seen over and over again that when tight measures were taken, that led to a massive drop of the R-value. With that, if a combination of measures were taken, for example, closing the catering industry at night and something else, could you demonstrate exactly what the effect of one of the two was? No. But you saw it had an effect. Whatever else would have happened, if it hadn't had any effect, you might have been able to draw it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u118	Again, assumptions. It's pure assumptions the minister makes. For example, we saw it at curfew. We still need an investigation into that. This has still been promised: an investigation into its effectiveness, or, in particular, its lack of effectiveness. We have now seen that young people in particular have experienced massive depression due to these unnecessary and often far-reaching measures with unproven effectiveness. So my question is: is the Minister still willing to provide us with this information, either in an evaluation or otherwise, so that we can check afterwards whether these measures have had an effect, including with a view to any further, future measures or permanent legislation in this context? 'Cause right now, it's just assumptions. It's said that those R-values dropped. But it has never been said in advance: in a given measure, these R values have to fall so much to know if it has had an effect. That was never really made clear in advance. So we've always been in the dark a little bit. As a parliament, we have never been able to effectively monitor whether measures worked. So my question is once again to the Minister: is he prepared to provide us as a parliament with the data that will enable us to check whether measures have been effective, and if measures are taken, or are they going to have that effect?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u119	First. I can give the same answer, but I really object to the word "assumptions." Then we're ridiculing each other and me and my answers. I have said that there have been all kinds of situations in the Netherlands and abroad where you can see what happened to the number of infections, and we can also calculate this extensively. In the Netherlands, RIVM does so with replication and R-value. If, for example, one and a half new people are infected on average per patient and you take certain measures in terms of keeping a mouth cap or something else, and then that infection rate goes directly from 1.5 to 0.5......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Can I rule out the peanut butter sandwich? No. But I assume that it is because of the measure, once again if we do so repeatedly every moment in time. So assumptions? Absolutely not. If I can only refer to literature, for example, I cannot say what in the Dutch setting, for example, is the impact of the advice for wearing a mouth cap in public transport. I can't tell you that. What I can tell you is, for example, about an article I have here from a combination of European and American researchers, who have looked at what they call non-pharmaceutical interventions, npis. They've divided them into three types. We are talking about distance, testing, detecting and isolating persons, and about hygiene measures. That's what they did internationally. They found 45 studies that looked at that. It's an English article, but I'll translate the conclusion into Dutch: "Despite heterogeneity between studies," which means that not everyone does exactly the same at any time; that's a scientific thing "are those measures, which are npis, as evaluated in the context of this systematic review, effective in reducing transmission and also in reducing the number of patients and mortality in Europe. And so they can be used as a response strategy to reduce the load of COVID-19 again in subsequent waves." It's one article. Can I fine-tune an individual measure in the Dutch setting exactly? No, I can't.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u120	Mr Van Hattem, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u121	The Minister now states that he sees a direct effect on certain measures, for example that the values go down when wearing a mouth cap in the Ov, et cetera. If he takes action, can the Minister indicate the expected impact of that measure? Because then, as a parliament, we can at least look at whether a measure has had its intended effect in a checkable, measurable way. If we have the intended effect of a measure clearly in advance, there is at least a kind of sustainability to see whether it works or not, or at least whether it meets the expectations. If it doesn't work at all, you shouldn't maintain such a measure. Over the past two years, we have always seen that measures have been maintained without any testability. We now see it happening again with the extension of this law, with the...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u122	Your question is clear, Mr. Van Hattem. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u123	I come to the answer I have just given, with the remark that I understand Mr Van Hattem's wish. He paraphrases my words, but I did not say that I can demonstrate the effect of mouth caps in Dutch public transport. I don't know, and I don't know.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u124	I hear the Minister saying that vaccines have actually reduced hospitalization. That's what I expect. To what extent does the Minister already know the impact of the second booster call? Is that comparable to the number of people who took the first booster?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u125	I will come back to the exact number and current status in the second term, because I do not know that by heart. I don't have it here. I can tell you that the turnout for the repeat bomber, the rounds we are doing now, is lower for the people in the 60 to 70-year-old age group than for 70-plus. We also started with that group a little later, but it also seems to stabilize a lower number. I'll give you the exact numbers in a moment. I don't remember the last status. I don't know what the impact of that is on the number of hospital admissions. There will undoubtedly be an impact, but I can't calculate it exactly. What I do know is that my comment is that we have seen before that the number of people with an up-to-date vaccination status included in a hospital bed and once more on the ic is significantly lower than the number of people who have not been vaccinated, or who have not received a recent vaccination, is therefore not up-to-date vaccinated. That's my answer. But how much we prevent through this round, I dare not tell you that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u126	No, but if I listen carefully to the Minister, it is true that the regular re-vaccination is very important, also given the limited duration of vaccination effectiveness.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u127	Yes. The answer is yes. What I've done before in previous phases is I've asked the Health Council. Should there be a repeat shot, and if so, when and for whom? I have now asked for a template in bad Dutch, a model on the basis of which we can make an assessment at what time you offer a repeat if necessary. Then, first of all, there will be an opinion from the RIVM. You should consider the number of infections, the possible new variant, the possible availability of a new vaccine aimed at that latest variant, and also the most recent data that we keep up-to-date on the level of protection for particularly seriously ill patients. For now, this means that there is no reason to offer people in those categories who have received the last vaccine shot again.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u128	The Minister has, of course, provided a lot of medical updates in the last half hour, and that was very interesting. We're talking about boosts. There's a study going on on over-death mortality, if I'm well informed. I've taken a good look at that, too, and you're seeing a huge spike in excess mortality at the end of last year, just before that booster came in. Across the country, boosters were much faster. There it was said "we boost the booster." The British did, and the Belgians were faster. I know people in my neighborhood who died of corona and received an invitation to a booster on the day of their funeral. Does the Minister think that there is a connection between the recent start of that booster and that peak in the excess mortality we saw at the end of last year? This is a very striking peak, which seems to be less in other countries. Is there a connection and can we see that the booster was just too late?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u129	It's a very logical question, but it's hard for me to answer while the analyses are still running. I just don't anticipate that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u130	When do you think that analysis will be completed?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u131	Let me come back to that later. I don't have that in my head either.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u132	I'd like to take the Minister back to the Twm. We have been working on this debate for a while, and I feel like there are two discussions going on. From the Minister understandably a kind of instrumental argument on the content, why it is good to take action. From this Chamber a more fundamental argument about the restriction of fundamental rights and so on. I haven't heard anyone say that measures wouldn't be necessary. I fully understand the instrumental argument of the Minister, but I also ask the Minister to understand and perhaps to comment more on the principled argument as it came out of the Chamber. It's not just about the measures. I would also ask the Minister for understanding and a little more attention in this debate to the argument of principle used by this Chamber to talk precisely about whether this temporary law should still be in force at the moment, or whether we are going to resolve it in a different way.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u133	I'm sorry, but I'm being guided by the questions I'm getting. I'm here just like you for the Twm and about structural change Wpg as a switch. Of course I answer the questions I get. I have all the attention and understanding for precisely that difficult balance between a temporary law and the possibility of taking action under that temporary law when the situation so requires, versus the legal hygiene, in terms of your President of the Chamber. As soon as I hear that, I have two comments to make. "Legal hygiene" can also mean that in a quiet phase, apart from the adaptation of a Wpg, you can talk about what kind of coat rack of measures you might want to have instead of having to discuss under steam and boiling water in an emergency. I have just indicated what this might mean in terms of directions to presidents of security regions and what they should do, as we did in the first wave. I was in a completely different role during the first wave. I was a member of a regional policy team, a regional crisis team from a security region. That's where I was ROAZ president. I know what happened then and what that meant for legal hygiene. That was done very carefully, but it was really a search. One of the ways in which I tried to fill that out was by looking for the minimum variants that have the least impact in terms of breaches of fundamental rights, while guaranteeing maximum rights to public health and so on. That consideration has been the basis for strongly reducing, undressing, a sixth extension. I couldn't do that before the fifth for reasons we discussed last time.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u134	Now the Minister describes the situation which was very much in the fog earlier. We know more. We've learned a lot. There's more to it than that. So it is not so much a question of what the cargo of the ship was that first sailed in the fog, but now can set a more clear course, but above all of what the ship is. That's what I think it's about right now. I would be very pleased if we could have the debate on this with each other. We can talk all day about 'if not this' and then at the end of the vote it turns out that 'this' is not, then it would be very good to look at 'what is'. The Minister is now simply saying: that is an emergency regulation and I am not in favour of it. In that case, the democratic legitimacy that was expected will indeed lapse. Then what is it? I think it would be a good idea for the rest of the debate to discuss this with each other, other than: an emergency regulation, but I do not want it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u135	Sure. I'll share that. Let me make this clear. In the debate, I have a very broad feeling that you are pursuing exactly what I and the cabinet are trying to achieve. How can we ensure maximum freedom and guarantee fundamental rights and yet, if necessary, act in a way that is necessary at that time? How can you make sure you think as far ahead as you can? You have already encouraged me to strive for an earlier adaptation of the Wpg. I'll get to that in a minute. This is exactly the search. I'll make the next decision. In a variety of ways, I have outlined the ambiguity we have now. In doing so, I take into account what is the best chance. I can't tell you exactly what the odds are. Sorry for the long answer. The best chance is that there's a stable omicron variant. The new mutations that are emerging I called BA.4 and BA.5........................................................................................................................................................... So far, there's been reasonable overall protection. During the summer period there are low infections. For now, we are in a fairly good position and, as you rightly say, we have a really different situation than two years ago, such as in the case of a variant such as a build-up of immune status. Then it is for the coming period to search and watch very closely what happens abroad and be prepared to act if necessary. I'll give you an example of today, topically, in America. That could be the situation with us in two weeks. I don't know. I hope not. Let's make that very clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u136	Finally, Mr Janssen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u137	If I travel by train to the Belgian Senate on Friday, I still have to wear my mouth cap at Hazeldonk. Then I'll do it and then I'll take it off when I'm outside the station. Those are the rules there. That's what's asked, so I'll do it. Then I am not going to argue there and say: but in the Netherlands it is not necessary. So let's just do that. That's not the point. I hope that the Minister has received my call that during the rest of this debate we should also look together to see how we can do it together instead of talking about how we can't do it until tonight after the votes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u138	Yeah, clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u139	I have been somewhat triggered by what the Minister says about the legal hygiene of the situation as it is when there would be no temporary law measures. He says: then it must all be decided in the security regions. But we have seen recently that these security regions were equally everywhere at the table, that even through the Security Council a lot of things were cooked up and then imposed. And then, as the whole of the Netherlands, we received a press conference from the Prime Minister or the Minister of VWS: yes, this is what is going to happen. To what extent has there been legal hygiene in this situation, with such rather managerial measures?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u140	In the past situation there have been several variants of the Twm. There was legal hygiene in the sense of the assessment, even every three months: Raad van State, Tweede Kamer, Eerste Kamer, Twm, with an adjustment of the Twm that we can talk about, as I did last time. This is a basis for taking or not taking measures during the period of application of the Twm, to which the security regions must, of course, contribute in a variety of ways. That's the situation. This is a different matter from the fact that the individual security region, without such a national legal framework, must give its own substance to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u141	The question is whether there can be no agreement on this. If it is necessary to get into such a situation, the Minister might as well sit down with a security region and ask: what do you intend to do and what coordinated agreements can we make on this? Now we have also had to deal with such a Security Council, which we had absolutely no idea about in terms of democratic legitimacy, either from the parliament or from the municipal councils. It is all at a different level than direct control.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u142	I think it would be sufficient to refer to the Council of State's assessment of the sixth extension. The Council of State indicated that the expiry of the Twm undoubtedly raises significant objections. A situation in which there is a recovery but no action can be taken is undesirable. And then I quote: "The chances that the legislator will intervene again too late because of the lack of that legal basis are considerable. The Section considers the risk to be unchanged in view of the potentially serious consequences."
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u143	Mr Van Hattem, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u144	Yeah, finally. Perhaps we should then find that such a Council of State is also walking alongside his shoes. It is an organization that has no democracy legitimacy. And they're actually filling up here...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u145	Mr Van Hattem, this is going a little far. You are now talking about a High College of State, which has been set up with the consent of Parliament. We are not going to talk about this in that way, as if it had no democratic legitimacy. I find that offensive. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u146	Mr President, you must listen carefully to what I have to say. The point is that the advice given by the Council of State has no democratic legitimacy. This is something that should be at the Lower House, if there should be such an initiative, or if necessary to the Cabinet to deposit it with the Lower House. But now the Council of State, as a non-democratically elected body, is pulling an initiative towards itself and saying 'it must be done this way'. Instead of judging for a sec, we are going to anticipate our own steps. That's why I say they're walking next to their shoes. That is why I think that the defence that the Minister puts forward here, namely that the Council of State says that we should do it this way, is a false argument in this discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u147	I do not know whether the question is whether Mr Van Hattem is going to pass it on to the Council of State or whether I should do so. I want to do it heartily. For now, I have to do with the opinion of the Council of State, which I have just quoted literally. I'd like to repeat that if necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u148	Of course, I have every respect for the High College of State, the Council of State. However, I would like to point out, also in support of what Mr Van Hattem said, that in the corona crisis we, as the First Chamber, have very often outsourced all kinds of problems against the opinion of our group to the Council of State. The Council of State then decided what the First Chamber should do. That can also be mentioned in addition. We have always said: decide for ourselves and do not outsource everything to the Council of State. But that's not my question. My question is this. Of course, things have happened in the last two years. We don't have to rehashing all that, because it's known. Much has gone wrong, but what has gone wrong, above all, I have already mentioned to the Prime Minister in 2020 that we have reached a negative feedback loop between the government and the population. I warned about that in 2020. I fear that this was still a euphemism in retrospect, because there has been an enormous distrust. There's a huge speckling swarm running through society. Hopefully that will heal a bit now, but I'm afraid there's been a lot of damage done. Hopefully this law will help. How does the Minister intend to resolve this, in advance? I am seriously concerned about that, even when I see what is happening around all kinds of conspiracy theories. That's getting more and more out of control. That's not gone.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u149	I think your question is clear, Mr. Otten.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u150	How are you going to heal that, that distrust between the government and a significant part of the population?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u151	I share that concern. Like you, I see the expressions of that every day, in all kinds of ways. A lot of things aren't even about corona, the pandemic or testing anymore, nowadays it's about everything. If I just focus on my portfolio, care and curative care, I can see that in the meantime it focuses on many employees, daily. The employees in the care work very hard every day to get the capacity in order for example and to get all kinds of other things done. But where there was applause during the very first wave, there is now a total change. I don't have the solution, other than to keep communicating. For example, when it comes to corona, my staff and I continue to say that we are really convinced that it should be a free choice for you to be vaccinated, but we are trying to explain as best as possible what the benefits of vaccination are. But I can see that with these kinds of arguments you can't reach people at all anymore. Nowadays that is addressed in the care I now confine myself to care much wider than just on corona.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u152	That's what I hear. I've spoken to several doctors and people in the healthcare sector in the last few weeks. They all said the corona is gone, but the aggression has remained. That's what the Minister says. That is very worrying, because it also spreads across all kinds of other areas. That is what we warned you about: beware of what you do, you have to make democratically motivated, transparent decisions and also communicate transparently.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u153	What's your question, Mr. Otten?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u154	That didn't happen. I really think that should be a priority.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u155	We're gonna talk about the order. The interruptions are for brief questions. I'll give you a second term later. You can make your statements or request speaking time. You will have every opportunity to do so. Interrupts are for short questions. If you don't agree, we're going to discuss that in the Seniors' College.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u156	That's how we know each other, Mr. Chairman. I think it's a very big problem. This is one of the biggest problems that Dutch society is currently undermining. So I'd like to hear from the cabinet how they think they're gonna solve this, because this is definitely not under control yet. That is a serious question, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u157	Apart from the answer I just gave, I agree with the problem. I recognize it. This calls, among other things, for communication and for very clear positions to be taken. We have just talked about a good designation of the possible impact of measures and interventions. But I don't have the overall solution yet. And I hardly think people with me. One of the reasons is to have us advised by all kinds of other parties much wider than in the past. You have seen this in the long-term approach. These are the questions: how do you communicate well and how do you deal with them?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u158	Mr President, on a point of order. We have all sworn allegiance to the Constitution. I do not think it is possible for one of the Members to say that the Council of State has no democratic legitimacy. I don't think that's possible. We may once differ from the Council of State. It's okay. This is also happening in debates of this kind. But it's a constitutional gremium. I find this unacceptable in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u159	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u160	Then I shall continue to answer the questions relating to the Twm. Then I come to the question...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u161	May I suggest that we give the Minister the opportunity to conclude the subject of Twm before there are any questions and that we do the same with the three issues that will come next? We are now somewhere in the second of the five subjects and we are an hour and a half away.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u162	Yeah, sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u163	So given the time...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u164	In the meantime, I can tell you that we have had pieces of other subjects.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u165	Also because we are still being suspended for two hours, I suggest that we see if the spokesmen can agree to this. We are always going to let the Minister finish the matter and stop the interruptions until the end of each block. I can even see thumbs up now. I also see faces and heads that are nodding. I note that everyone agrees with that. That's how we're gonna do it. So now the Minister can finish the issue of extension Twm. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u166	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mrs Nanninga asked: on what criteria are measures taken? Is that, for example, the ic capacity, the recordings, the infections or the heaviness of the variant? That is a very fair question. I'll take a look with you at two years ago, originally, at the very beginning, the first wave. The only thing we had at first was ic-recording. It wasn't until later that they were hospitalizations. At first it was only the ic-recordings, and later also the hospitalizations. At first, we didn't have the last data. We had to send on that, knowing that that was actually driving on the highway with only looking in the rearview mirror. The people you recorded on the ic had been infected two weeks earlier, so to speak. In the second instance, the images of the number of infections were added. At the time, it was mostly a clutch. We know that in the summer of 2020 we had minimum parameters and different degrees: 20 ic-recordings per day and 50 clinic recordings. Even later in time, especially at the time we had the vaccinations, it was steering on a combination of vaccination rates, infections and hospitalizations, also knowing that we had other variants then, which were more and less... For example, you remember the British variant, early 2021. So then it became a sort of palette. Further in time, with the increase in the vaccination rate, and especially with the Omikron variant, we have, especially in the first quarter of this year, actually mainly directed to numbers of infections. Of course, we also looked at hospitalizations with a slanted eye. But it's actually always a combination of factors. You can't quite capture it in concrete. Let me give you one example. In the care itself, in the summer of 2020 there was a restructuring plan, in which different phases, different phases, were established. Phase one is completely calm. There were phases 2a, b, c and d. Phase 3 was later often called "code black": there is no capacity for the patients. We thought, partly based on the experiences from the first wave, that those were clear criteria, so you knew exactly when you went from 2a to 2b, to 2c et cetera. At some point, with the changing vaccination status and the other variant, for example, we saw the pressure on the clinic instead of on the ic. Then the pressure came on a number of people outside hospital care, in the first line, instead of at the clinic and on the ic. And then all of a sudden, those phases had to be redefined. So I say in the answer that these are the parameters. In time, that changes, too. So gradually we have a real palette in that respect. Mr. Chairman. Mr Van der Voort asked about Rule 58g and the formation of groups. It lapses, but the ban on opening public places, Article 58h, does not lapse. The relevant article regulates the power to lay down conditions for the opening up of public places. That therefore contains more than just closure. For example, you can see that in the past we have set conditions for placement, controlled entry and exit of the public and, for example, the opening up of the catering industry. So there's a distinction. Mr. Chairman. Mr Van der Voort also asked about the quarantine obligation for persons travelling, stating that in the past it was often either too late or ineffective. As I said, there is a continuous monitoring of the emergence of possible new variants abroad. I have just mentioned the definitions, including those of the ECDC, regarding the variants that are worrying. It may be necessary to act on this in a particular situation. But I fully agree with Mr Van der Voort: if you do that, you have to do it in good time and early. In the past we have seen regularly, actually from the very beginning, that we only did this quite late and that such a variant was already very widespread in the Netherlands. Then there was a question from Mr Van der Voort concerning Article 58o, the designation by ministerial regulation of care locations. Isn't that patronizing? Can't they take care of that on their own? That article regulates the specific care obligations of healthcare providers, in short, to ensure that visitors, for example, can comply with measures, something that was really an issue at the very beginning of the first wave. You can remember the discussion about visitor schemes in nursing homes. Mr. Chairman. Mr Verkerk asked whether the Minister could promise that all measures affecting fundamental rights would only be activated with the permission of the Chambers. I have heard this request very clearly and taken note of it. The issue of parliamentary involvement is part of the decision-making of the cabinet in the context of a first tranche adjustment of a Wpg. So we'll definitely talk about that later. Mr. Chairman. Those were the questions about the temporary law.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u167	Thank you, Minister. Then I don't see any interruptions. The structural change in Wpg has already been dealt with by the interruptions? That is an informative question, I say in response to the cheerful reactions from the benches. It's not a suggestive question, it's an informative question. I see you have a number of remaining issues.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u168	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u169	And Mrs. Nanninga has another interruption about the Twm. Go ahead, Mrs. Nanninga.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u170	Thank you for the answers. That is indeed a much better result on that series of questions that has been asked many times, including by our group. That brings me to the next question. So what was the indicator for the latter, this fifth extension? That was a clear answer. Then why is there again... For the things the Minister mentions are actually all signals on green, if those are the standards.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u171	Sure. Two-way... two-way... If we look at the fifth extension, I can also, and passerby, go directly into what will be explicitly or implicitly the follow-up question on the sixth extension. As you know, in the situation where the fifth extension was and is still in force, we opened up Dutch society very quickly in four steps, as it is called, and removed the measures. We did that knowing that it would lead to very high numbers of infections and thus also to the loss of many people. Possibly many people would also become seriously ill. So there was also a chance that you would have to reverse the cessation of a measure at some point and do something. I mentioned the example of the United States. We see that now in a single place in the United States also happen again. That was what was taken into account. We took a calculated risk and could not be sure that we should not take certain steps back. With regard to the sixth extension, we have just considered what the situation is and what the potential threat in that situation is.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u172	Would you like to specify it when you have finished the structural changes block Wpg? Then the interruptions can be done afterwards.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u173	Yes, I will. Mr. Chairman. I come first to a question from Mr Janssen. Why has there not been immediate implementation of the Heink motion and is there no legislative proposal yet? When adopting the Heink motion, my predecessor indicated that it is important to include the results of evaluations in a structural adjustment of the Wpg. At the same time, it has been pointed out that there would be no waiting for an overall evaluation, but that there would already be work on parts of it. I have input on a number of parts that should at least be discussed, whether or not they come into a final adaptation of the Wpg. This is not just about the possibility... Mrs De Bruijn has already explained this in full in the first round. As you know, the Wpg focuses on acting on an individual patient with an infectious disease or on a local outbreak. An individual patient with open tuberculosis, an individual patient or a family or an institution with, for example, an outbreak of typhoid or something like that: that is what the Wpg focuses on. But it did not focus on tackling a pandemic that affected millions of people in a short period of time and which required measures, including in respect of protection, in a completely different way. You can say that we have failed to deal with this in good time. You may address me and my predecessors, but there was a gap there. There's been a lot of practice on pandemics. There's always been a warning. There are all kinds of things decorated for it. But a good legal framework was and is not there. So now there is a need to discuss possible measures that you need to be able to take and when there is a basis for them, but I also mentioned it earlier about positioning other structures in healthcare, such as national guidance of a GGD or, if necessary, very clear guidance, including a mandate, of regional care. To do that right, you really need more time. My predecessor has put a great deal of effort on that. I have changed that in that sense, including your Chamber and the Council of State's advice, and I have said that we must do this differently. Because we can wait for that discussion, but then, so to speak, we wait until 2023. We really have to do it differently, but then we have to adjust the Wpg in instalments. So that is an answer to the question of why it took so long. Mr. Chairman. I come to questions from Mr Nicolaï, Mrs Prins and Mr Van der Voort. Following that, they focus on the question: what is the obstacle to a bill of amendment to Wpg in a few weeks' time, in which a sleeping toolbox is arranged, and not just in December? Has any thought been given to the timing of the next extension in the middle of the recess? Could it have been otherwise? What measures will be included in the first instalment? Is the Minister planning to send adjustments in the Wpg to the Lower House before the summer and can this be accelerated? First of all, as I have just mentioned, this is a structural legal framework for collective measures to combat A-diseases. In this respect, I do intend to provide for a procedure to enable powers to be exercised for a disease to be identified within the A group, with the involvement of both Chambers. The timing for this is as follows. We're working on it now. The intention is to submit this at the end of August. Let's take a look back when it should be sooner, as requested. It has been hard worked on in the past period. I would almost say'since the last debate here', but it has already been worked on. Submission at the end of August means that a consultation proposal should be available by 3 June. Those are the steps that need to be taken. They're working hard on it. It's moving fast. But can I submit it in full within a few weeks? No. You can speed it up a little if, for example, you take out the consultation round, but you will agree with me that it is wise, in all the care that this requires, to include that consultation round. Mr. Chairman. Those were the supplementary questions I had under this heading. A number of things have just passed by.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u174	And that's been inspiring.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u175	I'll be very brief. This minister is, of course, here because of his coordinating role when it comes to infectious diseases. But the Council of State has also found that not only the Public Health Act, but also the Emergency Law is dated. In addition, the Justice Department is referred to as a tractor. I can see that myself in a coherent context. It could be a pandemic, but it could also be a nuclear threat or some other way of really needing it. Can the Minister, despite the fact that it is about his colleague, give a closer look at whether the Justice Department is involved in this process and is also taking an active part in this process?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u176	I do not want to answer for my colleague, so I would very much like to pass on the question. I did not mention one of the points that really touch on this issue. I mentioned a number of points: the Verwey-Jonker report, the evaluation, the OVV report and so on. This includes, of course, an evaluation of the Security Regions Act, to name a few.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u177	Yes, but not just the evaluation of the Security Regions Act. The report of the Council of State is broader. I understand that you cannot give an answer at the moment, because then you will be too much in the domain of your colleague. Can you pass this on so that we can get a letter from your colleague or be informed about it somehow?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u178	Yeah, I'd love to pass it on, but I can't answer for her. Thank you for your understanding.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u179	One of my questions was: what did the Minister find when he started converting the Temporary Law measures to the Wpg? I have just heard the Minister say: I did it differently, because it had to be different and we have been working very hard since the last debate. But then I do not understand why the previous minister, his predecessor, had already said that we are going to do things differently, I have heard you all very well and before Christmas you will see how we are going to change that. That didn't happen before Christmas, but it became January. I hear the Minister now saying: I actually started doing it myself, because there was nothing there. Is that summary of mine correct?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u180	Mr Janssen's question was: what did you find? First of all, and I mean that sincerely, not what I found, but what was all my assessment and also my aftertaste is now that I am a while further on: much appreciation for my predecessor and a department of the city, this sounds like an open door, but I really mean it and I would like to say that I have worked very hard over the past two years to ensure that a lot of things were picked up. Often they did so in an execution mode and they were tasks that in the past were not at all in the Ministry of VWS, but that now simply had to be picked up and took the lead. I see how busy my predecessor has been. With regard to the stakes on the Wpg, I found in the discussion that they were very strong. I also found that understandable in the dynamics of a cycle with a very short turnover, actually responding to the variability, the volatility as I have just called it, of a virus and a pandemic situation. One sat in a cycle of temporary law, Raad van State, Tweede Kamer, Eerste Kamer, intermediate OMT-advies, Gezondraadadvies, performance et cetera. In my first period as VWS Minister, I asked for an estimate to be made of 80% of the time, while the questions in the care are very large and very broad and so it has to be done in a slightly different way. In addition, the focus was very much on: we are in this cycle and we do so as we work on and steer on an adjustment of a Wpg as a.I only do it with large gestures... one complete, large, thorough adjustment: once a permanent Wpg adjustment. We're gonna put that in a different way now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u181	First of all, I agree with the broad support and appreciation for everything that is opposed. That was a lot and that is also very much appreciated, but that is not what this Chamber has been told. Since the third extension, we have discussed here that it seemed to have been extended and that it really had to land somewhere in the Wpg. At that time, it was also promised that we would do so. I now understand from the Minister that his predecessor, Mr Tugendhat, is not here at the moment, and the Ministry, too, has been in the state of 'the big bang' up until this spring, I shall say, on the basis of evaluations and discussions. This minister didn't do that anymore, because he saw that wasn't going to happen anymore. But our question has been from the third extension: come now with an adjustment, because this 'temporary' really must remain temporary. From then on, we have always said: this is not sustainable. That's why I asked: was that in that line? That was actually my first question. I understand from the Minister that there was no such thing and that the other line was followed. And this minister has changed that course. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u182	This Minister has changed the rate in terms of adjusting the Wpg in instalments. Thus I do not aim to adjust the total and at once, so for example also to take along a possible different positioning of the GGD in crisis time, et cetera. Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u183	I welcome the Minister's answer, because that is fair. So, if I understand correctly, there was really nothing in front of that "intermediate law," I'll just say. But actually, if I remember correctly, we talked about this with this new minister two or three months ago. Then we also made the suggestion: come up with an interim law. Then why is it still taking so long? A proposal for that interim law could have been made by now, couldn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u184	It is true, the interim law has meanwhile become a first instalment for the adaptation of the Wpg. The approach is no different, but it is a bit clearer what we are talking about. The term "intermediate law" appeared to lead to some confusion in the discussions. Then what exactly are we talking about and what is that? That is why we have come to a slightly different name. And about the pace, I say, I think it's really fast. We can't come up with an adjustment of the Wpg in a few weeks. We have talked about this recently, and in the week of 3 June it is for consultation. In my opinion, that is fast, also given what officials should do for that purpose.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u185	I will shortly have to implement an approved order proposal from this Chamber to suspend. So Mr Nicolaï can now ask one more question. We'll save the rest of the questions for after the suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u186	I have to go to that meeting myself at 5:00 p.m. The Minister mentioned the interim bill. He was talking about the involvement of both chambers. But I suppose the Minister means that both chambers simply have control of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u187	I will answer that very briefly. Let us talk about what the content of the interim law is going to look like, if this is the case. As I said, there will be a consultation on 3 June.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u188	Mr Otten has a short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u189	Yes, very briefly. I just heard the Minister say that he lost 80% of his time to all these consultative bodies.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u190	In the first phase.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u191	In the first phase. He said: I lost 80% of my time to all these consultative bodies, preparations, etc., etc. That scared me a little bit. That certainly strengthens me in the conclusion that I drew in the first term, namely that something needs to be streamlined and reorganised. It seems to me that that insight has now also fallen into the hands of the Minister. I'm really freaked that's gonna take so much time. Then there is no time at all to do anything else or reflect on policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u192	That's right. I emphasized that this was the case in the first phase. Meanwhile, the situation is really different, but in the beginning it was absolutely so. This means that there was only limited opportunity to devote time to other dossiers as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u193	Thank you. I note that this has completed the subject of'structural change of the Wpg'. I see the Minister nodding. Then I'm going to suspend until 7:00 p.m. before the break.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u194	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the legislative proposal 36042 and the draft decision 35526, 25295, letters EH. I give the floor to the Minister of Health, Welfare and Sport.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u195	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I had two more issues to deal with: long-term approach and a cup of others. I'll start with the long-term approach. There were a number of questions. First of all, Mrs Baay and Mr Recourt, but also members of other parties, asked how I see the long-term corona policy and what implementing measures are needed. I told you, Corona is not over, I'm afraid. Let us hope that we quickly find ourselves in a situation where with the previously built-up immunity and with a current variant there are few people who have such long-term complaints, fall out or need so much help that at some point we still need to take mitigation measures, other than what people themselves can do and what we offer with possible re-vaccination etc. But then the strategy of the cabinet, unlike in the past, you have been able to read it on two equal, secondary goals. These are social and economic continuity and vitality, and accessibility of the care chain for patients with covid, but also, of course, for people with other conditions. Those numbers are, as you know, much larger at all times. So those are the targets. They're all together. I believe that the enormous impact that previous measures have had on our youth over the last two years in terms of social isolation and psychological complaints, etc., has just passed through the debate. That alone is a good basis for saying: let us all please try to ensure that we do not have to close schools again, that we do not have to stop sport for young people again and that we do not have to go back on that kind of steps. That's what we're focusing on. It's called, with a beautiful credo, an open society. But that also means something about the role that each party must play in its own environment. I have already considered this in the first answer, including in my introduction. For example, preventive actions are involved. If necessary, this is also a question of limiting contact measures. That's what we're putting overalls on. I, along with my colleagues, intend to inform the two Chambers in mid-June about the development of the sectoral plans. I have indicated that the plans for education are already in place. Mrs Prince and Mr Janssen asked: have the toolbox and the wallet of the entire chain been put in order for a next stage of covid? Are the parties well equipped? Is the G.D.D. really ready? I've just been thinking about the G.D.D. Are the toolbox and the wallet in order with regard to the care? As for the wallet, yes, money is available. I have just talked about where we stand with, for example, regional insights into capacities and regional coordination, but also, if necessary, with, for example, the reception of patients at home, with or without oxygen and medication etc. That means we absolutely can't sit back. Much work needs to be done. It is up to me to speak to people; I do so in all places. We also really need to get every care provider, every region and ROAZ et cetera in active mode. 'Cause it's got to be in that place. I can't set up a care coordination centre regionally. I cannot, for example, have the opportunity to monitor patients at home at a regional hospital. What I can do is ask the question, talk to people, give examples, etc. In summary: is the GGD ready to scale up if necessary? Yes. Is the care in all places ready yet? Then the answer is no. This brings me automatically to Mr Van Hattem's question: what is the Minister doing to scale up the capacity of the healthcare chain, in particular the ic capacity? To what extent is this already being done? Then I refer to the plan that was already made in the summer of 2020, at the time with a lot of interested parties from the field: hospitals, nurses, doctors, medical specialists, ambulance care, health insurance companies and so on. There a plan has been made for scaling up hospital capacity at different stages, both clinic and ic, ambulance and transport capacity, with the National Coordination Centre Patients Spreading et cetera. That plan is still the current plan. I have already indicated that this needs to be extended to include regional coordination of care, and in the meantime, for example, it needs to be extended to include care facilities for patients at home. And there is also insight through such a nationwide platform in capacity and regional in capacity other than hospital beds. Meanwhile, we have often seen that the pressure was in very different places. That's what I do to my people. Mr Verkerk asked what the cabinet will do in the coming months to increase this broad social resilience, as advised in a KNAW report, and how the cabinet will encourage society to assume its own responsibility. As I have said, I do so with colleagues, including from OCW, SZW, EZK, in cooperation. Each of these ministers also shares things with one's own party individually. But we also specifically ask for the plans and indicate the urgency and importance of each sector itself, for example in terms of prevention or reduction and as much as possible to mitigate the risk of staff failure, possibly again in the coming long autumn, winter and early spring next year. So far with regard to the long-term approach. Let me point out that, of course, we will soon be discussing this again and more fully with your Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u196	That debate is in July, I believe.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u197	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u198	Yes. Thank you, Minister. Mr. Janssen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u199	A quick question. My question was a little broader, but just to clarify, because I would like to hear more reassuring messages from the Minister. My question wasn't just about the G.D.D. and the care. The concern is our permanent source of concern, I would say. But it was also about whether sufficient capacity and resources are now available at RIVM. It was about the health advisory chain...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u200	You're gonna have to keep pressing the microphone, Mr. Janssen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u201	That's what I was doing, but he just got shot away, excuse me. In particular, it was also about the health advisory chain, i.e. the RIVM, the Health Council, Lareb et cetera. Are these organizations, which may be a little bit out of control or in the light of the present situation, going to be put in place soon? Because, in my opinion, they are organisations that are not huge, and if they need to be scaled up, that means a lot.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u202	Yeah, once. The most direct answer is: yes, they are prepared for that. I have just mentioned something about RIVM. You call Lareb and the Health Council. Apart from the fact that the Health Council is able to give advice every time it is needed, I have also asked in advance for that model. I keep looking for the Dutch word. But I mean the model on the basis of which we can say much more proactively when, for example, a new vaccination is to be offered to a particular target group at some point.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u203	Finally, Mr President. That reassures me. It is up to me and my group to ensure that, at the moment of need, we do not have to discuss funding again and so on, but that it is clear from the front that these agreements are there, and that if we can scale them up, there can also be scaled up on the content and that there are no obstacles anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u204	That's right. I would like to highlight two aspects. One aspect is the GDD. I have already mentioned it for a while: I have real respect for and am happy with the commitment of the GGDs. It's really a challenge to retain staff and maintain locations and also have a reserve pool actively involved with you for a moment in time when the chance is very real that we need them again, whether it's for testing, vaccinating or both, but you don't know when it is. They do this, for example, with the use of medical students. Medical students graduate at some point, start their studies or do something else. Then you must have the next team of medical students ready. They are now set up, but that remains something with which they have to work actively. One of the things they do with that, too, is that they are quite a lot... At some locations is both vaccinated and tested, but they also have separate locations. It is now being deployed to make the remaining locations into combination locations, so that you can do both of them and slide them into capacity, depending on what is needed. That's one. Then there's another example. It's a long example, but it's important. I've already turned that in. I really think it's important to keep talking about this and zoom in on it. Then it's about sufficient capacity in care. I do not mean so much as sufficient primary care for the influx of covid patients as is necessary. It is also about the combination of care, the reduction of waiting lists and the reception of many other patients. You have seen figures, for example from the Dutch Healthcare Authority, about the increased waiting lists of patients undergoing surgery. You can see in this period that the waiting list stabilizes in hospitals, but it doesn't get any shorter. Then there's a discussion about how to get enough capacity. I would like to mention one example, namely the use and cooperation of self-employed treatment clinics. That's just an example. It really is a point that requires constant attention. It's a tough problem. This is also understandable, because of the shortage of staff, the rising demand for care, etc.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u205	Perhaps I should first of all agree with that last point, about the shortage of staff and the like. The capacity in care is also something I have repeatedly asked for. That is something we continue to run into in the Netherlands. So far, for example, I do not see large-scale recruitment campaigns from the VWS ministry, such as: come work in healthcare; get started with your hands on the bed; become a doctor, nurse, etc. We do not actually see that commitment happening yet, which is and will be absolutely necessary, regardless of whether there is another outbreak. So my question to the Minister is next. There are reservations about the need for capacity and organisation at regional level. All nice and kind, but what's the minister gonna do about those hands on the bed? What is he going to do to optimise this in the coming years and also in the coming years?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u206	I also appointed it yesterday in another meeting. For a team leader, a unit head, a location manager, an ok-manager, an ic-head, the first topic on the agenda has been on the agenda for a very long time and in capital letters: staff. That was before covid. The second item on the agenda is staff. The third item on the agenda is staff. Then there'll be nothing for a long time and then there'll be a lot of other issues. That was already true for covid, and it still is. That's really constantly on the agenda of people in all areas, nurses, team leaders, etc. Fill it out. This has contributed to the fact that in recent years, since 2016, I have been referring to a WRR report "the number of employees working in the care sector has increased by about 80,000. I'm referring to WRR numbers: 80,000 plus. But the deficit is increasing just as much. The WRR report has rightly indicated that the biggest challenge in the care is the match, or mismatch, if you like, between the increasing demand for care that is there for all kinds of reasons; just think about the increasing population and ageing population and the human shortages. Those human shortages, whatever we do to commit... we have to do a lot. There is also a lot happening from the health care institutions and everything from the government. But whatever we do about it, we really need to take into account that we really need to do things differently and not do certain things anymore. We have to make choices, because otherwise we will not get rid of those shortages in care. You may not see enough of this, but we can show you. If you google yourself, you will have a multitude of programs, advertisements, etc. within a few minutes. There's an incredible amount going on.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u207	It should be the case that I don't have to google it, but that I'm being thrown to death with calls to do so. It is then that people become aware that this is the right choice for a subject area, a job and so on.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u208	Mr President, I apologize for the interruption. But you almost don't want to see it, not to see it. Everything's full of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u209	Even so, I would say that there can always be more, and certainly with the funding on the other side. Because we can summon people, but then, of course, there must be a decent salary. In consultation with health insurance companies, there is a clear need to increase the budget so that people are also attracted to work in care. I just heard the Minister speak of an open society; I had asked for it. He said that he also wants to keep the schools open. Of course, other training courses are included.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u210	What's your question, Mr. Van Hattem?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u211	My question is this. I hear the Minister talking about this open society. He says: I want to keep the schools open. But my question is specific: does the Minister want to keep society open for everyone? Because I also hear him talking about anti-contact measures. What does the Minister mean by that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u212	You're looking for an open society and at the same time you're looking for accommodation for people who get sick and need help. Mind you, that goes in full width, so these aren't just covid patients; there are many other patients. They have regularly had to wait long, too long, over the last two years. If you want to combine these things, there may be times when you ask people to put on a mouth cap at certain locations. Then it may be that you ask people to set up locations so that you keep your distance, et cetera. Is that gonna happen? I don't know. I can't look in a glass ball any more than you can. Just, for now, it's really wise to take it into account. These are measures that are effective, of course, depending on the degree of compliance. They are measures that, in many places, involve little social and literal costs in relation to many other measures, but are therefore effective and can help to keep society, including education, genuinely open.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u213	Mr. Van Hattem, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u214	Finally, Mr President. It is only a question of whether it costs little, because it may cost quite a lot to socialize if people are asked to be excluded somewhere, because contact restrictions have been discussed. My question is: are we talking about measures that can exclude people who are targeted at the person? This can be done, for example, by using a corona pass or a vaccination certificate. It can also be another means that is bound to a person, because of a personal status, which, for example, does not allow a parent to go to swimming lessons. Does the Minister also refer to such anti-contact measures?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u215	Well, then we'll have to tear it apart for a while. This debate follows a fifth and a sixth extension of the Twm. That sixth extension doesn't include any more corona admissions. We haven't used these in the Netherlands for a long time. So that's the most direct answer. We don't currently have a situation with the use of the corona pass. Could such a situation arise? Can there be a situation where there is something like this again, for example, whether or not to visit somewhere? Theoretically, you can. I can't rule it out.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u216	I'm gonna take a look at these huge deficits in health care. Why do I not hear the Minister say daily: I need so much billion to fill those vacancies and give those people a normal salary? Why aren't the health insurance companies being contacted? There are tens of billions of excess cash in the balance sheet. You can bet on that, can't you? In the corona crisis, we also tabled a motion to use it. My question to the Minister is: why do you not fight harder, in the cabinet and in public, to ensure that billions will come in the short term to pay them adequately? Inflation is 10% and the purchasing power of everyone in care is also falling very fast. I would, if I had so many deficits, make sure that there could be more budget. That makes sense, doesn't it? Otherwise, these people won't get it either. Then it will cause much more damage to the economy, until there is another pandemic.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u217	Perhaps then it would be useful to sit here with the entire cabinet and have a broader social debate. You see, like me, what the labour market is like right now. I understand that we are currently at an all-time high with more than 130 vacancies per 100 unemployed. It has its impact. That has its impact on education. That has its impact on the care. That has its impact on public transport. That has its impact on retail, on business, on the financial world and very broad. Then we can sit together. In the last six years, 80,000 extra people have come to work in health care. We needed them very much. Nevertheless, we still have a lot of vacancies. At the moment, one in six people with a job in care work. The WRR report indicated that if we keep the rate of growth at which we now grow, by 2030 is one in five, by 2040 one in four and by 2050 one in three people with a job in care work. What the WRR already indicates, I just need to repeat and confirm: that is a development that simply does not seem sustainable. Suppose we manage to stay with those one in six with an incredible amount of effort. In recent years, the influx into care has been greater than the outflux. That also translates into that increase. We've had years before that in which it was exactly the other way around. In recent years, there has been an increase. Let's say we're able to stay stable now, and it's still the case that one in six people with a job in health care work. The WRR predicts that, apart from very special demographic developments, the number of people with jobs will remain in the same order of magnitude in the coming years. So there are just as many people staying in care, while the number of patients is rising enormously. That means you have to do things differently in all kinds of ways. That also means making choices. It is a long answer, but it is the reality that we will often see coming back. For example, I mention that the number of patients with a diagnosis of cancer is growing every year by between 2% and 3%.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u218	It would be very good if the cabinet would come up with a holistic vision, including with tax reform and so on, but it will not. Of all those people in healthcare, international competitions also show, 20% are overhead and management in the Netherlands. I also heard the minister say: manager this, manager that, manager sister. That's what we saw on Corona. That was also the point in my first term. There is a huge model of consultation bodies, health councils, health services, regional. That should be addressed. Then there will also be a budget for the people in care and there will also be more fun in the work, because they are no longer busy with meetings and forms all day.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u219	What's your question, Mr. Otten?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u220	I still miss the Minister's approach to dealing with these clay layers and these huge non-productive matters a little more ambitious. Of course, this could be ideal by amending the Public Health Act. It could be arranged really well there for once.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u221	In the meantime, I have the impression that we are getting very far away from the Twm.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u222	I have that impression, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u223	We will not regulate the number of management layers in a healthcare facility in the Wpg. It is not unwise to just light up your light over the number of layers for once. You will soon see that an average care institution, or that there is one for people with disabilities or a neighbourhood nursing institution or a general practitioner's practice or hospital, is an excellent example of a very flat organisation with very few layers between, for example, a nurse and the driver.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u224	I feel like we've reached the other block.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u225	Here we come automatically.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u226	That is what the agreement is for us to finish that block first and then go to the interruptions. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u227	Mr. Chairman. There was a question from Mr Janssen: Wob's requests showed that not all the information was shared with the Chamber; could the Minister be open about the past, present and future information to the Chamber? I want that very much. During the entire corona crisis, your Chamber with detailed stock letters has always been informed in writing about decision-making on corona measures. I think it is very important to continue that line. Besides, there's a lot going on. There was a reference to wobbens. A great deal is happening with the provision of documentation on this subject. That is a very large number of documents from VWS alone. So there's a lot going on there. Mr Janssen asked for additional information on the documentation that has emerged over the past few days if it had been sent to less rather than more ic capacity. For now, let me answer the following. If my predecessor and the ministry at a hospital note that it has 10 ic-beds for covid standard, for example, that is in the annual reports and on the website et cetera................................................................................................................................................................................. I think that is a normal starting point for a Dutch citizen, a Dutch government, a health insurance company, a patient and so on. Mr. Chairman. Mr Verkerk asked about the situation in the BES islands: the vaccination rate is relatively low and what additional measures will the Minister take there? The full vaccination rate of subjects 12 years of age and over on Bonaire, Saba and Sint-Eustatius is 79%, 94% and 63%, respectively. The campaigns in question in the islands are continuing. As in the Netherlands, the vaccination rate for booster pricks is lower. A study was carried out in the autumn of last year to look at ways of strengthening that further. They are now being applied, such as a very neighborly approach. Then Mr Van Hattem asked: is the Minister prepared to send the European Commission back into its booth and how does the Minister judge the Commission's interference? You will not be surprised that the cabinet is in favour of strengthening European cooperation where this adds value to the health of our citizens. This applies, for example, to cross-border health threats. This means preparedness and reporting the emergence of new variants within Europe. The main focus is on staying vigilant. Mr Van Hattem also asked: does the Minister continue to rely on the judgement of the WTO influenced by China, and why is the Netherlands strongly committed to binding powers for the WTO? The WHO is the organisation for the international sharing of signals on infectious diseases. Let me give you an example of the past few weeks: collecting and sharing interesting information about a particular type of inflammation of the liver in children in the Netherlands. In the meantime, this has given rise to liver transplantation several times in Groningen. I recognise the central and crucial role of the WHO in the World Health Architecture. China's role is similar to that of other countries. Expert panels say the implementation of international health schemes was insufficient during the covid pandemic. Just directing information to each other and sharing it is extremely important if, for example in the case of covid, we want to be prepared in good time for the emergence of new variants that are worrying. Mrs De Bruijn asked me to make a commitment that I am actively working on giving insight into the balance between proportionality and subsidiarity with the corona access card and the power of closure. I have just said that the corona ticket is not part of the proposed sixth extension for the time being. You saw that. When it comes to the long-term effects, I will send a letter to the Chambers in mid-June. We shall also say something about closure powers and circumstances. I would like to come back to two questions which were left with the answer earlier because I did not have the data. I'll have it in the meantime. There was a question from Mr Otten: when does the Minister think that the analyses on over-mortality are ready? The first results of the excess mortality study carried out by RIVM and CBS are expected shortly, at the end of June of this year. In addition, other scientists are also researching the same issue of over-death mortality. They are expected to deliver results in the second half of 2022. So within a month, or more than six months, you will see these results. Then Mrs Baay asked how much action has been taken on the call for a repeat shot. She asked that question in an earlier round, but I had to remain guilty of the answer. An additional question was how many hospitalizations this prevented. It's always nice when you peel it off in vaccination numbers. If we look at the first booster vaccination, so we see that almost 90% of the 70-plussers and 80% of the 60- to 69-year-olds who have reached it. So that was the shot we started with in the fall of last year. For this year's repeat shot, the percentage is much lower: more than 50% of all 70-plussers and more than 25% of the 60- 69-year-olds. However, I would like to make the point that not everyone is eligible for the repetition. For example, people who have recently experienced an infection, or people who didn't get the booster shot immediately, but a while later, are not eligible. In the latter case, the time limit will be postponed, since the repeat prick is only eligible three months after the booster prick. Let me now look at the persons who are eligible for the repetition. Of those eligible, 67% of the 70-plussers received a repeat prick. So we're talking about the fourth shot. So first two base pricks, then a booster in the fall and then the repeat prick. For the 60-plussers eligible for the repeat puncture, the net is below 40%. I just indicated that it's much lower, but the exact numbers I didn't dare give you out of my head. The effect of the repeat pricks on hospital admissions is not exactly clear at the moment. It's too early; I don't have that data yet. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u228	Thank you, Minister. I'll see if there's any interruptions. Mr. Janssen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u229	Let me make a brief comment. The Minister stated in his reply that I would have asked for ic capacity when providing information. I didn't specifically ask about that. That may have been a bit of a free translation in the reply given to the Minister. I did ask for something else. We see more Wob requests from which publications arise, we see research from the OVV and more research from the OVV. We can no longer change what has happened, but my appeal to this minister was to ensure that we are not surprised by images that are outlined in reports or publications following Wob requests about the period when the minister is in office and which give a different picture than what has been reported to Parliament. I say it very infamous and very diplomatic, but very flatteringly I say the same thing that I always said to my staff when I was a director myself: I don't want to be surprised by things that I didn't report myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u230	I could just as easily answer you like that. The same applies to me; let me make that very clear. However, you must realise that the number of documents to be assessed by the Wob alone at VWS concerns a total of 8 million documents. A team has been set up at VWS. That started with 4 lawyers, but there are now 100 lawyers, just for the Wob. Just like you, if that was the case, I kept asking, "Can I have an excerpt?" But every time the answer was: Minister, there is no beginning, because the sets go out with tens of thousands of documents at the same time. What you and I see in the press is allowed, of course, so works that it is that pieces are taken out of it and that a story is made of it that is on the front... If another batch of 40,000 documents goes out, I can't inform you in time where there's potentially something that's going to be taken out. You didn't ask me about the ICU directly, but you mentioned it and passed the last week. Wasn't that the case? Excuse me, someone else asked. But it is a nice illustration of one such point that is extracted from somewhere. A few pieces are then tied together, of which a story is made. I happen to know this story, because I was in a different role back then, in the middle of that discussion, so I know about the hat and the edge. I thought, "Wait a minute, because if you make the whole story, what's left of that story?" So could it be that it's nothing at all? So I'm afraid I can't guarantee you any surprises. With these numbers, assume that over the next few months, the next year, the next few years, we will be getting something in an app message. App messages alone are all about... Well, yeah. So can you get something out of it: that official sent that app, and you see, it's read that...? I can't help you. I've been left out of it myself: 8 million documents. Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u231	Thank you for the answers, Minister, but my question was not so much about the past. That's what I've been trying to tell you. That's what's happened, what's all being figured out now and what's coming from two years of hectic. I understand all that, but it's the present that matters to me. So it was actually more of an appeal to this minister, let me put it this way. I know what it's like to be in charge of research at the Security Research Council. I know what it's like if you've been an environmental deputy and what's being requested when it comes to environmental records, reports, etc. So I know what can be taken out of it. However, I should like to call on this Minister to ensure that the images drawn by the Minister will not be brought out with a different picture, for example through the Security Research Council. Well, let me just say that. Wob-messages is another story, but it's mainly about... This also applies to the OVV, because that is not an organisation that we can say: we have to look at what they do to each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u232	I am sorry to repeat the answer, but I think it is a very important and right point. I think that we should realise the following here. At least I realize that. This does not specifically relate to the OVV, but to the way in which reports, especially in the press, are now being produced, with the request of so many documents: I want all the documents on... Of course it should be. But then pulling pieces out of that doesn't always get the whole story. I don't want to say that it happens knowingly. Then there's a message coming up. I can't do it for my predecessor... I'm responsible. But I can't do it in the present period either. I don't check every app message, email or anything that an employee of my department sends out. I'm responsible for it. But especially with the way in which coverage now and then goes, when you don't even have the opportunity to make a complete answer to that... I think last week's case is a very nice case. That's exactly what he's saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u233	Finally, Mr. Janssen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u234	Finally, Mr President. No one will ask of this minister the impossible. All we are asking for is maximum transparency.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u235	Absolutely. But that's what I'm committed to. That's where we find each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u236	I would like to say, with the Open Government Act coming up now, that transparency, get used to it. That'll be more rule than exception. But my question is about something else. I have heard the Minister reply to my questions about the European Union's commitment, the European Commission's strategy, we have heard various scenarios being outlined, and the World Health Organization, the WHO. The Minister says that this organisation is very important, because it is very important for sharing data on infectious diseases and so on. But I have not yet had an answer to my question about the fact that the Dutch cabinet is committed to binding agreements in the WTO Treaty, which means that the WTO can also take immediate action vis-à-vis the Member States. So I would like to hear from the Minister what is happening with these binding agreements and why the cabinet is using them.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u237	Mr Van Hattem translates the binding agreements, and he did so earlier in the first term, as if the WHO could say at some point: now the restaurants in the Netherlands have to close at 9 p.m. [[Sentence could not be parsed: Of: nu moet iedereen in de metro in Amsterdam een mondkapje op en bovendien 1,5 meter afstand houden.]] Or: there should not be more than two people in the waiting room at a general practitioner's average speaking time at the same time. I deliberately mention a number of examples of which, when you hear them, you think: yes, but that is ridicul? Yeah, that's ridicul. That is not going to happen either, and that is not the binding agreement either. Binding agreements are, for example, the agreements you make with each other in order to inform each other in good time and in the best possible way, for example about the emergence of new infections, new variants and so on. That's what you make binding agreements about. We have seen in the past that this does not always happen well. That also means that at certain times there was too late acting. It is very important that we have binding agreements on this worldwide, and the party to do so is the World Health Organisation. I am glad that the United States is back on board under their new government.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u238	I don't think that's entirely convincing. Questions have also been asked about this in the Lower House. That is precisely when this Minister gave a very open answer. He said that it was not yet possible to say exactly what would be used and whether there was a risk that the sovereignty of the Netherlands could be called into question when taking measures. It was said that we are focusing on binding agreements. So our sovereignty may still be at risk with this agreement. Then perhaps it is not the exact closing time of a restaurant or the number of people in a waiting room, but perhaps it is the use of such a European digital corona certificate or other multinational measures. That was also a point in the questions about the European Commission. The Minister says that there are agreements on cross-border matters, but the European Commission is interfering in its strategy with all kinds of matters that are internal matters. That is why once again the point: can the Minister state what is the position with regard to matters which affect our national sovereignty and which may be dealt with in the further negotiations on the WTO Treaty?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u239	Mr. Chairman. Now, with respect for Mr Van Hattem, we're going to disperse a little bit of everything. We have the WHO. We have the European Union and the European Commission. Within the WHO we have... I have mentioned examples of issues on which you would like to have binding agreements, which we also consider very important from the Netherlands. Within Europe we have a number of other things. To begin with, we have a digital corona certificate, which says nothing about using or not using corona admissions in an individual country. Each country is autonomous in whether it wants to use it and, if so, where. However, it has been agreed that if you use it, a citizen from another European country with the same tool, the same app, the same QR code, albeit the international version, should have the same access to those facilities in that country for which that corona ticket is used. That doesn't mean the country has to use it. That's what that country really is about. But it does say that, if a foreign country uses it, a Dutch visitor, a Dutch tourist... If a corona ticket is used in Portugal, the Dutch tourist does not need to download and fill out a form on a Portuguese website of the Portuguese Tourist Office or the Portuguese Ministry of Foreign Affairs or anything else. Then there is just a tool, with which you can automatically use your Dutch proof of recovery or your Dutch vaccination certificate directly. That's what controls that digital corona certificate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u240	Mr Van Hattem, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u241	Maybe I made it a little too easy for the minister to bring in that digital corona certificate. Indeed, I have not yet heard in his reply what is really the essence of my question, namely what is going to be regulated at the WTO, making binding agreements which the Minister clearly says "that national sovereignty is not such a message to us. On the contrary, we are committed to binding international agreements, whereby the Netherlands is bound by them and where the WTO can prescribe certain things." It remains to be seen whether this is only about the exchange of data. It could be on many more fronts, because that is still under negotiation. My question is why the Minister wants to impose binding agreements on the Netherlands through the WTO.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u242	The Minister, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u243	Without repeating itself, I would just like to say that a pandemic such as we have now had with covid is an international matter. It is impossible, even for countries that have very hermetically closed borders, to keep such a virus out of the door. You can see the examples of this internationally again. That means working together internationally to tackle such a pandemic and to provide information. Within Europe there is a gremium for that. Internationally, the WHO is the ideal forum for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u244	Thank you, Minister. We are now at the second term of office. I give the floor to Mrs De Boer on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u245	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Let me begin my term with a comment to Mr Van Hattem. I do not know if he sees it as reassuring, but a treaty is something that has to go through Parliament. The Minister can't do that on our behalf. Anyway, now my second term. I'd like to start with the following. Some speakers have suggested that I should have said that, as far as we are concerned, the conditions laid down in the De Boer motion were met in the sixth extension. I didn't say that. I have said that the Minister has undoubtedly taken steps on this front to meet those conditions. But I also said that for us, unlike, for example, D66, the question that is at the heart of the debate is not whether that motion has been complied with, but that the question is whether there is a need for a temporary law at all. We have answered that question with no at first reading. I do not now hear that necessity in the Minister's answers either. It states that there is no need for action now, but that there could be a situation in which measures are needed again and that a legal basis is then needed. So that is not the criterion that is now necessary. This confirms, as far as we are concerned, that the need is now lacking. I have also said that, as far as my group is concerned, if the need arises, that legal basis will have to be restored in the future. Then the question is, what is? In the answers, the Minister seems to say that if the extension of the Twm is not approved today, the only option is the emergency regulation through the security regions. I'd like to contradict that. We and several parties have said that if fundamental rights are again needed, we believe there are three options. In the event of extreme urgency, you may have to resort to those emergency regulations and the security regions, but a new legal basis in a new Twm is quite an option that I think should be implemented within a few weeks if possible. The third option is, of course, to speed up the process of regular legislation. I hope the Minister can confirm that he sees these three options, once again I am confident that, should the necessity arise, this Chamber will help to create the right legal basis. So far. You will understand that I will advise my group to vote against the adoption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u246	Thank you, Mrs De Boer. I call Mr Janssen on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u247	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for the answers he has given. I started my contribution in the first term by saying that fundamental rights belong in a safe and not in a toolbox, with the key to that safe in parliament. The restriction of fundamental rights must never be allowed to get used to. It must be that stone in the shoe that causes discomfort at every step. You need to be reminded permanently that you also want to get rid of it. In any case, my group's feeling is that this inconvenience, that part of the shoe, has become a little less and less acute with each extension. That's not how it should be. As far as my group is concerned, we have to go back to the initial inconvenience of new measures restricting fundamental rights. I repeat once again that I do not rule out the need for new measures, but we can take them with the knowledge and experience of what we have now gained. We don't have to reinvent everything anymore. It is a new beginning in which we are therefore temporarily being truly temporary and where the decisive control of Parliament is well regulated. In the Minister's letter of 4 May, in which he looked forward to the adaptation of the Wpg in the first tranche, he said that effective measures would only be allowed under ministerial arrangements with the involvement of Parliament. Somewhere else it is about 'decisions', but I think that Parliament's involvement is really too vague. So I would like to give the Minister two things in the run-up to 1 September. Firstly, I repeat my appeal to other ministers in previous debates, namely that Parliament is composed of the Second and First Chambers. So only write "Parliament" if you actually mean the Second and First Chambers. We have seen too many times that it says: there is a possibility for the House of Representatives to do something, so Parliament is in the process of doing so. No, then at best part of the parliament is in play. Parliament is therefore the Second and First Chambers. The Lower House is the Lower House and the Upper House is the Upper House. I am asking for purity on this point, because I have given several examples of this in the previous debate. So I ask the Minister to be clear about that. Involvement, as I said, is too non-binding for my group if it does not involve control. I'm sure I'd like to give that to the Minister on September 1st. Mr. Chairman. Here's what I'm gonna do. If tonight the Twm ceases to exist, it will not stop the possible need for action. On the basis of existing instruments and, where necessary, on the basis of temporary emergency legislation, the necessary measures will have to be taken. Let there be no misunderstanding about that. But this Temporary Law measures covid-19 will today, as far as my group is concerned, have the status that the law currently deserves: temporary and finite. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u248	Thank you, Mr. Janssen. I call Mr Otten on behalf of the Otten Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u249	Mr. Chairman. "Polder model seeks virus," that's how I started my first term. The polder model is still searching, we can conclude after the debate today with Minister Kuipers. We still had and still have high expectations from this minister. Personally, I was rather shocked to learn that he had initially lost more than 80% of his time managing legislative processes and all kinds of consultation and coordination with a whole range of consultative bodies. We therefore call on the Minister to weed this byzantine jungle to increase the effectiveness of the policy and, where necessary, to put better people in key positions. Mr. Chairman. The Minister acknowledges the need for an integrated approach to the problems of care. That's what we think. Think of better remuneration for care workers, but also tax reform to maintain disposable income in care and also for others, less polder and more clearly investing responsibilities with regard to who does what and especially who does not what. Temporary measures take the longest. That fate also threatened with the Temporary Law measures covid-19, at least if it were up to the minister. Today, as the First Chamber, let us permanently deposit this disproportionate temporary law in the trash. That's where he belongs. We believe that this is a first step to channel the enormous tensions that have arisen in society during the corona crisis. Those tensions are there, no matter what you think. We will vote against the extension of the temporary law, the fifth extension again, and call on everyone in this First Chamber to do the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u250	Thank you, Mr. Otten. I call Mr Van Hattem on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u251	Thank you, Mr President, and thank you to the Minister for replying in the first term. Nevertheless, I still have the necessary questions to ask in this second period. First of all, I can agree with what the previous speaker said. It is high time to waste this temporary law for good and put an end to this far too far-reaching restriction of fundamental rights without an acute need for it. Nevertheless, as I indicated in the first term, there are already some Trojan horses lurking and the swords are already sharpened in order to be able to impose all kinds of measures on us. I have just talked about the WTO agreement that is already under negotiation. Mrs De Boer van GroenLinks just said: we are, of course, still there to ratify it or not. But the practice is that once such a treaty is completely in place, it rarely happens that a majority here will reject it. Then it often goes along in the big flow. So you can only get there early enough to prevent our national sovereignty being squandered on multilateral organisations without having to say anything about it later. Because, of course, this goes a step further and we do not yet know what measures are going to be taken. I would indeed like to maintain my motion on this, because it will be very much needed. I was also shocked by the naivety shown by the Minister on this point. He says that China's role within the WTO is similar to that of other countries. Well, that's totally disgusted in all possible articles, investigations and reports over the past two years. The simple fact alone that Taiwan, a country which has a very strong corona strategy itself, cannot talk about this WTO agreement because it is too sensitive to communist China, the communist dictatorship China, which severely suppresses its own population with so-called corona measures, says enough. I hear the Minister say that the role is similar to other countries. Several other major countries, including the current Biden government in the US, have recognised that China's influence within the WHO is unhealthy. You should not bake sweet sandwiches with them and certainly not surrender your national sovereignty to them.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u252	I am listening with increasing amazement to Mr Van Hattem's speech. I sometimes wonder if I live in a whole different world. In any case, when I look at the medical world and how it appreciates the WHO, it is not in proportion to what Mr Van Hattem is saying. At least in the medical world, the thoughts are that the WHO has contributed enormously to the health of the entire world population, including the Netherlands, over the past decades, and that we are extremely proud and happy that such an institute helps the medical world to further improve health status. So I would ask Mr Van Hattem whether that perspective on the WTO also exists as far as he is concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u253	Look, these multinational organizations often have two faces. Such a WHO is indeed involved in information sharing and that sort of thing that is very useful in itself, but in the meantime such an organisation is also a very political club. At international political level, there are very important roles and interests. Those are the two faces that such an organization has. In any case, you can see it in the UN organisations, whether it is the UN UNESCO organisation or what is called the Israeli-Palestinian conflict that comes around the corner. They all do useful things for the conservation of monuments, other things, traditions and so on. But in such conflicts they really play a very heavy political role. And with a UN organisation like the WHO, that's not much different. This is mainly due to China's involvement, where the controls in Wuhan, in the laboratory where everything probably went horribly wrong about the outbreak of the virus, were not transparent, but where the WHO lashes back and China's interests are far too great.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u254	Thank you. I call Mr Van der Voort.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u255	I am therefore very pleased to note that Mr Van Hattem, too, sees that the WTO has very good points, and that the WHO is also an indispensable organisation in the field of health care.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u256	Mr President, as you will understand, I do not want to be silenced by Mr Van der Voort. I am not saying that the WTO is indispensable. The WTO's tasks can also be carried out by other organisations and in a different way, rather than by such a rather politically coloured UN organisation. In any case, we should not sacrifice our national sovereignty to such multinational organisations, not to the UN, not to the WHO and certainly not to the European Commission. I also asked a question about this. I asked the Minister what he thought of these scenarios of the European Commission. And to what extent are they linked to the policy the Minister is developing? Because, of course, he has also set out different scenarios. Is there a overlap in that? The Minister has made it very clear that these are cross-border issues. But the EU is clearly interfering with all kinds of domestic affairs that it simply has nothing to do with. That is why I have called for the European Commission to return to its Brussels loft, where it belongs. And it would be even better if we had nothing to do with that Brussels loft anymore, but that is another discussion. I asked another question about the role of health insurers. What are the possibilities, perhaps, for the next year's negotiations between the Minister and the health insurers? Could health insurers perhaps do more in terms of funding, quality targets, etc., to get the capacity in place throughout the healthcare chain? The Minister says that we are going to put a lot of things in the regions and support people at home in care. But of course that is going to be a lot of questions from, for example, general practitioners. Because if you let people sit at home, a large part of the care comes back on the board of the general practitioners. Is that sufficiently taken into account? And don't you have another conflict between, for example, the general practitioner's organisation and the health insurance companies? Could the Minister perhaps clarify this, because this is something that is going to play in the near future? If we wait until the debate on 5 July, this negotiation is probably already at an advanced stage. I have asked about the control possibilities for the municipal councils. The Minister uses that to screen his letter. Under the current Temporary Law measures covid-19, the control possibilities of municipal councils would be better than before. But all the measures were announced nationally at press conferences and introduced at national level. So can the Minister make it clear what additional control possibilities the municipal councils have had in practice? I'm a city councilman myself. That's another function of mine. In that role I have not noticed much of these additional control possibilities. Finally, I would like to table another motion in the second term. With that motion, we want to prevent a new basis for the corona admission certificate in the Public Health Act. The: Mr Van Hattem, Mr Bezaan, Mr Ton van Kesteren, Mr Faber-Van de Klashorst and Mr Van Strien proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that in the course of the debate the VWS Minister indicated that the use of corona tickets would not be excluded in the future;]] [[Whereas the Minister is now preparing the first instalment of the Public Health Act and intends to submit it for consultation at the beginning of June;]] [[instructs the Cabinet not to include in the amendment of the Wpg any basis for a possible deployment of the Ctb,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-D]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u257	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So much for my contribution in this second term. I hope that the groups in this Chamber will take the floor and vote against the extension of this temporary law. At least the PVV will vote against. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u258	Thank you, Mr. Van Hattem. I call Mr Recourt. He speaks on behalf of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u259	The previous speaker made the choice difficult. Mr. Chairman. It is clear that when we were attacked by the COVID-19 virus in 2020, legislation was not in order. This legislation has been partially repaired by the temporary law we are talking about. That law was temporary because we felt that those measures should not remain over the market for longer than was necessary, or should not remain in the basket, the government's toolbox than was necessary. My group still thinks so. There is no concrete threat at the moment. This is the analysis we made this morning. This afternoon I listened in particular to the Minister's reply, which was a good answer, for which I thank him with the question in mind: what if that worst case scenario is realized? Are there gonna be major accidents? This would make the situation possible differently. But the answer is no. Is it most efficient to maintain the Twm? Yeah, also in that sausage case scenario. Then the easiest way to implement measures is to re-implement them. But is it impossible to implement that measure when the Twm is gone? No. It's getting a lot harder; that's right. However, the impact and the balance of interests is such that we say: if that worst case scenario is realized. You know it never.. is at this point nevertheless the consideration that we now choose not to extend the Twm. The acute need is not there. There are alternatives. That makes it justified to vote against the extension of the law now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u260	Thanks to Mr. Recourt. I call Mr Van Dijk on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u261	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A brief contribution on my part. I'll confine myself to the Twm. I thank the Minister for his passionate response. He fought bravely for the extension of the Twm. However, this was not convincing with regard to the SGP. Temporary is temporary. This applies once again now that we are dealing with government powers that are potentially very far-reaching. Then the bar must be high when it comes to proportionality and necessity. In addition, in the realization that muscular powers work as nicotine for drivers. Once granted government power has an unintentional addictive effect. In today's subtly threatening tone phrase "yes, but just in case," I spontaneously think of a familiar Lousy spell: I always have a knife in my bag in case there is cake. Of course, that can be the case. In any case, the SGP will not accept either a fifth or a sixth extension. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u262	Thank you, Mr. Van Dijk. Then the floor is for Mrs Prins to speak on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u263	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for the comprehensive answer to the questions. The Minister's reaction has made it clear to us that there has been a change in the approach to the legal bases for, if necessary, far-reaching measures to contain covid contamination. The ambition was first a very extensive extension of the Public Health Act for full pandemic preparedness for infectious diseases. Now it has become a phased approach, first and foremost only for the bases of competence for collective action. We are now more than clear about this. Thank you for that. The response of the Minister has strengthened us as a CDA group in our view that we would rather extend the Temporary Law measures covid-19 rather than fall back on emergency measures with instructions to presidents of security regions and thus without any democratic legitimacy. Just as the Wpg is now 'in case', we believe that this also applies to the Twm. In view of the uncertain situation surrounding the distribution of covid variants, we are therefore committed to having clear legal bases available over the coming months, while guaranteeing parliamentary involvement. It is precisely in the light of legal hygiene and democratic legitimacy that we come to this decision, all the more so since we have our doubts about the urgency of the matter in order to be able to deal with it quickly and carefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u264	I hear Mrs Prins from the CDA say that there is no democratic legitimacy in falling back on the security regions. Now I had some comments earlier on the Council of State's approach to a proposal. In doing so, I was accused of not being allowed to state that there was no democratic legitimacy there. But does Mrs Prins also think that there is no democratic legitimacy in the security regions, as they are simply established by the Security Regions Act? For example, Mr Bruls was not appointed as chairman of the security region and of the Security Council with democratic legitimacy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u265	I must say, I have some difficulty with your comparison. I don't quite understand it either, so I can't give you a good answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u266	This is what I'm talking about. I think that Mrs Prins has a point in herself: there is no democratic control in these security regions. However, there is so much opposition here to criticizing the lack of democratic legitimacy in a particular idea that is put forward by the Council of State, but it is simply accepted here that the same is said about the security regions. Is it not the case for Mrs Prins that the same criticism of the Council of State as of the security regions should be possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u267	First of all, I think it was the President who said something about this and did not come from the Chamber. I'd like to leave that with the chairman, too. I do like to join; let that be clear as well. But it's not something we've said. Secondly, I did not say that it was not democratically secured in the security regions. I said that there was no democratic legitimacy at the time of an emergency measure and an indication. There's a difference.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u268	Finally, Mr. Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u269	That is exactly the point I made with certain legislative initiatives that are actually posted from the Council of State. I just wanted to say that here, because a point was made from the Chamber by Mr Verkerk of the Christian Union. That is where the Council of State moves in an area where it should not go: taking the initiative on legislative proposals. That's the point I wanted to make. If we are talking about democratic legitimacy, then both the security regions and the Council of State must be able to accept that criticism.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u270	Let me say that those are your words and I do not automatically agree with them, quite the contrary. I'd like to continue, Mr. Chairman. In the context of good or good We have noted that different activities and arrangements have already been made within the various sectors. We are, of course, positive about this. However, we still have some questions, especially in view of the possible threat posed by the new variant. Are we considering giving more attention to the new booster vaccination of the 60-plussers? The percentage was still quite limited, so is it not wise and do you not consider using more energy? The same applies to the benefits of vaccination for people living in disadvantaged areas who we know are still too low. I ask that all the more so in view of your fervent plea for vaccination. One last question. If it turns out that in some sectors it is not possible to reach agreements, in part, that, in part, the Minister does not take action? That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u271	Thank you, Mrs. Prince. I call Mr Nicolaï on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u272	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It has already been said by other groups: the temporary law can now finally go into the trash. As a group, we were against the third and fourth extensions, and are now against the fifth and sixth. And if I understood correctly, there would even be a seventh extension. That's bizarre, constitutionally speaking. That is bizarre from the fundamental protection of fundamental rights. For a reason, I have used the words 'legal hygiene' to indicate that we really need to scratch behind the ears there. I also referred to the explanatory statement from when that law came into being, which clearly stated that there was a finiteness. It has also been indicated that that end would be there when that immediate threat was no longer there. That is the case today. I therefore call on everyone not to stand up again for the extension of this temporary law. Is that so dangerous? Mr Recourt mentioned the worst case scenario. The Council of State, to which the Minister referred, is talking about potentially serious consequences that could occur and that it would be irresponsible not to have that temporary law now. The RvS indicated that a legal basis would not be available. I do not understand why the Council of State says that, because that legal basis for intervention is in fact available: these are the emergency regulations. That's one. Then there is the second point. Mrs. Prins mentioned an emergency bill. How all that would work had to be looked at. But in fact, there's just a text, that of the current law. That is also what Mrs De Boer has said. In an emergency, you can just use that text. You can use the explanation. Then you can quickly arrive at a good legal basis to regain the powers. Mr. Chairman. I do not understand one thing about the Minister's reasoning. He says we now have a stripped-down version. I heard him literally say that. That means that a lot of powers that have ever been in the serious situation have not been updated at the moment. But if that worst case scenario happens suddenly, then if it really is a sausage case, then the Minister will have to resort to emergency regulations for those cases for which those powers are currently undressed. Can the Minister explain to me once again why it is so important to continue with this proposal, this temporary law, while it is undressed? His story is that we have to be prepared for a worst-case scenario, but in a worst-case scenario, he has nothing to do with a stripped-down law. Mr. Chairman. Finally, the future. Mr Janssen has already asked for it, but I would like to get a clear answer from the Minister, also from our group. The letter of 4 May refers to the contours to be observed in the first tranche. Reference has also been made to the possible application of what is currently happening in the existing emergency legislation. I quote: 'There is also a procedure whereby Parliament can take a binding decision on the continuation of implementation'. That's what it says in his letter. Can I, as a group of the Minister, understand that he says that there is going to be a binding decision, not just a simple commitment but a binding decision? If we are talking about a binding decision by Parliament, is it true that Mr Janssen has also pointed out that this is a matter of the First and Second Chambers? Because that is also the case in the emergency legislation. Thank you. I look forward to the Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u273	Thank you, Mr. Nicolaï. Mrs Baay-Timmerman has the floor on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u274	Mr. Chairman. In fact, I had indicated in the first period that I would refrain from making a contribution in the second period, but I shall come back to that. Thank you to the Minister for his reply. He clearly explained why he opted for the fifth extension of the Twm and explained his reasons. Mr. Chairman. I have a question for the Minister. Would it be possible, in his view, to present a bill, in his words "a first tranche of the Wpg," to the First Chamber before the summer recess? Of course, in the expectation that the Lower House will deal with such a bill adequately and quickly and he will refrain from the consultation round. Does the Minister think this is feasible? Or is a consultation round a sine qua non, an absolute condition for such a first instalment? Finally, Mr President. The turnout and setting at the second booster, the so-called fourth vaccination, are significantly lower compared to the turnout at the first booster for both the 70-plussers and the 60-plussers, according to the percentages you have just provided. That concerns my group. Mrs. Prins has been talking about that for a while. I hope, but that is perhaps more for the broad co-vid debate, that the Minister intends to give further attention to the information to the public about the operation of boosters, vaccinations, when this is again necessary in the autumn and winter periods that are about to begin. Perhaps the Minister will be able to say a few words about this very briefly. Mr. Chairman. My advice to my group on the fifth extension of the Twm has remained unchanged.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u275	Thank you, Mrs Baay. I call Mrs De Bruijn-Wezeman on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u276	Thank you, Mr President. When I heard a few colleagues today, it seemed as if they wanted at least to suggest that the restrictive measures contained in the toolbox are still being applied today, and that this is a disgrace. Given the current state of the pandemic, it would indeed be a disgrace if those measures were actually applied. Then that was right; it would indeed be an abuse of power. But this is an incorrect representation of reality. This Minister has made every effort to set out measures as soon as they were no longer of added value in combating the pandemic. Has he not shown that he does not wish to make improper use of his powers? This is a rhetorical question, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman. The VVD Group feels responsible for not allowing legal embarrassment to arise as long as the revision of the Wpg has not been adopted for the measures to combat outbreaks of infectious diseases. My group made a different assessment of what is needed in the event of a revival of the pandemic, because then we have to come up with emergency legislation. The question is whether we will be on time and whether, because of the legal principles in this Chamber, we should take unnecessary risks with the health of Dutch people. Mr. Chairman. The VVD fraction isn't gonna throw away old shoes until there's new ones. The VVD Group will therefore vote in favour of extending the Twm. I would like to thank the Minister for the answers given and for his commitment to inform us in the June letter about the use of a balancing framework for a balancing of interests for the use of a corona access card versus, for example, a lockdown or partial closures of sectors. This is also true in the event that this would be the case again. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u277	At the beginning of Mrs De Bruijn's speech I had to think of a lesson in my studies. In my view, the honourable Member began the deception of the stroman, which is to combat something that is not at all stated. I have not heard any party say that measures are still in place at the moment, other than the duty of mouth cap at the airport, for another two weeks. So can you tell which party suggested this?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u278	I have been signing this up during the debate this morning. Maybe you should read the Acts together for a while. I also said at one point during the interruptions that I believe that everyone is talking about measures, while the law is making these measures possible. That has been said by several spokesmen. Again, that is how the debate has come to me today; that is an observation I have made. There has been a lot of talk of 'these measures', 'fundamental violation' and that sort of thing, whereas it is simply not the case at the moment. These measures are not being taken, because the state of the pandemic also allows us not to do so. You yourself said you were afraid of abuse of power. I would just like to say that I see that this Minister, from the moment he took office, has done a great deal of work to make the following assessment: I do not think that the measure is proportionate at the moment, so I will abolish it. That is precisely what Twm is meant for, to be able to scale up and scale down measures. And I notice that that's just what happened. That is why I am confident that this Minister would not make improper use of the resources he has.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u279	Thank you. I call Mr Van der Voort on behalf of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u280	Mr. Chairman. We thank the Minister for his answers to the questions we have asked. We have also listened carefully to others and to the answers to the questions asked by others. In our final weighing, a number of factors play a role. Firstly, if the Twm is not renewed, there is no longer any control over this Chamber, because emergency regulations are not assessed by this Chamber, not ex ante or ex post. I would like to hear confirmation of this argument by the Minister. And if so, then this Chamber loses control that it does now. It may not be optimally regulated now, but that control will remain with the extension of the Twm. This is an argument for our group to continue the Twm. Mr. Chairman. We are wondering whether, if urgent legislation is to come, the First Chamber will have control over that. Can the Minister clarify that? Will the Minister make use of emergency regulations or emergency legislation? Control has always been an important point for this Chamber. It is therefore, in a sense, illogical to give them away now. At the same time, it is ironic that pre-control, which applies for the first time to the sixth extension, is deprived of us by ourselves if we do not approve the fifth extension.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u281	I heard Mr Van der Voort say that we here, this Chamber, are losing control of the measures. What do we lose control of?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u282	In my opinion, we have arranged here, every three months, an approval law with which we have control and we are now given prior control over the KB for a new extension. I would now like to check with the Minister whether it is true that we will lose that control if we go back to emergency regulations. Or does Mr. Nicolaï see it differently?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u283	In my view, these emergency regulations are not going to work for three months. In those three months, you've had a good law for a long time. I thought for a moment that Mr Van der Voort meant that we as the First Chamber had control over whether or not to take the measures. We don't have that kind of say.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u284	I agree with Mr Nicolaï that we have no control over the ministerial arrangements. That's right. But we do have that on the extension of the Twm.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u285	Please continue your speech. Oh, Mr. Otten.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u286	I was reminded of Mr Recourt's stromand reasoning. The paradox is that if we vote against this extension and get rid of this law, we will actually have more control, because the cabinet will then have to come up with new measures. If Mr Van der Voort wants to have more say in the First Chamber, I really recommend that he vote against it later.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u287	I put this question to the Minister in my speech to clarify this. I see Mr Otten's point that we are getting more control, not right now. I am therefore very interested in the answer given by the Minister to these questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u288	About that control. What if there is a situation in which emergency regulations are being applied? If, as we saw at the beginning of 2020, these are out-of-the-box emergency regulations that were proclaimed by Article 39 of the Security Regions Act, then there is no control at all. Afterwards, any city council can call the chairman of a security region to account. So it's not like there's gonna be a complete vacuum when this Twm goes down. How does Mr Van der Voort view this?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u289	I was talking about the authority of this Chamber and not that of other bodies or organizations.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u290	But the power of this Chamber is also very limited. Now we can give the general framework within the meaning of the temporary law, in order to extend it or not to extend it, but we also have no control over the implementation of the measures laid down in that law. If certain measures are being implemented, then at least we cannot direct them directly. Does Mr van der Voort see that the argument that there is no democratic control at all does not apply to emergency regulations at all? It is a complex road, but at least there is a possibility of using it if it is necessary. So there's no vacuum.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u291	In my opinion, I have said: the authority of this Chamber. In my view it is still so, but I await the Minister's reply that we will no longer have it if the Twm no longer exists.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u292	Finally, Mr. Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u293	But that is not a control over the concrete use of measures. We don't have it now, and we don't have it if we maintain this unnecessary law any longer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u294	We have no control over the ministerial arrangements. We do have control over an extension of the Twm.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u295	I think this is an interesting piece of debate to present to a debate institute, to see what kind of deceptions are in this. I do have a serious question for Mr Van der Voort. It seems as if he is saying: if we do not extend the law now, we will lose our say. But if that control only means that we vote for a law to regain control next time, it's a kind of snake that bites its own tail. It is precisely when we deny that approval that we use our control. Do I see that wrong or can Mr Van der Voort agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u296	I understand Mrs De Boer very well. All I'm saying is we're losing control. I do not want to say that that must be the only argument for continuing an extension. But I would just like to mention and remind you that we have lost the control, which we have attached so much value to over the past two years and have spent so many words on. We need to realize that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u297	You can continue your argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u298	The second point in our consideration is whether the cabinet will intervene in good time if there is no longer a Twm. The Council of State considers the likelihood of this not happening in good time to be significant. Our group believes that this is a serious problem. Timeliness has been an issue in the coronapandemic response. The government has a responsibility to the citizens, but we, as part of the parliament, have the same responsibility. And not only a responsibility to the citizens, but also to the healthcare sector. Timely intervention is an important way to keep control and keep it workable for care. Finally, this is our third argument: 'The De Boer motion, which was supported by the D66 Group at the time, has been met in our weighting.' We believe that this has removed important thresholds for voting in favour of the fifth and sixth extensions. Mr. Chairman. We would like to hear the answers to our remaining questions, as just formulated. If these are satisfactory, then the three arguments put forward together by the D66 Group are decisive in the consideration of voting in favour of the legislative proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u299	My question is aimed at undermining at least one of those arguments. I think that's a good idea. I hear Mr van der Voort say: the Council of State has said that it is irresponsible, because then you cannot take measures in good time. We see that the law as indicated here is completely undressed. There are only a few powers left. Now there's going to be a worst case scenario. Can Mr Van der Voort then indicate how we can deal with this law in good time? Or does he see, like me, that emergency regulations are still needed?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u300	I agree with Mr Nicolaï that the measures remaining in the sixth extension are of a general nature and are likely to be insufficient in such a worst case scenario. However, if the general measures are taken in good time at the beginning of a new uplift, they will save important time, which will also allow for new measures to be taken by the Parliament or by means of emergency regulations.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u301	Thank you. Mr Verkerk has the floor on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u302	Mr. Chairman. I would like to begin by thanking the Minister for his answers. The way he did that, I found it very pleasant, and especially if it was caringly also very knowledgeable. I think that one of the important points of discussion in this second period and in the evaluation is what is called legal hygiene. Thank you for teaching me another term. We actually have two options. First of all... We continue with the continuation of the Twm. I agree that it is not charming that that law has been in force for about 15 months, but that is a reality. That's behind us, so there's nothing we can do about it. Anyway, then it's gonna have to be postponed for a few months, or we're gonna go with emergency laws and emergency laws. That second option is an honest reality; let me be quite honest with you. I must admit, however, that when the first emergency laws came, not every Member was cheering and applauding. You also heard very quickly: where is the democratic control? The same was true of the emergency laws. How often was it not said when an emergency law was being discussed: as soon as the Minister can do it, it is not possible, because we must consider it very carefully. I must say quite frankly that in both cases I understand the votes against. We now have two options. One option is for three months, or four months tops, to extend a temporary law which I don't find charming, and the other option is that we're dealing with emergency laws or emergency laws. I must honestly say that our group prefers the disadvantage of the extension, also in view of all the questions and uncertainties surrounding the emergency laws and the emergency laws. It also strikes me that in the end there is very little attention in this Chamber to the judgment of the Council of State, which really speaks of significant objections if we do not allow the Twm to continue. The Council of State also says that the chance that the government will intervene too late is considerable. In this context, the Council of State uses the judgment "unresponsible'. Now we may disagree with the Council of State, despite its legal legitimacy, but I think this is an important judgment. Mr. Chairman. It is also important that we pay very close attention to the language we use. We talk about 'democratic legitimacy', but sometimes we confuse it with the way it is designed. So far, everything around corona has been democratically legitimized, through the Chambers. It is true that in the end, including by the Janssen motion, the power of the First Chamber has increased to judge a number of laws, especially in relation to fundamental rights. In retrospect, I think that was perhaps a nice adjustment and strengthening of that democratic legitimacy. I have one more point, that concerns the first tranche. When the European Court of Human Rights speaks of fundamental rights, there is a consistent line in its case law. In other words, it must be known, predictable and necessary in democratic society. As far as we are concerned, I think the Minister has really shown that there is a need not to deal too lightly with corona. However, I would like to make it clear that the government can react quickly to that first tranche, but that democratic control is necessary when it comes to setting up and releasing parts of the law. But as far as we're concerned, we can do that in the front or in the afterhang. I would also like to ask the Minister, when submitting this law, to make a careful argument as to why he would like to opt for a veil or a postage. I'd appreciate it if the Minister could promise us that. However, I would like to stress that some of my considerations on the basis of which I will advise my group to vote in favour are not practical arguments, but fundamental arguments on legal hygiene. I also understand the practical arguments, but for us this is the main line. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u303	I have waited a while to interrupt, but I would like to come back to the matter of the Council of State. Mr Verkerk outlined the situation that we could end up with emergency regulations and emergency legislation this summer. If that situation arises. We have seen today that there will be no new vaccination rounds. RIVM says it might happen in autumn, in autumn. Then we're in September. We hope it doesn't happen, but in autumn at least we'll be in late September. Then we could have had that amendment to the Public Health Act. Does Mr Verkerk agree with me that if there is no need for this summer, the scenario as he puts it does not need to be introduced?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u304	I totally agree: if nothing happens, then it is not necessary. I don't have a glass ball. The report of the WRR and the KNAW says: really anticipate this kind of thing. Our purpose is to do so, for example, in this way. I find this more legally pleasurable than by emergency regulations and laws.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u305	That's a trade-off. That's also a risk weighting. I also hear Mr Recourt making the assessment whether it is justified or not. That's not the law of Medes and Persians. We don't say it's gonna happen. That would be another consideration if we were talking about legal hygiene. Then you could say: we're sure this is going to happen, so we'll do it that way, because we don't think the other way is okay. But it is therefore a question of whether it is going to happen. And if it happens, what are we gonna do? But maybe that's where the difference lies, even if we look at the situation. Of course, I respect Mr Verkerk's choice, but this also goes a little bit into the question of principle argumentation versus instrumental argumentation, which I mentioned this afternoon. Mr Verkerk now says: it is more the argument of principle, of legal hygiene. This point has been used by several colleagues. I have the impression that this was also with different intentions. I'll leave it at that. I note, however, that we are making a different assessment of the opportunity and the measures that come with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u306	Let me respond briefly, Mr President, if I can. Of course, none of us know if it will happen in the summer. One thing is clear. All the virologists agree that covid is not gone and that other zoonoses can break out. We can't control it. I have voiced fundamental criticism of the phrase 'together we control corona'. As far as I am concerned, this fundamental criticism remains. That also means that we can't control it, despite the fact that our knowledge of these things is growing. We can't control it. Then I find the Minister's argument about the necessity somewhat more convincing than the argument of a number of colleagues who minimize that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u307	We do not minimize anything, at least I do not minimize anything, let me put it this way, if you mean to address me. But it is not, as the Council of State seems to suggest, that it is: the Twm or nothing. We are no longer being robbed and, as in the first period, we have to pull out all kinds of laws that have not been used for decades to suddenly use them for an acute situation. So we can now think carefully in advance about what would be the right way. The Ministry can prepare it. If this happens, we can do it, and that can happen quickly, with the lessons we have learned. Legally, therefore, it can be extremely hygienic.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u308	Finally, Mr. Verkerk.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u309	I said what I said. There are differences in trade-offs. And yet, in all honesty, I believe that we also have a number of experts behind our deliberations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u310	Thank you, Mr. Verkerk. Finally, Mrs Nanninga has the floor on behalf of the Nanninga Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u311	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for his answers on the criteria for applying the measures. Of course, it is quite clear to our group that this is not an exact science, that the criteria interact and that the virus is completely unpredictable, as I said myself. At present, however, the criteria are not or hardly applicable and the situation does not justify an extension. I hope it stays that way. And if not, we can take the appropriate measures with each other, by democratic means. We can do that as soon as possible. Maintaining the Temporary Law measures covid-19, with the Minister's argument that we need to prepare for the worst, is a bit like setting up a prison cell for every Dutchman. We hope that all 17,5 million Dutch people stay on the right track, but if they are going to break the law collectively, then we are only prepared for the worst. Isn't that right? But that's not how it works with fundamental rights. JA21 will vote against the extension. What we must and can prepare for the worst is in prevention and care. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u312	Thank you, Mrs Nanninga. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the second term? That is not the case. Minister, are you able to respond directly to the questions of the Chamber or would you like a suspension? I see you want a suspension. Then we'll suspend for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u313	Mr Van Hattem has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u314	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have a small order proposal. I am the only one who has tabled two motions for resolutions in this debate and the request is that, after the vote on the legislative proposal, these motions should be voted on this evening.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u315	That's an order proposal. Can the House agree to vote immediately after the vote on the legislative proposal on the motions? We're going to do some inventory, because I can see that not everyone agrees. I ask all the spokesmen to come forward for a moment per group and I ask the Registry to score. We will see if there is a majority in favour of the order proposal to vote directly tonight on Mr Van Hattem's two motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u316	No. My group would like to have a little more time to look at the motions, so please vote next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u317	So you're not in favour of this order proposal. That's noted.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u318	My group is not in favour of the order proposal either. We would like to discuss the motions in the group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u319	You're not for that. By the way, we can always suspend for a quarter of an hour before the vote for group meetings, right? I'll give you that. We always do.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u320	The SGP is always ready to vote, even within 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u321	So you're in favour of the order proposal. Support from the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u322	D66 sees no need for this, so we are not in favour of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u323	No support.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u324	I agree with Mr Van der Voort.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u325	So no support from the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u326	We are ready to vote, Mr President, as usual.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u327	I interpret that as support for the order proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u328	No support, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u329	No support.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u330	I'd like a vote next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u331	No support.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u332	Next week, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u333	No support for the order proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u334	Support for the order proposal, President.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u335	Support for the order proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u336	No support.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u337	No support for the order proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u338	Mr President, no support either. The argumentation is also important. We always have as a rule: voting the following week, unless it is essential for the assessment of the law itself. But I didn't hear that here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u339	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u340	Support the vote tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u341	Support. I'll take a look at the results of the vote. For 17 votes, 55 votes, so no support for the order proposal. The order proposal has been rejected. This means that the votes on the motions will be taken next week. We'll vote on the bill tonight, as we did before. The Minister for Health, Welfare and Sport has the floor for his second term. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u342	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In my introduction at the beginning of my first term, I outlined the current epidemiological situation, the situation in some other places worldwide, as well as the opportunities and risks for the coming period. I am not going to repeat that, but that has been the basis for the preparation of the fifth and also for the submission of a sixth temporary law. The sixth temporary act contains a strong adjustment of the number of measures to be taken. I'll get back to you on that in a minute. In this respect, I feel that this temporary law and a move towards a first instalment adjustment of the Wpg support from the Council of State, which has expressly stated that it is still important at this stage to have a legal framework, a coat rack in order to be able to take action if necessary. Of course, the verdict is entirely up to your Chamber. I have to deal with that. This brings me to Mrs De Boer's question about the three options for legislation when the Twm ceases to exist: in case of extreme emergency regulations, in case of urgent re-submission of the Twm, which, of course, requires urgent treatment, or as soon as possible to adapt the Wpg with a first tranche. The question to me was whether I agree with that. The answer is yes, I agree. The question asked by several of your MPs was whether the Minister could clarify the involvement of the two Chambers. In particular, it concerns the adjustment of the first tranche of the Wpg. This point is part of the decision-making process and subsequent discussion, so I cannot comment on it now. Then there was a question from Mr Van Hattem about the role of health insurers. As indicated earlier and as you know, the health insurance companies are involved in this whole process in many different ways. Then it's about involvement of all health insurance companies in all ROAZ regions, about catching up and so on. This also happens explicitly with an expert team covidzorg, which will advise on concrete further optimization in a chain. I expect a report on that in some time. I will send that advice to you by the expert team after publication. Mr Van Hattem asked for additional European scenarios. European scenarios range from a very low level of threat to a completely new pandemic, just like the scenarios previously created by the WRR here in the Netherlands. We also work with something similar for domestic scenarios, as you know. The European Union is now supporting Member States in improving the health of EU citizens and in other aspects of covid. You know the involvement, for example in vaccines and, as has just been mentioned, a digital corona certificate. Mr Van Hattem also asked about control possibilities for municipal councils. They would be better under the current Twm than before. He asked if the Minister could make clear what additional control options are available to municipal councils. The Twm stipulates that measures are to be adopted by the Minister and that implementation, supervision and enforcement are partly invested with the Mayor. It is explicitly stated in the Twm that the mayor is responsible to the city council for the administration he or she conducted under this chapter. Mr. Chairman. Mr Recourt asked for confirmation of the Minister's argument that there is no control over the Chambers in emergency regulations. Yeah, I'll confirm that. Emergency regulations shall be adopted by the President of the security region. They will not be submitted to the Chambers. Mr Recourt also asked: if measures are needed, is the Minister going to deal with emergency legislation or regulations, and does the First Chamber have control over emergency legislation? As has just been perfectly outlined in a very brief reply by Mrs De Boer as far as I am concerned, it depends on the situation you are going for. Both options are possible, both the emergency regulation and emergency legislation, and besides, you mentioned them all three, so I repeat that I would like to say that if tomorrow is a man's need, then I have nothing but the use of emergency regulations. After all, when your Chamber votes away the Twm, it stops within two days. Then we have to do something else. That will then be the case for the coming period. That is why the Council of State also says that it is irresponsible. I repeat, literally, the word they use. We need to look at the situation. I fully hope that measures will not be necessary in the coming period but also in the longer term. Neither you nor I can make an exact prediction about that. We all don't have that glass ball. Both options are therefore possible. Of course, urgent legislation is preferable when a situation arises. Of course, as I have already indicated, preference is given to adaptation, but in instalments, of the Wpg. But it takes time. We will, of course, come to both chambers with urgent legislation. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Prins asked me: what happens if the sectors fail to make good plans? Does that mean the Minister's gonna take action? The answer is that, of course, I will do so with my colleagues, depending on which sector they are dealing with. We'll talk first. We already are. We share the examples of other sectors. We emphasise the potential implications, starting with the sector itself, not even with a view to closure or anything else, but for example in terms of staff failure, customer risks or student failure etc. If that is not enough, then we will have to consider what we are going to do. Mr. Chairman. Mr Nicolaï asked: "What if the worst case scenario occurs? Then the Minister will have to resort to emergency regulations for those cases where powers have been stripped. Can the Minister explain why it is important that a stripped-up Twm variant is still 'propagated'?" I'm just gonna use my own words. Why am I filing it? The proposed sixth extension will continue to provide various bases for action, including in those categories. I have just referred you to one specific literature review which specifically mentioned these categories. Then it's about insulation, protection and so on. They're gonna last forever. In the light of the experience of the last two years, it means that you do need measures for a truly important dampening effect. Whether it would be sufficient in a complete sausage case scenario, a setting with a completely new variant that spreads very quickly and against which previous infection and vaccination does not work at all anymore, so if we, so to speak, turn the clock back to the first wave, is still very much the question. It depends very much on the timing and alertness with which you are present; I believe that Mr Van der Voort already indicated that, or perhaps I am mistaken and someone else did. It also depends on availability and the possibility of using any measure quickly. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Baay referred to the fourth vaccination, the turnout rates and so on. She had a legitimate question about communication and possibly also a very specific and targeted approach, with specific target groups, specific neighbourhoods and so on. I fully agree with you on appropriate communication............................................................................................................................................................................................. That's what we're putting in for a fourth vaccination. We have to keep doing that. I think you, like me, hear a lot in the area: the infections were very low and are now low, the summer is coming and corona is almost over. This lacks a sense of urgency. I heard you say, "Watch out. Especially when in the autumn you would find yourself in a situation in which we are advised to offer a repeat shot again, for a specific target group or broad, be very careful and focus on communication and once again on that fine-meshed one, because it is really important to reach as many people as possible." That's what I agree with. That is not easy, but we must continue to do so. In all kinds of situations, the GGDs and many other parties have simply shown that this can really make a difference. Mr. Chairman. Finally, Mrs Baay asked: can it be faster with that bill and the first tranche of the Wpg by skipping a consultation phase? I feel the inconvenience that I also share about the gap that arises when there is no longer a Twm and the first tranche of the Wpg is not yet there. That's really an inconvenience. We have seen earlier that the largest number of infections are not in the summer period, but we have also seen revivals in the summer period. Two years before, we have always seen that at least very early in the late summer there was a revival, in September et cetera. So there's really an inconvenience when there's a hole. The specific question is: can it be faster if you skip the consultation phase? Yes, you can, but then you'll skip an important step. As the consultation phase has been planned, it saves three weeks. Then you can bring the whole thing forward and you can also have a conversation with the House of Representatives and with your Chamber. So, yeah, it's possible. It's ambitious, but if a hole is created and this is a method of reducing that hole, then that's something to consider. But mind you, we'll skip the consultation phase. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u343	Thank you, Minister. Mrs Baay wants to ask a question, I think. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u344	Just a brief word about skipping the consultation phase. Wouldn't that be possible, in your view, I didn't really hear that very well? Or are you saying that's really impossible?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u345	I'm sorry if I'm not clear. Yeah, that's possible. So you're gonna bring it up. The timing, of course, is the recess. I really should see what that means with regard to the recess. Once again, I cannot make a clear statement on this at this time. You pull it out, but you pull something out.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u346	In order not to let this go: it may be possible, but it is not desirable as far as the Labour Party is concerned, and I hope others too. It is a matter of careful legislation. I can imagine something else, namely that you let it run in parallel and that any comments made by those you consult will not be incorporated by the cabinet itself into changes in the legislation, but through amendments or something like that. Anyway, that's just creative thinking. But I wouldn't be in favour of letting the experts you normally consult sit down.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u347	I do not want to anticipate the process et cetera, but I get specific questions and I answer them: yes, I can. Is it desirable or not? I think I've been very clear about that. In my view, it is equally desirable to create a gap, to no longer have a framework to take action if necessary, but to do so by means of an emergency regulation, an emergency procedure or an emergency law.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u348	Maybe just to clear up the entire trajectory after all. I understand from the Minister that you're gonna make a three-week profit if you drop the consultation. I also understand that the plan was to have the bill ready for consultation on 3 June. The question is: can this process be accelerated until 3 June? If not, I think that means that the bill would go to the Council of State on 3 June and perhaps, if the Council of State is very quick, could be submitted to the House of Representatives just before the summer recess. I think you're making very little time savings on that, on balance. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u349	I can't say that. Can you do it faster than June 3rd? No, you can't. We don't have to figure it out, but June 3rd is gonna get him in two weeks. Can't go any faster than that. I told you, not on per se, but on June 3rd. So if it can be June 1st, it doesn't really matter. Is it careful to do a consultation phase? Yes. You don't want to control a hole? Yes. It will be obvious what my preference is: leave the Twm up until the moment and encourage the Minister to have a modified Wpg as soon as possible. Yeah, that's what I'm finally here for. If your room votes differently, we'll have a hole. Can we try to shorten that? I should assess that with my officials.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u350	Thank you, Minister. I will close the debate and come to the finalisation of the legislative proposal and the draft decision. Does one of the Members wish to vote on the bill? That's the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u351	Mr President, a supplementary question. If it's okay, I still have to give an appreciation of both motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u352	The Minister asked for the floor to extend his term. That's what I like to give him.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u353	I have two motions, letter C and letter D. On both of these, my appreciation, my advice, is to dissuade them.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u354	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-6.u355	Members wish to vote on the legislative proposal. Then I suggest that after the break we vote on the bill. Does one of the Members wish to vote on the draft decision? That's the case. I would suggest that, after the break, the draft decision should also be voted on, if necessary. As you know, there is always a pause to give the Registry the opportunity to draw up a roadmap for voting and voting lists so that you can have them later. We will vote next week on the motions tabled.
