ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u1	The next item is the motion for a resolution (Doc. I would like to welcome the initiators, Mrs Bromet van GroenLinks and Mr Tjeerd de Groot of D66. I understand that Mrs Bromet already has six legislative proposals in her name and that Mr Tjeerd de Groot is the first legislative initiative proposal. So one initiator already has experience with it and for the other it is a unique situation. In any case, my compliments, because an initiative law is always a lot of work. It's also very nice political work. "Handwork" we sometimes call that. The initiators couldn't have done that without the fantastic supporters behind them now. These are Bauke ter Borg, policy officer at the D66 Group, Levi Bakker, legal adviser at the D66 Group, and of course Jaap van der Heijden of the GroenLinks Group. Of course, I would also like to welcome the Minister for Infrastructure and the Water State. He is present in section K as an advisor to the Chamber. Today is the first term of office. We're planning the other part of the legal process after the Mayreces. So today is only the first term on the side of the Chamber. I would also like to suggest changing the order of speakers. I'm gonna pass that change on to the Chamber. Mr Minhas of the VVD asked if he could speak first. If it is correct, at least I hope that he has already pulsed a little about what the other speakers think about it, at least in the case of those whom he has exceeded in order. No, that's not the case. I hope that the Chamber will allow this, because it is also Mr Minhas' maiden speech. I can imagine that it would also be nice for the VVD colleagues, who are present in large numbers, if Mr Minhas could begin. I see that there is agreement to this. Very collegial!
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u2	Then I give the floor to Mr Minhas of the VVD. Mr. Minhas, good luck with your maiden speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u3	Thank you, Mr President. It's special to be here. I will try to take you into the story that also brings me to this beautiful and special place. After a long journey across the world, my father, a young Bashir, came to the Netherlands as a guest worker in the early 1970s. He was impressed by the hospitality of the Dutch and was impressed by the speed with which he could work in the Netherlands. Not much lower followed my mother and the family was founded. My brothers, my sisters and I learned from our parents that we in this country are responsible for our success. They also told us that we are a guest in the Netherlands and that we should not harm the trust of Dutch society, which has given us Dutch society. When I was about 12 years old, I asked my father exactly what he meant by the words "we're guests" here. As a born Rotterdammer I didn't feel like a guest in the Netherlands at all. And no one in the Netherlands treated me as a guest in my native country. 'Cause this is my homeland. He replied that he came here as a guest worker and was also very hospitable. But he was planning on going back to his homeland someday. At the same time, he saw how other migrant workers and their children did not always manage to make something beautiful of their lives in a country where the opportunities lie for picking up. Mr. Chairman. We had that kind of conversation at home. These talks reached a high point around 2001. That was the year I was in the first class of the Wolfert van Borselen in Rotterdam. At that school, Ronald Sörensen taught history. That's the founder of Leefbaar Rotterdam. We talked at home about the problems that Pim Fortuyn, the final leader of Leefbaar Rotterdam, rightly addressed. But we also felt that the solutions he offered would not always work well. That was when my father said to us: "This land has brought us, but also you, a great deal of good. You must not let a group of people who refuse to participate in this society destroy it. But you shouldn't let populists destroy it who don't offer real solutions. You must do something in return for the society that has meant so much good to you." That's why I'm here. I have chosen to give something back to society and become politically active. I have gone into politics to do something in return for the society that has brought a very large group a great deal of good, because that is sometimes forgotten in this country. Too often in politics it is about what cannot, what goes wrong, what mistakes are made and who is guilty of it. I don't want to be that kind of person. I want to offer solutions and see which things can. We Liberals have been good at this for 300 years. Why couldn't we get even better at it for the next 300 years? And there is no monopoly on liberalism, but my values start with freedom, with confidence, with equality, but also with responsibility. That responsibility brings me to the important subject we are discussing tonight. This responsibility already assumed Count Willem II of Holland more than 800 years ago, by setting up the first official waterscape, the High Council of Rhineland. It became necessary at that time to organise polders and drainage in a good way. Soon after, the foundation of the Schieland High Council and the Delfland High Council were established. The rest is history. This makes our waterboards one of the oldest institutions in our state system. In short, water boards are indispensable organisations for dry feet and clean water. For years now, the water boards provide clean and sufficient water, but also for our safety, by laying dikes, by laying quays and by managing them. Luckily, that task is laid down by law. If it's the VVD's fault, it stays that way. Tonight we are discussing the proposal for an own-initiative opinion on the secure seats. Let me be clear: the VVD is not in favour of the initiative proposal. Mr. Chairman. The composition of the water authority is traditionally based on the representation of important groups of users. The water authority is not for nothing a so-called 'functional democracy'. By abolishing the secured seats, waterboards become a political arena, while they are a very good example of interest representation. This fits perfectly with the form of functional governance. By abolishing the secured seats, water boards will soon look like provinces and municipalities as well. Water boards have a very clear task: to provide dry feet and clean water; nothing more, but nothing less. The VVD stands for a waterboard in which members sit with expertise, with knowledge of the effects of the laws and regulations we make here in this Chamber, but also with practical experience. The secured seats that we have for many years are filled by farmers, by companies, but also by nature reserve managers. They offer that certainty. This is essential if we are to achieve real acceptance and implementable measures. Mr. Chairman. The VVD still sees the value of the ancient meaning that we have agreed with each other: interest, payment and control. These protected categories in the waterboards have a demonstrable interest in good water management and make a substantial contribution to this. For example, farmers with their soil maintain watercourses and still provide water storage in many places. According to the VVD, there is insufficient attention to this issue if the seats are abolished. Mr. Chairman. The initiators refer to it in their proposal on social issues, which I recognize as such, such as climate change. Do the initiators agree with us that the need for interest is still there? Mr. Chairman. In our view, the social task, which the initiators rightly appoint, will not lead to an expansion of the waterboards. In our opinion, this will only become more complex, given the circumstances. But the task of waterboards is not expanded. Do the initiators not agree that the circumstances have also been different over the past 800 years? Waterboards have shown that they can be handled in a very good way. Then why is it necessary, in 2022, to abolish the secure seats? Mr. Chairman. As a blow to the flames, the initiators also ignore some of the renowned experts of our waterboard democracy. The participation of stakeholders in functional democracy was highlighted as a strong point by the OECD in 2014. In 2015, the Water Advisory Committee, now incorporated into the Environment and Infrastructure Council, also indicated that the quality level of the secure seats is high, because they are elected on their qualities to contribute to good governance. Let me mention these qualities: efficient, effective, integer, innovative and transparent. My question to the initiators is therefore: what do you intend to do with this bill? Do you want waterboards to become even more efficient, even more effective, even more integrity, even more innovative and more transparent? In what way will further democratisation contribute to this? Mr. Chairman. In short, my group is not enthusiastic about this proposal. In fact, I believe that other countries can take an example of the Dutch water management and the organisation of the Dutch water system. That is why I conclude my speech with the words of the former Portuguese Minister for the Environment: Dutch water management is like a formula 1 car, the technique of which has been incorporated in a regular passenger car in a few years' time. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u4	Then I'd like to congratulate you on your lovely maiden speech. It was a very nice, personal story about your parents. I have to say, you stood there like you've been doing it for years. I think that's good. Very welcome to the House of Representatives and good luck. It is very nice that a lot of colleagues are here, so I will suspend the sitting for a single moment, so that you can receive the congratulations. You can stand there and the colleagues can come to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u5	The next item is the same bill. I give the floor to Mr Stoffer of the SGP for his contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u6	Mr. Chairman. It is an honour for me to be the first audience here to congratulate Mr Minhas from this chair on his maiden speech. Let me say to him: I am glad that your father did not go back with you to wherever and I am glad that you are active here in the Netherlands and as a true Dutchman contributes to our national policy. That's what I thought before, but I didn't know your story back then. I look forward to further cooperation. Mr. Chairman. I am also happy to do so with regard to this initiative proposal. But let me start with a win. You'll believe it or not, but I'll start with a win. GroenLinks and D66 previously voted in favour of a motion that aimed to accommodate watership tasks in provinces. Now they write: "We have the waterboards high on our plate and find them of great added value in an increasingly complex water system." As far as I am concerned, a very large exclamation point can be added. In the distant past, farmers have collectively put their hands on good water management in their area. From there the waterboards were created in the centuries after. With knowledge of the area and an approach mentality, the waterboards have acquired an internationally renowned position and our water management remains in order. The participation of farmers, now through secure seats, has contributed to this. That is why we should not abolish these secure seats. On the contrary, if they weren't there yet, we should put them in immediately. I hope that I can convince the proposers and everyone here in the Chamber. Mr. Chairman. I would like to say that it is always worth a compliment to make an initiative law. However, I regret to say in my speech that I do not agree with the arguments that, from the point of view of democracy and because of the general interests, the secure seats should be completely abolished. I will also show that, in addition to one recommendation to abolish the secure seats, there are two recommendations to preserve them. Mr. Chairman. The authors say that they want complete democratization of the waterboards and therefore the abolition of the secure seats. But isn't that a limited understanding of what democracy is? Not only am I asking that question, but also the Council of State and other lawyers. This is a functional, decentralised government body with a closed-down household and a legally defined set of tasks. The water boards are more about how than about what. That's what I'm saying from the inside. I've been a general board member of the Veluwe Water Board for about four or five years. As a water engineer, I have worked with the waterboards on behalf of the Minister of Infrastructure and Water State for many years. Above all, I have benefited greatly from the knowledge that farmers have brought to the outside world. As far as I am concerned, this includes a fair representation by the various stakeholder groups, i.e. interests democracy. We must not forget that farmers manage 60% of the land and are therefore directly affected by decisions taken by the waterboard, while they are very much in numbers against townspeople, for example, but also villagers. 14% of drivers now have links with agriculture. If you look at appropriate democratic legitimacy for each group of stakeholders, is the system of 1. an open application procedure for the secure seats and 2. free elections for three quarters of the remaining seats, i.e. for representatives of residents, not entirely appropriate? I would also like to hear a response from the Minister. I would like to point out to the authors that democratically elected members of state have room to limit the number of secure seats, but that has not happened in many provinces. Apparently, there is a democratic appreciation in the region for the contribution of secure seats. Do the proposers at least recognise that the decisions of the waterboard affect farmers and land-based organisations relatively heavily and that it is fair to weigh their interests carefully? The proposers indicate that representatives of these interests are free to participate in the elections through existing or new parties. But that voice in the chapter is not guaranteed and can therefore be absent. However, if you feel that sector-specific interests are overrepresented, as the Boelhouwer Committee points out, then you can also choose to limit the number of secure seats. My question is: why didn't the proposers choose this?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u7	It's very nice, because we have an experienced expert in the room. That means expertise in this debate. As a general board member... Is it true that that is my image; I have looked at the different waterboards....................................................................................................................................................................... It is there, therefore, through the parties and through the representatives of the people. Is it true that via this route too, the representation that the SGP considers so important simply comes about when citizens choose?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u8	Sure. I haven't checked all the water boards, but let me take my own party and my own waterboard. The leader of the list is a farmer. That is partly because I said at the time: I quit. That's why he could stay in there. Although all farmers would vote for one farmer on the SGP list, I would love it, of course, it is only by accident. I have just indicated that 60% of the area managed is outside. It's agricultural territory. Only 14% have a relationship with an agricultural holding. That certainly shouldn't be any less so. At the moment when we are going to miss those secure seats, both for farmers and for business and nature organisations, I think that we are simply throwing away a lot of practical knowledge. I'd be sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u9	A false contradiction is being created here, as if only through secure seats can you represent that expertise and that farmer's interest. The SGP gives the perfect example, as the CDA also gives a very good example. Local parties, their own initiatives, cooperations: parties recognise the importance of this, and otherwise they organise it. There is therefore a false contradiction between the interests of farmers only through secure seats and the democratic interest. My question to the SGP, through you, President, is: what are you so afraid of? I believe that the interests of farmers can be very well represented and perhaps even better represented if we make all seats democratic.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u10	That's a nice question. What I'm afraid of is this. Not that there won't be any farmer left when you have all chosen people. In fact, if you look at the SGP interest an sich, I think: if we keep the same number of seats, a lot of waterboards could add an SGP, or a CDA or someone from Water Of course or whatever. But eventually, if you're not careful, you're not gonna have that anymore with farmers in it. I've noticed in practice... Let me give you one example. As a water-state engineer, I was once involved in the torment of the Twente Canal. If there had not been a council there that was trusted by the peasants, it would have become, so to speak, a tough battle. Why did it go well there? Not because I came there as a proper water-state engineer wearing a tie, which I have now taken off, but mainly because there was first a gentleman and later a lady who came from an agricultural company and became familiar. There's a lot to do in the outskirts. Let's hold that, please. The same applies to business and certainly also to nature. My fear is that we will lose that in a moment and people will say: we will stop, we will no longer participate. Or: we throw the ass against the crib.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u11	I always like listening to Mr Stoffer's stories about when he worked at Rijkswaterstaat.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u12	That's what I think, Mr. Chairman. My love, my love, my love, my love, my love, my
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u13	That's what I thought. I hear these stories quite often, Mr President, I can tell you. That is not what my question is about, despite the fact that it almost gives me an incentive to ask another question about it. It concerns me the summary of the disappearance of knowledge from such a waterboard when you lift the secure seats. I think Mr Stoffer was present at the round table we had. There was a Mrs Clevering, who explained very clearly that I liked how many times farmers, but also people from business, could have a say in all those processes of such a waterboard. She finally mentioned seven options. Seven times. She mentioned all these steps up to the actual decision-making process. Seven times, I'm gonna call it one more time. I wonder whether Mr Stoffer agrees with me that this is actually rather bureaucratic.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u14	Whether it's bureaucratic or not, I think participation is always good. I like direct involvement in such a functional board. The point is that you have people sitting there. Mr Minhas gave that to you in his speech, and I liked that. The fact that there are people who understand everything that is going on around water and water quality and so on is beautiful. There must also be people who understand how to manage nature areas and people who understand how to run a farm and what it really means when the level is too high or too low and just keep going. So there's my thing. Do I think that's too bureaucratic? Sometimes you need a little bureaucracy to get together and achieve something that's socially supported.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u15	Wow. I'm going to remember that for other debates on bureaucracy. That doesn't change the fact that the SGP actually says: it's okay to tell the same story seven times. It's not like it's different from the other time. Seven times, on a particular subject, the same thing is inserted by a specific party, each time. This initiative proposal takes one layer. So we're left with six, six different layers. I wonder whether Mr Stoffer does not think that those six layers that remain, rather than seven, still provide sufficient guarantees for all those interests that Mr Stoffer considers so important. Those interests can still emerge in these six ways.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u16	I don't know exactly which six they are. I am simply concerned that in the representative administration, the board that also determines the budget, the board that also consolidates certain decisions, both general administration and day-to-day administration, there is also simply expertise from different groups. Participation is nice. I don't know exactly which layer will be removed if we take it out and exactly which six we have left. I don't have them all sharp anymore. One thing: get rid of the other six for all I care. There's talk about that. But directly secured seats on that board really matter to me, because of what I just indicated. I won't repeat it. But there's just got to be some knowledge of things in there.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u17	Finally, Mrs Van Esch.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u18	Finally, Mr President. I do not really have a question anymore, but I am going to withhold a number of things from Mr Stoffer's contribution, including the removal of these six layers, which I believe are equally essential for the interests that Mr Stoffer represents here. At least it's good to know that those layers can be removed. Perhaps that would also matter in the democratic process that exists.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u19	I hope we have a cup of coffee sometime and that Mrs Van Esch will tell me which six were. I don't have them all sharp anymore. Then it's, I think, quite an option to get one, two, three or four out. I don't know. Let's just see what's practical. Shall I continue, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u20	I'd love to.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u21	Let's see where I left off. I note an inconsistency in the reasoning of the initiators. They write that watership tasks should not be assigned to provinces, because the water interest will then compete with other interests. That's right. But if you are such a fan of democratisation, is it so bad that the voter is involved or that the importance of water in relation to other interests should be considered more or less important? I'm just saying, you shouldn't idealize democratisation. This applies not only to the question of whether watership tasks should be transferred to the province, but also to the question of whether the secure seats should be abolished. In short, I do not believe that the statement that it is necessary, from a democratic point of view, to abolish the seats that have been secured does not make sense. Working with secure seats is not less democratic, but at least more democratic and more democratic in terms of the SGP. Mr. Chairman. Another argument put forward by the proposers is that general interests have become increasingly important in the tasks of the waterboards and that therefore all seats must be filled by elections by residents. But I think that is a somewhat short-sighted reasoning. In the explanatory memorandum, the proposers suggest that there is an extension and increase of the tasks, responsibilities and regulatory powers of waterboards. However, critical questions have been raised in the report. These are also stated by experts. The tasks set out in the Water Authority Act have not changed. Rural frameworks and standards apply, inter alia, to water safety and quality. It's gonna stay that way. Waterboards will have to comply with that on the left or right. In the note following the report, the authors withdrew. It is indicated that not so much the task package has changed, but more the context. But that is different from changing branches and powers. I am particularly critical of the possibility for the secure seats to influence the decisions on levels that are good for nature and climate and possibly less good for agriculture. Then I would like to point out that through the Environment Act, the Empire and provinces have sufficient instruments to impose certain instructional rules or environmental values in the public interest. As far as I am concerned, therefore, these general interests are more than sufficiently safeguarded. For challenges related to climate adaptation and water quality, it is precisely the expertise of farmers and land-based organisations that is needed to bring them to a successful conclusion. The directors of the secure seats speak the language of the landowners concerned and can take them into the necessary area processes. It is not for nothing that the OECD mentions interest participation in the Dutch waterboard system as a very strong point. That is precisely what is in favour of the retention of those secure seats. Of course, we have just talked about this. However, if you really think it's important and really want to guarantee it, you'll still get to those secured seats. Not to mention: waterboards are already working on climate adaptation, biodiversity and tackling drought problems. If secure seats were already obstructive, they would be in a positive way. They carry the rails and make sure the train doesn't derail. In short, I do not believe that the argument put forward by the proposers that the public interest calls for the abolition of the secure seats is a good thing. Mr. Chairman. However, then perhaps there are still people who say: but there is also an opinion from the Boelhouwer committee to abolish the secured seats. I would like to say this to them. The first waterboard was established in 1255. That's an incredible long time, isn't it? When deciding on an age-old administrative body like the waterboard, you have to look beyond the emotion and advice of the moment. Two authoritative advisory committees came up with rather opposing opinions. Mr Minhas also referred to this. The Commission's opinion on water State legislation in 2009 wrote: "Reservation of seats for specific categories of interest in the waterboard is in the Committee's view appropriate to the functional nature and task of the waterboard'. Mr. President, may I stop for a moment?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u22	Maybe it's okay if you finish your speech first. I think you're...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u23	I'm going to the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u24	That's good. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u25	In 2015, the Water Advisory Committee, Mr Minhas, also explicitly commented on this in "The Committee supports the principle of securing seats in the waterboard as an interest democracy." This ensures that all interests are actually represented on the board and not undersnow in the larger group of residents." But a temporary committee with former PvdA-Kamer member Boelhouwer as chairman had to be flown in to get another advice. It is also an opinion in which the conclusion is not automatically derived from the underlying analysis. I would like to hear from the authors why they reject two of the three opinions. I would like to hear from the Minister how he appreciates the first two opinions. Mr. Chairman. I'm just finishing up my speech, because I'm really at the end. Let me just make it clear. My aftertaste of handling the bill so far is that GroenLinks and D66 cannot have it that is secured that there are farmers on the waterboard. Another "boerje tease" is what I call it. If they think that the farmers' interest is too often the deciding factor, just say so. Then there are other ways to address this and not to quote Professor of State Law Mr Elzinga "disabling the sneaky of farmers' interests through the general electoral system." The SGP certainly likes the landowner. As indicated, that is not without reason. Mr. Chairman. In short, the SGP calls for the retention of the secured seats in the waterboards and cannot therefore support the bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u26	There are some interruptions. First of all, Mr De Hoop, PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u27	I object to one comment by Mr Stoffer, namely on the Boelhouwer committee. I think he is suggesting that this would be a non-independent committee with a political agenda. I'm sorry to hear that. I would like him to bring back a little nuance in that or at least indicate that he may not have meant it as I have understood it. I do not think that is necessary in today's debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u28	I said it the way I said it. That the committee would not be independent, you can question some of that. Look at Mr Boelhouwer's position in the Chamber. If I were to leave this Chamber and make you chairman of such a committee, I would at least give the impression that I would be against getting them out. I wouldn't do that. Someone else can make the choice any way he wants. If you make someone who has explicitly spoken in this area chairman of a committee, then I cannot escape the feeling that this gives you the feeling that you are thinking in a particular direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u29	I insist that I find the irony rather great that we are having a debate here on secure seats with clear interests. As far as my party is concerned, it has to be different. I find it ironic that Mr Stoffer is putting him in this way. I'll leave it at that, too. I'm sorry he does that this way. I don't know Mr Stoffer like that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u30	Would it be all right if I gave Mr Sneller the floor? I think it's about the same point.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u31	I would like to ask Mr Stoffer if he could mention the other members of this committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u32	Sure. I've spoken to them, too, but I'm not going to name them all. I just told you what was going on. The figurehead is specifically mentioned in this way, but I'm not going to start a questioning about who the other four were exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u33	No, but Mr Stoffer knows very well that it is not a questioning, but a request for some nuance. I would like to support Mr De Hoop in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u34	I think that nuance is made. I have indicated that I am not necessarily saying that this committee has not been completely independent. But I notice that the content is very different from that of two authoritative committees before that. I'd better report that. I have already mentioned this in committee debates, but also when we spoke to Mr Boelhouwer in the round table. I find it at least remarkable that someone who had a certain political stance, then is chairman of the committee, which is something different from those two other authoritative committees. So much for my nuance.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u35	Nice to hear how a political party here praises appointed professional politicians who end up in a seat. You can also reason the other way; I'm sure we'll hear that from other parties as well. My question is this. Is Mr Stoffer aware that LTO and the employers' organisation VNO-NCW are the interest groups that appoint those seats and who can put those professional politicians there? And those are again strongholds of the CDA and the VVD. Many farmers do not feel well represented in those parties. The nitrogen policy is a good example of this, because it is the same CDA and LTO that are playing in one piece and make life miserable for all these small family businesses. If you're a big corporation, you can put up expensive stables and then you can apply for bank loans of millions. But these little farmers don't feel represented at all. I've been talking to these people all day today. They say, "Those seats are our enemies." We are represented through a local party and those local parties are kept off the board because the professional politicians, whom you are so enthusiastic about, are playing in front of the coalition CDA/VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u36	I think Mr Madlener has spoken to farmers other than me. I have spoken a lot in the past period, including the people who are represented in the group who are the hardest on the road: Farmers Defence Force. They all said, "Please, keep them in." I think Mr Madlener speaks more than other farmers than I do. But the farmers I know, and there are a lot of small, large, medium-sized people who feel better represented by those secure seats than that would generally be, and someone from a village or town, who has no sense of how to run a farm, tells them how to do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u37	It seems that the farmers are not all in line. This is not just about farmers, but also about businesses and nature organisations. But you can see that the organisations that designate those people and who can put the professional politicians there represent only part of the group. LTO and CDA have a very heavy voice in this. We all see how the CDA and LTO deal with the interests of those small farmers. It's never been so bad for the little farmers. I think that the farmers I am talking to are a little more critical of that than the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u38	I am not allowed to ask questions the other way round, but I wonder whether these farmers would like to see no representation of farmers at all. Those I have spoken to, and that has been a great deal in recent years, especially since the moment it played that it would change this, are saying to me and masse: please, keep those secure seats in it. Business as well. Landscape owners sometimes look at that differently, I admit, but there too they have recognised the importance that it remains as it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u39	I hear that Mr Madlener is going to choose the secured seats from now on. I'm looking forward to his contribution. But my question to Mr Stoffer is as follows. He found the opinion of the Water Advisory Committee from 2015 much better than that of the Boelhouwer Committee. I agree. But does he really agree with the recommendation of the Water Advisory Committee that the current obligation, namely that the secure seats should necessarily be placed on the executive board, should be abolished? They also suggest a fixed ratio between the secured seats. Does he think it is a good advice, therefore, a good aspect of the Water Advisory Committee that issued this opinion in 2015?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u40	I'm a rather conservative person. If something's going well in my opinion, you shouldn't change it. As far as I'm concerned, we don't have to, but there's always plenty to talk about. Even with someone with a bit of a conservative impact like me, we can talk about minor improvements. I'm sure there could be some improvement. I am explicitly concerned that we ensure that specific knowledge in the field of farms, water and also nature organisations are represented in the waterboard, even if you have to go outside. That kind of advice is not before now, but I wouldn't be wrong to think about it again. You always have to look at small improvements in society.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u41	Then the monkey comes out of the sleeve. I was following the argument and I thought: what is the main argument? Is it the knowledge? Well, we've already shown that you can secure that knowledge in other ways. It belongs to general board members and that knowledge is not lost. The people who are now being selected will probably go back into that AB. You have, through you, President......................................................................................................................................................................................................... Then it was "no, it's something else," but the end is conservatism, because "I just want to keep it like it was, because I'm scared that it's changing." And I understand that, and you can disagree about that, too. It has fallen into place now, Mr. Chairman, and I wanted to share that with you. But I also wanted to ask a question, and that question is: can you please stop this false contradiction through you, President-in-Office, please?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u42	I don't know what to stop doing. I think I'm free to say what I want here. That I'm conservative, that's right. My great-grandfather was a mailman. My grandfather became a bikemaker. My uncles started a garage after that and you saw that progress. I'm good for improvements if you think it's going in the right direction. But here I have the specific fear that in the somewhat longer term we will really lose that knowledge in the waterboards. That's where it really is for me. So of course that is related to a piece of conservatism, but the most important and the main argument for me is that that knowledge really disappears. I'm afraid that immediately in that outlying area, which is so hugely important for the waterboarding tasks, you'll all get people saying, "I don't want anything to do with that waterboard anymore. I'm out of it." Well, then you've really lost democracy and people's participation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u43	Thank you. Finally, Mrs Maatoug.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u44	Certainly in conclusion, Mr President. I think that is also a false contradiction, because we now pretend that the importance of a group is always the same and as if that is just expertise. Mr Madlener said it very well: we do not pretend that this group has different interests. It is also very important that all these interests are represented and so you cannot define in advance what is the general interest. The public interest comes about because we have an exchange of ideas and you decide on it together. That's just as I can't say securely: that's the position, because that's the expertise I have. Because you bring in four other policy economists and they give you a different position. So I would very much like to ask you to continue to apply that nuance constantly. Let us not pretend that the public interest is protected only by a selective group. That's only what you get when you democratize.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u45	This is not a question at all, it is a statement. I believe that the public interest in these waterboards is well protected, partly by those secure seats. I'd say don't throw the kid away with the bathwater. Look at what is found internationally and is said about our waterboards. It has been running well for centuries and of course there have been some changes in how you put together the waterboard, but... I'm sticking to what I said, Mr. Chairman. I've been orienting for ten minutes, and maybe even fifteen, and this is pretty much it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u46	Mrs. Van der Plas, BBB.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u47	I've been sitting here a long time annoying myself and not Mr. Stoffer, you know. I am annoyed by the calling all the time for "the interests of farmers, the interests of farmers." Here in this Chamber it seems to be forgotten that farmers make us food. We're talking about a common interest. A general interest is food production. That's what farmers are for. I would simply like to ask Mr Stoffer whether he agrees with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u48	Mr President, completely! And landscape management! If we did not have the farmers, what would happen, because 60% of the outside area is managed by farmers? The food and management of our landscape: it will be a mess in the country if we lose those people.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u49	Thank you very much, Mr. Stoffer. Now we go to Mr. Sneller, D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u50	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Congratulations to the colleague of the VVD. He had a nice maiden speech, but it started out nicer than it ended, I say. It is an honour to have this debate among these water people. Mr. Chairman. From 2014 to 2016, I lived in Myanmar and there I was allowed to contribute to the building of democracy. Until the coup d'état of 1 February last year, one of the main points of conflict of democratic parties was there a certain provision in the Constitution. That constitution laid down that of both the chambers of the national parliament, but also in all regional parliaments, 25% of the seats in advance of the elections were as a kind of quota or, if I may say so, as some sort of secured seats were for the army. It still is. Since the coup, the entire power has been taken over, but the Constitution still states that 25% of the seats are for the army or rather for the armed forces. The commander of the armed forces there may decide which armies exactly take over which seats. That is not clear to anyone else. Honestly, those secure seats aren't on my stomach. But you will understand that I had to think about this a number of times when preparing this debate and I saw some parallels. Mr. Chairman. Hans van Mierlo once said: aging can't stop you, but renewal can. I find that striking in this context, because after nearly a hundred years of discussion about the democratic legitimacy of the waterboards, the Chamber is now faced with the choice to renew the waterboards already mentioned: the oldest public bodies in the Netherlands. A positive response to this choice is more relevant than ever, because the water interest has now become, even more than ever, a general interest. Our water management has consequences not only for the aforementioned interest groups, farmers, businesses, nature organisations, but also for everyone. That's because of different things. The Netherlands is increasingly suffering from extreme weather. Last August in Limburg, we saw how tragic the consequences can be. Fortunately, the devastating force of this extreme rainfall did not cost hundreds of lives, as was the case in Belgium and Germany, but caused enormous material damage, not to mention the intangible damage. Mr. Chairman. We are also increasingly faced with extreme droughts, which not only put pressure on our nature, our biodiversity, our drinking water and indeed, I say to Mr Van der Plas, our food supply and our shipping, but can also lead to huge costs for households. One million houses are in danger of sinking because the foundations rot because of too low groundwater levels. The cost of this can be up to €120,000 per household. No small amount. Mr. Chairman. In addition to the extreme weather, the Netherlands also faces another water crisis. This too has great social impact and a great price card. I am, of course, talking about achieving the objectives of the Water Framework Directive. We know that only 1% of Dutch waters are now in good condition. 1%! The water is suffocated by drug residues, pesticides and manure. If we do nothing now to improve water quality, then we could just come in another form of a nitrogen crisis. Then the country will lock up again in large areas, because we are not complying with the law again. Mr. Chairman. Water boards are about matters that have major consequences for society as a whole, the general interest. The choices there must therefore be made and monitored in a democratic manner. As far as I am concerned, this does not fit in with the system of secure seats. I therefore wholeheartedly support this initiative law. Moreover, we opt for clarity for the waterboard drivers themselves, as the Boelhouwer Committee recommended. A committee on which Mrs Adema of the VVD and Mr Van Zwol of the CDA were also members. That's what I would have liked to hear for a nuance. Those aren't people who say very easily: there's an old PvdA room member, who I'm chasing in polonaise. Mr. Chairman. That committee writes that the distinction between the groups from the secure seats and the political groups has become highly diffuse and that this discussion will continue. It also calls for this choice to be made here once and to ensure that it is not called into question over and over again and that it stays above their heads. Mr. Chairman. In my view, what this legislative amendment does not mean, while it is often put forward, even just now, is that the knowledge and skills of our waterboard drivers are being lost or that there would be a deterioration in it at all. Mr Boelhouwer also wrote this in his position paper nicely to the Chamber for a round table discussion. "Because the necessary knowledge is present at the maximum of the water boards that have developed into true knowledge institutes, we can assume with reasonable certainty that nothing extra is added by the farmer, employer or nature manager as a member of general government and executive board." I'm just quoting it. Mr. Chairman. It does not mean that this knowledge and skill is lost, not only because of the high-quality civil service that is in place and the knowledge that is in place, but also because they can, of course, simply run for office in order to join that general administration. It doesn't mean that either, but that has just been changed quite nicely in the debate on the interruption, so that the interests of the secure seats will not be heard. Because in addition to running for office, there are of course all kinds of participatory procedures to do so, which you all know much better than I do, as with all the other types of government we have in the Netherlands: local government, provincial government and of course also here in the Lower House. There are all these ways for the interest groups to make themselves heard, so that we can weigh it carefully here, as Mr Stoffer said. Mr. Chairman. We therefore support this amendment, but I still have a number of questions. First of all, the turnout in watership elections: it has risen since they were held at the same time, but remains low. What is the vision of the initiators, but also of the Minister, to increase that turnout in the water-ship elections? Mr. Chairman. Nevertheless, also against the background of the 2012 research motion that was cited: why didn't the initiators choose to include some of the other proposed changes in the waterboard structure? I would like to mention, for example, a further dualisation, taking away the province's ability to determine, without objective measure, the size of the water authority, the crown designation, I cannot fail to mention it here; I do not think that it was recommended and perhaps even more far-reaching adjustments. As I also attach great importance to a thorough process towards the next waterboard elections, I would like to be clear to all concerned. What path do they see before them? Mr President, concluding. Where there is politics, there are interests, but having an interest in itself is not an argument to secure those seats. We don't do that in any other layer of government. After all, we are confident that elected representatives of the people can represent those interests and ultimately make an assessment. I have this confidence in the elected representatives in the waterboards and in the voters. I hope the other groups share that here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u51	Thank you. An interruption by Mr Van der Molen, CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u52	I must confess that it is a little bit of a homesick debate for Mr Sneller and yours truly, because we were spokesperson for the Interior in the previous period, so we have been doing this kind of debate for a very long time and a lot. It's just nice to meet again here from a different angle. I know Mr Sneller from that period as someone who knows about the hat and the edge, especially when it comes to democracy, but who also attaches great importance to what, for example, the Council of State advises on the care of the law. Mr. Chairman. However, I would like to pick up a point from Mr Sneller's speech. That is that secure seats would not tolerate the democratic organisation of any administration. However, the Council of State points to a report written at European level that should appeal to him as a D66er................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Could Mr Sneller dwell on that opinion of the Council of State?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u53	In general, there may, of course, be reasons to set aside certain seats in exceptional situations. I just don't see it here. I also think they're getting worse. That's what I've outlined. The less functional it is and the more general it is, the less that reason becomes. I do not have the impression, also on the basis of the investigations carried out by the Boelhouwer committee, that these interests would otherwise be over-snowing.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u54	However, I would like to ask Mr Sneller why these interests are becoming less important, as if there were less interest for farmers in the conservation of the landscape or of nature, or because farmers would apparently not be interested in the quality of the water flowing into their own pasture, so to speak. It's still just a functional board. It will not be a general democracy that could decide on a very wide range of areas. I would therefore ask Mr Sneller to be a little more specific in why the interests of farmers, for example, would be reduced in the coming years in the choices made by the waterboard.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u55	Mr Van der Molen is now making it a bit black and white. It is a shift from the aspect of functional democracy to general governance. Of this, I say that the general interests vis-à-vis the specific interests currently represented in those secure seats are indeed shifting. Nor do I think that many people have disputed this so far, because more needs to be done to ensure that things happen in the management of the drought. This does not only affect farmers; these things affect everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u56	Finally, Mr Van der Molen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u57	I would ask Mr Sneller, for my own understanding, to be a little more specific in this respect, because the point that Mr Sneller has made here today is that the general interest is growing and the business interest or the agricultural interest is apparently getting smaller. I'm just trying to figure that out. After all, we all live in the same world. We still have farmers affected by the decisions of the waterboard. There is no doubt that the problems are getting bigger, but that does not mean that we do not need knowledge from that sector. That doesn't mean that they couldn't be disproportionately affected by decisions and would be entitled to a place at that board table? In what area does this general interest become so much greater that we no longer need to have a place at the table for farmers, for example?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u58	Now Mr Van der Molen is confusing two things. He's doing what Mr. Stoffer did now. On the one hand, he confuses the expertise and, on the other hand, the extent to which people are affected by the consequences and the extent to which others are influenced by the decisions taken by the board. My thesis is next. I believe that I have replied to the question of the input of knowledge and expertise. As far as the public interest is concerned, I think we are talking about climate adaptation and the effects of drought on everyone. Households are affected by this. That goes much wider than just the specific interests, as Mr Van der Molen has pointed out.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u59	I'm a little intrigued by the statements I'm hearing here. It is now being suggested that we will have less drought if we remove the protected waterboards. Would you mind taking me with you sometime?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u60	The point is that the overall impact on specific stakeholders is taken into account in a different way if there are no secure seats versus the impact on everyone, and so everyone has equal voting rights and influence on the composition of the board.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u61	I find it a bit difficult to follow this, because within those secure seats there is a decades-long build-up of knowledge about the area. I have monthly contact with stakeholders............................................................................................................................................ That knowledge and know-how is going to ruin you. So it's just gonna be less. Could you reflect on that for a second?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u62	I believe that I have reflected on this, partly because of the Committee's own quote. This knowledge and expertise is also largely in the administrative apparatus, which can also be bowed to by general waterboard drivers. On the other hand, they can, of course, still stand as candidates as they can now. So they can also be elected.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u63	Finally, Mr. Goldsword.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u64	That is really a difference of opinion. I cannot imagine that you can say here with a dry eye that civil servants can fulfil the role of people who work a country for decades and have knowledge of it much better or more equally. That's just a way of thinking that I can't follow.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u65	I regret that the JA21 Member does not consistently pursue the idea of democratization that JA21 so often expresses. I think that the person mentioned here, who has been working on this for 40 years, would be an excellent list-taker, as Mr Stoffer has just outlined. Nothing relieves those of the right or the duty, if they are so good, to run and be elected.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u66	That was a little entrapment. I see Mr Goudswaard doesn't want to respond anymore. Then I will go to Mr Grinwis, Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u67	My question is this. We are now discussing the democratisation, in the words of D66 and GroenLinks, of the administration of the waterboards. What is the future vision of the waterboards of the D66 Group?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u68	You should always be careful with the water expert Grinwis. Let me not risk it and just leave it to our spokesman. I am dealing with this bill today and he has asked me not to say too much about the territorial congruence of provincial borders and river basins, but I have been involved in this in the past.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u69	I can explain this answer in two ways. One: it is a good thing that Mr Sneller does not mention a 2012 motion from his predecessor Schouw, which proposes that the waterboards be abolished. In fact, this proposal looks forward to maintaining the waterboards, but more or less in the form of general governance. My question is: if you create more or less a general government in the waterboard, does Mr Faster not see risks in relation to a general government, a general democracy like the municipality, which is currently working together? In doing so, the municipality has very clear authority to establish, for example, a zoning plan with a water storage facility, while the waterboard merely advises.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u70	I don't think that's what I'm afraid of. The Environment Act also introduces a fairly defined task for water boards, but still a more general task. Municipalities must also cooperate with other municipalities and also with water boards in making their policies. I don't think that's very new.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u71	Finally, Mr Grinwis.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u72	The answer to my question in the first term was clever, in the sense of deviant. However, I challenge Mr Sneller if he does not wish to give an answer now to the position of this proposal with regard to the future and the independent survival of the waterboards, whether he can come back to this in greater detail in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u73	I hesitate to say too much, but I think this will at least make them more future-proof.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u74	Mr Sneller just asked me in an interruption if I wanted to mention all the names of the Boelhouwer committee. I think I did admit at the time, and otherwise I will do it now, that I didn't know all those names by heart. I walked by them all once and I also know where they came from, but I knew there were five of them. Let's say the D66 and GroenLinks proposals are in the right place. In any case, many parties point out that these farmers will automatically end up on all kinds of electoral lists. As far as I'm aware, D66 is a participant in Water of course. So my question is: how many farmers are now on the lists of Water Natural who are actually active in the waterboard? I don't need to know names, but just numbers, just like I did with those committees that knew five.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u75	I should remain guilty of the answer to Mr Stoffer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u76	If that question were asked the other way around, how much for the SGP? I wouldn't know exactly. I'm sure it's one, but there aren't that many and I'm guessing that Water isn't, of course, and many others aren't. In other words, does Mr Sneller agree with me that, if this continues, you are instantly very likely that there will be a lot less knowledge from the peasantry and perhaps also from the business community at the top of those waterboards, so that they are actually on that waterboard?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u77	This also depends on the reaction of the parties to abolishing the secure seats with regard to the people who used to sit on those seats. I can very well imagine that these are attractive candidates for different parties as well. For D66 too, there has been a farmer in this Chamber in the past.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u78	Mr Stoffer, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u79	That farmer, I think, has already dropped out of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u80	Um... no!
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u81	No, but that wasn't my question either. Last question. Let's say this goes on right away. Will Mr. Snelter guarantee me that at least 10% of the farmers who are now flying out of the secure seats will of course be in eligible places at Water? Then I'd like to reconsider.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u82	That's a nice opening. I am pleased that Mr Stoffer has also offered a number of openings. I also look forward to his proposals to reduce the number of seats secured. I think the guarantee is that their interests will be heard by Water Of course. That is what I can promise Mr Stoffer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u83	Thank you, Mr. Faster. Then we go to Mr Grinwis, Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u84	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, heartfelt, Mr. Minhas. Not only the waterboards go like a formula 1 car, you too. Congratulations. Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the authors for their initiative. That's commendable. Not only because of the legislative effort, but also because we are allowed to debate the waterboards all evening, perhaps the most beautiful administrative body and public body in our country, at least with the longest history. They are a functional democracy where they not only talk, but where they really do something with an implementation device with employees who really can do something. Mr. Chairman. The fact that the water boards have been in existence for centuries and function well and that the Netherlands is water-safe should not be a reason not to examine existing organisational and administrative structures critically. It is no excuse not to investigate what can be done better and how the waterboards as functional democracies can perform their tasks even better. The fact that the waterboards have a critical role to play over the next 100 years and beyond in this time of changing climate is beyond me. In fact, their task of taking care of the water system and the purification of waste water is becoming more relevant than ever before. Mr. Chairman. Is this the proposal that is going to take us further: to abolish the seats on the waterboards occupied by minorities with a greater interest in and a greater contribution to the work of the waterboards? Does what Mr Bromet and Mr De Groot call "full democratisation" fit in with the functional nature of the waterboard? I have reasonable doubts about that. The ChristianUnion Group sees fundamental differences between a functional body such as the waterscape and territorial decentralised bodies as municipalities and provinces, between the guarantee democracy of the waterscape, with a strong emphasis on expertise and implementation, and the development democracy of municipalities and provinces, with an emphasis on policy development and debate. Think also of the specific legal task of a waterboard, the closed housekeeping and financial self-sufficiency. In the first term, I would like to hear a thorough reflection of the fundamental differences between water authorities on the one hand and municipalities and provinces on the other and what this means for the representation of minority interests. Can they explain why in this legislative proposal they choose only to address the composition of the board of the waterboard? Don't they pull rücksichtslos on one building block from the raggy structure of the waterboards? After all, it is a system of communicating vessels in which the legal task of the waterboard, the manner of representation of interests, institutional organization and taxation are not available separately. Nowhere in the explanatory statement or in the note relating to the report do I read back any of this awareness. Mr. Chairman. One of the arguments put forward by the proposers for abolishing the secure seats is that waterboards are given a new role in the field of climate adaptation. They argue that, because of the general importance of climate adaptation, citizens should be more represented than is currently the case. However, the fact that the water-statistical care of an area.................................................................................................................................................................... Both the proposers and Mr Boelhouwer, in his opinion, seem to assume that the spatial component of the necessary adaptation in water management has become one of the main tasks of the waterboard. Okay, the spatial consequences in times of rapid climate change are greater, but the division of labour between water boards and, for example, municipalities has not changed. Storage areas will soon simply have to be designated as such in a zoning plan or environmental plan. It is precisely the municipal administration that has to balance the general interests and weigh all spatial interests that play a role against each other. The waterboard does not have that competence, given its functional, limited task, and should not make that assessment. By the way, it is wise that such a municipality listens well to the waterboard, but that is something else. In fact, if, in addition to municipal and provincial authorities, the water authorities are also responsible for spatial choices, as colleagues Bromet and De Groot seem to suggest, the system of political responsibility in the eyes of, for example, legal experts such as Landman, Groothuijse and Van Rijswick will only become more diffuse, more complex and less transparent. They also consider that the advent of the Environmental Law, which the applicants use as an argument, does not change that. Water has always been one of the guiding principles of our space, and fortunately we have underlined this in the coalition agreement. Can the proposers clarify exactly what they mean by the statement that the responsibilities and powers of the waterboards have increased? How do they get from there to the abolition of secure seats? Can they comment on the counter-arguments I have just put forward? Mr. Chairman. Then on to the suggestion of the proposers that they want to fully democratize the waterboard, "so that the vested interests of the agricultural sector and industry are balanced fairly against newly created interests surrounding water management." In other words, the proposers argue that the "one man, one vote" principle is in all cases fairer than a system in which specific minority interests are secured. In fact, in the explanatory memorandum, the authors refer to the secure seats as undemocratic. That was quite rightly the case with the Council of State, which states that the proposers "apply a too limited concept of the concept of democracy." I expected an extensive reflection, but the proposers take the definition of "democracy" from the Fat Van Dale. That is why I would like to challenge the proposers with a few questions. Not a bad word about our Fat Van Dale, but come on! Is the "one man, one vote" principle always fairer, more democratic and thus preferable to other systems? An example: the Economic and Social Council, also a functionally decentralised body. Should we always have to change the composition of this, so much more employees and only one or two employers? After all, there are many more employees than employers. In their response to the opinion of the Council of State, the applicants also recognise that the protection of specific interests could be given a role, but make a striking distinction between a national specific interest and an economic specific interest, which would not be justified in securing the latter. Can the applicants comment on this distinction? What do they mean by a "national specific interest" and an "economic specific interest"? Is that religion, gender, profession? Can all the landowners with Frisian roots have a secure seat according to this distinction from the proposers? I would like to receive a clarification.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u85	Thank you. Before you continue: Mr Sneller actually wanted to interrupt on a previous point, but you were so quick...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u86	Mr Grinwis is an experienced politician, who knows: just look down and talk.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u87	Yeah, that's right!
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u88	Pretend you didn't get it. My question was about 'the scope is not getting wider, but the impact is getting bigger'. I would like Mr Grinwis to give a little more consideration to the question which I believe is also before us: whether the impact does not simply change the nature of the decisions taken by the waterboards.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u89	I said the task is not getting bigger, not wider, but more relevant. With the climate changing faster and more impact in our low land by the sea with erratic rivers and drains, that becomes more relevant. Whether it has more impact with that, I need to think about that. The fact is that if water boards need more space, more spatial reservation, they need to go to the municipality to get that anchored in a zoning plan. And the city council and the mayor's and aldermen's college decide on that. Thus, even if it becomes more relevant, the relationship between the task of the water boards and the task of municipalities and provinces and the Empire does not change. So, no, I do not think that is an argument, and I do not agree with that line of reasoning of both the authors and the Boelhouwer Committee, which justifies the abolition of secure seats.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u90	That's the spatial aspect of just the salvage that's needed. But there are, of course, other decisions, which also take waterboards, including those we have exchanged in other debates, which have negative externalities, with all kinds of effects on others that were previously to a lesser extent relevant, and thus have an impact on that broader group which, in my opinion, is, in other words, closer to the general interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u91	Well, first of all, I didn't use that spatial example for nothing, because that also comes back, in my view, the explanatory statement or the note on the report. So it is an example of the reasoning line of the proposers themselves, which is also reflected in the opinion of the Boelhouwer committee; so that's why I used it. Anyway, I don't agree with that in advance. At the same time, as I pointed out in my interruption to Mr Stoffer, I am prepared to look again at whether we have properly regulated this system with secure seats and residents. In 2015, in my opinion, the Water Advisory Committee recommended very good advice, not for nothing, to remove that obligation to have those secured seats on the Executive Board by definition. I'm in favour of that. So I am ready to look again at that relationship between those minority interests, which are still contributing even more and which have a very large impact from decisions by the day-to-day administration and the general administration of the waterboard. But that's different than abolishing them.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u92	Thank you. Finally, Mr Sneller.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u93	That is indeed something else, and yet I cherish the change spirit of the Christian Union on this point. Only the question was, nevertheless, more important: does it not come closer to that general interest? And the fact that Mr Grinwis is running around this in his answer suggests to me that he can see that there are a number of things that waterboards are now deciding, which still have broader consequences for wider groups, where that suit didn't happen 50 years ago. And so there's evidence for this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u94	I do not agree with Mr Sneller. It proves that the task of the waterboard in a rapidly changing climate becomes more relevant. It proves that it is oh so important that we should cherish these functional democracies with a limited functional function, very well defined in Articles 1 (1) and 1 (2) of the Water Authority Act. That is also the profit of this debate. When I just interrupted Mr Sneller, he did not dare to say that these waterboards should indeed be removed, as Mr Schouw suggested here by motion. No, these waterboards are extremely important at a time of a rapidly changing climate, but that does not affect the functional task and the functional democracy of the waterboard.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u95	In fact, I would like to touch on a little further in Mr Grinwis's speech, which was about interests. Of course, we've talked about that before tonight. I would actually like to take up this week's news about the fact that this Minister has indicated that we are not going to make it to the Water Framework Directive in 2027. That is not really news and yet it is still fierce, because it was really presented as a fact. If we look back on the past 20 years, the interests and vested interests in these waterboards and those waterboard seats have in any case not contributed to the achievement of the Water Framework Directive. I wonder if Mr Grinwis agrees with us.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u96	I disagree with Mr Van Esch. I don't agree with her. The functional democracy of the waterboards cannot help it if we take medicines and then they end up in a sewage system and a water treatment system. Waterboards have that water to purify. These days, with sensors and so on, they can measure up to you and me in the bathroom which medicines you and I are taking or are not taking. The same applies to fertilisers, pesticides and plant protection products. Those are rules that we lay down in Europe or as a Empire here. The task of the waterboard is to clean and clean the water, but it is not about which substances we may or may not use.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u97	I wonder if Mr Grinwis would support it if we were simply here to examine how interests and business interests have played a role over the last 20 years, especially in those secure seats. Mr Grinwis is very convinced that it is not.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u98	No, I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u99	I would like to ask the following question. If we are going to table a motion to really examine the interests that have played a part in failing to reach the Water Framework Directive for the next seven years, then I wonder if the Christian Union will support it. I wonder if the answer will remain the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u100	Let's get a nuance. I did not say that the interests would not play a role in how the waterboard is managed here and there. I didn't say that. I said that I did not just go along with the statement that what has happened in the waterboards over the last 20 years would be a reason why we are not going to meet the objectives of the Water Framework Directive in 2027. That's one. Two. Indeed, the fact that in some waterboards there are indeed secure seats and some lists of elected members sit together very quickly and form the administration, and that some of the elected members feel put aside, is indeed a sound that I have heard from a number of Christian Union aquifers. That's not a generic image. This is the case in some waterboards and not in other waterboards. That is why, as far as the Christian Union is concerned, we could, for example, remove the obligation that a secure person should be in such a day-to-day administration.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u101	Mrs Van Esch, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u102	Finally. I would like to add the nuance that I do not think it was only up to the water authorities that we are not going to reach the Water Framework Directive now. If it were that simple, we might have been able to take action by now. So that is absolutely not the case. I think that to a large extent is just the national government here and the coalition that is still being formed, in which water is still far too thinly reflected. But part of it does matter. I stand by it: I am still wondering if we can at least explore why we have not achieved the Water Framework Directive in the last 20 years. We already know that we are not going to make it and why we have been working for 20 years to achieve these goals and now 1% of the water is good. In my opinion, we should at least look in the mirror and also look at how these waterboards are arranged.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u103	What strikes me as one of the most obvious political discussions in which interests can play a role is the discussion around "function follows level" or "level follows function." But what exactly are in that water is determined at a different level. So that really is a distinction in the Water Framework Directive. Think of the peat meadow area, for example, when discussing "function follows level" or "level follows function." Moreover, I believe that we should take strategic decisions on this matter at national level. But you could say that there are certain interests, with right and reason, by the way. But with the Water Framework Directive, I find it really too short to say: because we have secure seats, we do not get to the Water Framework Directive, and I am sure that you will not say that either, or at least most of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u104	Let me be just as positive with you towards Mr Grinwis, Mr President. I think it is really positive that the Christian Union is opening up that mandatory secure seat in the executive board, to look at it differently. However, I do find it interesting to get a more detailed explanation that you think differently about that secure seat in the executive board than in the general administration. Would you like to explain a little more about what this great distinction is for you in terms of importance?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u105	We speak here in a general democracy, with dualism between Chamber and Cabinet, with opposition and coalition, and we enjoy the debate. A waterboard is a functional democracy, monistically organized, in which, if it works a bit well, all members of the general government have an influence on the performance of the functional tasks. We have that as an opposition and a coalition, of course, but here it is something else. So there are also examples of water boards in which there is supposedly an administrative agreement, in which all general members participate. In this sense, the involvement of the general members in the Executive Board, and thus in the policy or in the performance of the tasks of the Water Authority, has been secured. So I think it is very important that minority interests, which are affected by the size of the land and by the extent to which they are affected by the decisions of the waterboard... Think of nature reserves and peasants. But I also mention the tax contribution: an average farm still pays ten times as much tax as a multi-person household. As long as there are such relationships, I think it is very important that these minority interests are secured through a secure seat. So I am referring in particular to nature and farmers. About companies, the advisory committee says, "Do it." Bulhouwer says in his relapse option, "Don't do it." But I think it's very important that they're secured.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u106	I do find it interesting to see that just board members with secure seats also look each other up much more and form groups together. So you'd almost say they're already going through some kind of democratisation process. Doesn't that mean that they can also serve the interests well? Can you not see that opening towards the general administration in that, because they themselves are moving a bit in that direction?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u107	I really don't see it that way. What is going on in practice, with the formation of a group, the formation of a daily administration and so on, is essentially not decisive for the position of the Christian Union's group on this issue. In view of the functional task of democracy, we believe that the limited task of the waterboard as defined in the Water Authority Act and the specific interests involved, is entirely justified in organising it with secure seats. At the same time, the Christian Union Group is ready to review certain issues that may have been dealt with in this way for a very long time. As an example, I mentioned this obligation in the Executive Board.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u108	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u109	Mr. Chairman. Let's see where I left off. The applicants also argue that the trits interests, payments and control no longer apply, as residents now pay 80% of the water system tax. But this answer is an argument for keeping the secured seats in a waterboard, isn't it? As an example, the Delfland High Council with its 30 seats, of which 6 seats are secured. After all, farmers still pay ten times as much tax as a multi-person household. In 2020, a multi-person household paid €333 and an agricultural holding paid €3.385. Or do the proposers also want to align rates with this proposal? I understand that in some waterboards some groups feel hostage to the unhealthy symbiosis that may exist between some of the secured and some of the political lists. That's what I said a little bit. Mr Madlener also mentioned it. That's a really serious point. But we can tackle that. I will come back to that in a moment. But with "one man, one vote" specific interests just snow under. There's nothing more honest about that. Nota bene even the report of the Boelhouwer committee finds enough ground to keep secure seats for at least farmers and nature. Mr. Chairman. Then what is it? Climate change is indeed making the waterboard's task more relevant. Is this not precisely a question of governance in which all the interests involved in the tasks are represented? In addition to the general interest, this problem also affects those specific interests. For example, persistent drought or rain has a major impact on the work of farmers and in nature reserves. I have already pointed out that the concerns of the proposers are not entirely directed towards deaf ears. The Christian Union also recognizes the concerns of practice, such as the unhealthy blockage. As far as my group is concerned, we are therefore removing the obligation that one of the members of the Executive Board should be removed from the secure seats. That obligation is not necessary in order to make the protected interest well known in the waterboard. And we can also adjust the number of guards and their distribution, either in line with the AcW or in line with Bulhouwer's relapse option. I am therefore considering bringing forward amendments in this direction. But first of all, of course, I am very curious about the responses of the authors to my group's questions. Mr President, so far.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u110	Thank you. Then I will go to Mr Van der Molen of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u111	Mr. Chairman. The Chamber has been talking about the secure seats for years. Perhaps the proposers have just thought: if you talk about it long enough, then it becomes a good idea. However, the CDA believes that something that is crooked cannot, by definition, be talked straight. But let me first of all thank the proposers for putting their time and energy into making an initiative law. Maybe just another one in a row. I know that's a lot of work. Mr. Chairman. Waterboards are vital. Our country is largely below sea level. And yet we take it for granted that we have dry feet. Our way of life leads to pollution. And yet we take it for granted that clean drinking water comes from the tap. Perhaps this self-evidentity is the best advertising for the proper functioning of the water boards in the Netherlands. Do these initiators share that perception? The CDA Group agrees with the initiators that it is not a good idea to abolish the waterboards and transfer the water tasks to the provinces. The water boards are classified on the basis of river basins for a reason. The water interest is therefore not organised separately for nothing. Waterscapes form a functional government with a defined task and provinces have a much broader range of tasks. Can the initiators explain why the water authority should be put together in the same way as the county administration? In fact, the Council of State kindly points out to the proposers that there is nothing undemocratic about the secure seats. The protection of minorities or specific interests can also play a role in the composition of the administration. It happens in more places. So the waterboards aren't a strange duck in the bite at all. Let me give an example to the authors. A waterscape consists of a city of 100 inhabitants and the surrounding countryside. There's only one farmer in that country. Is it then fairer to make decisions by half plus one, or is it fairer to ensure that the farmer, whose farm can be directly affected by the decisions of the water authority, sits at the table of that water authority? Or is it "release 100 people and the farmer falls"? Mr. Chairman. Waterboards are collaborations. The task of the water boards is largely executive. The parties with the secure seats are closely involved. 60% of the water system is physically maintained by farmers and other land managers. Half of farmers take super-legal measures to improve water quality. The proper functioning of the water boards is partly due to the involvement of the secured parties. According to the CDA Group, the separation between implementation and politics that is now being proposed does not lead to solutions. How do the initiators see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u112	Does the CDA believe that only sick people are allowed to vote on care?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u113	No, because people who are healthy might want to take advantage of that same care at a later date. So I do not know why there should be an exception.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u114	Can only physicists and chemists vote on and have a say in how we deal with chemicals?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u115	The same answer would apply, but of course with a different circumstance. No, these kinds of issues naturally have a broader consideration. In a general democracy, as we have it here, it is fine for people to talk about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u116	Mrs Maatoug, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u117	The debate is precisely about this broader consideration. My question is: could the CDA state in the argument why the broader balance cannot be achieved just as well through general members, by unanimous vote? Or that would be my hypothesis, isn't the CDA trusting the voter?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u118	Your thesis is that it is here that there is no reason to represent certain groups. Given the functional nature of the waterboard and the interrelated nature of the implementation, but also the impact of the waterboard decisions on, for example, the agricultural group, I think it is very logical that this representativeness has been shaped in this way in that administration. But you make it look like the secured seats at water boards determine just about everything. Of course it isn't. If the situation were that there was a force majeure of secure seats in the waterboards, which would determine very specific interests, you would have had a point of criticism. But the situation is very different. There is a modest number of secured seats at a waterboard. This means that we can guarantee representativeness and benefit from the specific knowledge of these groups, while at the same time making an overall assessment. The interests of a farmer are not necessarily opposed to the interests of a citizen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u119	I hear Mr van der Molen say: yes, but the waterboard has a great deal of influence on the farmland and on the way farmers can farm. I have reason to believe that we have quite a lot of influence from the House of Representatives, for example on nitrogen. If Mr Van der Molen agrees with me that it is so important that this farmer should be represented in the waterboard, does the CDA think that this farmer should also be represented here in the House of Representatives? We are also talking here about the interests of farmers, about our food safety and about the problem of nitrogen. If it applies to the waterboard, why shouldn't it apply here to the House of Representatives?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u120	In the answer of both Mr Grinwis and Mr Stoffer, I agree that it is perfectly justifiable to choose a different establishment for these two governments, a functional government and a general government. I think that the good thing about this system is that the secure seats ensure that parties involved in both the execution and the balancing and the impact of the balancing on their immediate interest have a place at the table; that is well arranged. At the same time, we see that waterboards can also freely make trade-offs that may not be directly related to that interest. So I am not at all concerned about that democratic importance. However, I am concerned that parties that are needed for the implementation and parties that have a legitimate interest in being presented will be removed from the board by this bill. That's not what I'm for; that's not what the CDA's for.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u121	That is not in itself an answer to the question I am asking. I think I hear Mr Van der Molen say: it is very important that we keep farmers in the daily administration or in the general administration of the waterboard, because it is about them and their interests. I hear an example of 100 inhabitants in relation to one farmer, which is about the importance of that one farmer. If the CDA thinks so, then the CDA should agree that we should do so here, when it comes to the nitrogen crisis, or that we should do so in the European Union, when it comes to... What is the difference? If it is so important to represent the interests of farmers in this way... I still don't hear what the difference is and why that of the CDA shouldn't be in the Lower House.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u122	This question is repeated, but there is the assumption that I would argue that the waterboard as a whole should be made up of farmers, because all the considerations that the waterboard must make, about dike strengthening, water level or water cleaning should serve only the interests of farmers. That's not my point. The point of the CDA is that there is a legitimate interest and that there is a legitimate position to get this group at least through a secure seat at the decision-making table. In our view, that is the task and the view of the waterboard. This has been proven, and I agree with other speakers, in the past. Does that mean they have a decisive vote? No, they didn't. In view of the impact of the decisions taken by the waterboard, are we obligated that they can participate directly in the conversation? Sure. That is why I call for the secure seats to be retained.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u123	Thank you. You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u124	The Boelhouwer Committee states that it is possible, within the defined terms of reference of the waterboards, to identify specific interests in the performance of the task. The representatives of these interests could get a place on the board. That's the way it's always been. It can have a positive impact on the implementation of the work of the waterboard, the choices that need to be made and the support needed for this. Do the initiators subscribe to the analysis of the Boelhouwer Commission? The Boelhouwer Committee believes that there is a good basis for the unbuilt category of farm entrepreneurs and the category of nature reserve. For example, farmers are heavily dependent on good water management for their functioning. They also make an important contribution to current and future water management with land. The same applies to nature reserve managers. Do the initiators share the committee's assessment? Then why do they propose to delete the secure seats for these categories as well? Aren't we gonna throw away the baby with the bathwater? Mr. Chairman. With fine words such as "democratisation" and "modernisation," the initiators conceal that their proposal is very radical. Have they considered alternatives? Have they considered limiting the categories of interest? Have they considered adjusting the number of secure seats? How do they assess the recommendation of the Boelhouwer Commission to the waterboards to exchange the direct democratic influence of groups with direct interests for forms of participation, such as customer panels, advisory councils and seats in advisory committees or sounding board groups in specific projects? Isn't trading in direct democracy for talk clubs too crazy for words? Mr. Chairman. The initiators aim to ensure that their proposal enters into force before the waterboard elections of 2023. The CDA Group wonders whether this has taken into account the pathways for recruitment and selection of candidate waterboard drivers. Are the initiators realizing that the first talks with trust committees have already been planned? According to the proposers of good governance, does it testify to change the rules of the game during the game? Mr. Chairman. A waterboard is a functional democracy and it will remain so. At a time when it is beginning to appear that farmers and nature organisations are only meeting with governments before the courts or on the Malieveld, it is not obvious for the CDA to dismantle the place where farmers and citizens make decisions together with knowledge, skills and support. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u125	Thank you very much. I saw Mr. De Hoop. You didn't want to interrupt? No? Then Mr. Sneller, D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u126	I had another question about a motion from the CDA, the Geurts motion, which I encountered a few times in the written preparation of this debate. That motion actually says: the tasks of waterboards, especially when it comes to combating water pollution, have become so urgent because of the extreme weather that we need to be able to use the general means to cover them, because what the waterboards themselves collect is not enough. What does this motion say, according to the CDA representative, about becoming more general about the management of the waterboards?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u127	I do not see that there is an overall change in the nature of the management of the waterboards when there is a discussion on how we would do the financing. The fact that the waterboard itself is able to regulate its own financing through levies is, of course, one point. I think Mr Geurts's point is that the urgency is so great, as is the pace at which we need to intervene, that we could find more unorthodox ways of filling the financial problem and its gap. I think one of the considerations has been that it might lead to undesirable situations at a time when waterboards should only finance it by increasing the charges. But whether this changes the nature of the waterboard in such a way that the secured seats should disappear, I don't think.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u128	It wasn't my question to go this far. However, it does indicate that, given the changed circumstances, the tasks of the waterboard sometimes go beyond what the waterboards can do in this case.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u129	I do not see the direct link that an increase in the general budget is an immediate increase in the general interest. You're trying to see a relationship between them that I don't think there is. I agree with Mr Grinwis' comment on the same type of question, namely that the function of the waterboard has become more urgent. This means that there are new challenges within the tasks they have, which should actually be addressed in the same way. Water storage is, of course, the perfect example of this. Water boards have been working on this for years, and they are now seeing a development that they need to create much more structures, where they have to store large amounts of water in a short time. Within what they've always done, they have to make different choices now. I believe that these other choices should be made by the general administration of the waterboard. I certainly think it is justified that there should be parties there who have a legitimate interest and therefore, by definition, should be heard through secure seats.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u130	Finally, Mr Sneller.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u131	I think Mr Grinwis said "more relevant," Mr Van der Molen says "urgenter." What matters in this case is that it is said that these waterboards have tasks where we can no longer rely solely on the collection of taxes by the waterboards themselves. We must add a subsidy from the general budget, which is much wider in scope. Mr Van der Molen should think so too.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u132	I want to think about everything, but I do not know the exact context of the wider debate on the basis of which this motion was tabled. Suppose there is an urgency and, for example, there has to be an acceleration in tasks. If you do not want the charges to rise so that you would dwindle the taxpayer, then I do not see that, in such a situation, the general funds are also being used. But that will exceptionally be the case. Indeed, the task of the waterboard becomes more urgent and therefore more relevant. Therefore, they will have to make other considerations in the choices they have to make when it comes to high tide and dike strengthening. All these things play along, but that's really not gonna change the nature of the waterboard. This is the chance for an institution that has been around for hundreds of years to show once again that this is not the most normal thing in the world, but actually just the cork on which we float together.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u133	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mrs Maatoug, GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u134	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The final debate before the recess. It's a very special debate. First of all, my congratulations to Mr Minhas, who is already busy sharing pieces, as he is used to. It is also a special debate because we are talking about an initiative law. That is always a special moment and I would also like to congratulate colleagues in trade union K and wish them every success. A number of very difficult questions have been asked and I am very curious to hear the answer. From here on at least compliment us on the fact that we are here and for the work so far. We do not talk about the waterboards every day. I certainly do not speak as a substitute today, even though they are the oldest democratic layer of government in our country. More colleagues have already referred to it. In preparation for this debate, I have re-examined the rich history of the waterboards. I also found that in the year 1255 it was mentioned earlier, in the maiden speech of a colleague, for example, the first watership was officially founded by Count Willem II of Holland. This concerned the High Authority of Rhineland, a waterboard that still exists. The coincidence is that I myself am a resident of this waterboard. I recommend that everyone drive along the headquarters in Leiden: beautiful architecture, which is still there. It's very nice. There's nodding. It's beautiful, isn't it? Yes. Over the centuries, the water boards have been given a prominent role in our order as the administrative layer. In the famous 1848 Constitution, they were given a place in our constitution for the first time. At first almost every area had its own waterboard, but over time, as with the municipalities, it has become less and less. So after all, that change we talked about today. At the moment there are 21 water boards. These 21 water boards carry out important tasks in the areas of water management and water quality. Without the work of water boards, many people would not be able to keep dry feet in heavy rain and farmers and nature would not have enough water in periods of drought. Without the work of the water boards, our water would not be of sufficient quality. Without the work of the water boards, the waste water would not be purified. In short, this layer of governance we're talking about tonight is doing a lot of important work. Still, we don't always see this as well. This may also be because they often just do their job well. We are not going to know how important the work is until the work is not done properly. The directors of the water boards, which the bill we are discussing today, often only come into view when there are problems with too much or too little water. We all remember the terrible images of the floods in Limburg last summer. Then we saw the directors in the media and it became clear to a larger audience how important the work of the waterboards is. Mr. Chairman. The bill we are discussing today is therefore about the boards of these water boards, the boards that represent the people's representatives of the inhabitants of the water boards, all of us. Those governments, unlike those of provinces and municipalities, are still a little stuck in bygone times in terms of composition, is the opinion of my group: in times when it was not the electorate who decided who was to sit on the parliament, but people who paid for it decide how the parliament is to be composed. This bill is designed to change that. We in the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance are very pleased with this, because GroenLinks trusts the electorate. At present, the general boards of the water boards consist of elected and secured seats. The elected seats are manned with candidates elected in general elections. The secure seats are manned with representatives of the agricultural organisations, the farms and the nature organisations. At least one of the secure seats shall be held on the daily boards formed after the elections. As a result, the minority of the secured seats always has a place in the coalition. That too is a strange figure. I am very pleased with the movement that the Christian Union Group has shown on this issue today. There are also colleagues who say that all of this is logical and historically explainable. To Mr Minhas, whom I just congratulated, I would like to say that beware that liberalism does not suddenly become conservatism, because that movement sometimes happens to make people quick. In 2022, we still see a layer of government where people's representatives are not fully democratically elected. How would we feel if a fixed number of seats were reserved here in the Lower House for companies like Shell or Unilever? Go, flats, some seats for them or for any other category of organizations, decided in advance. If anyone imagined that, everyone would be wondering if we didn't end up in a Spell message. I'm not that experienced yet, so I'm not gonna read through people walking into the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u135	Very good. Mr Minhas, VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u136	Mrs Maatoug is triggering me. I had my maiden speech, so I decided not to get up too much. You respected me and didn't interrupt me, so I also intended not to interrupt too many people. But you're triggering me, so I just stood here anyway. The difference between waterboards on the one hand and the Chamber, municipalities and provinces on the other is, of course, that waterboards are a functional democracy. I hear a lot of parties this evening talking about farmers and farmers, but those categories that are represented are obviously much wider. Those aren't just farmers. This is also about companies and nature reserve managers. They have a very big interest. These land managers can't vote on their own. Farmers have a very large area. They're in smaller numbers, so they can't just be represented. What is your answer to those farmers and those companies who cannot vote for themselves, but who do have a very great interest in ensuring that this water supply is properly controlled, as we have been doing for 800 years in a functional democracy?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u137	I have three answers to that. The first answer is that all these people can vote, because they are also citizens in this country. That's answer one. For the second answer, I refer to the AcW report, which states that the justification of the secured seats for companies, for example, was no longer valid in 2015. I think that is one of the reasons why we are talking a little less about these categories in the debate. The third reason was precisely my point in the interruption debate earlier with Mr Stoffer on the interests of farmers. I also think it is important, as do the broader interests of food, for example, as my colleague from BBB pointed out in the debate on the interruption. I am defending the public interest here. The weighting of the conversation and that functional board layer will be improved if you broaden. Why? That means you can weigh all the interests. A general interest is not a pre-established interest. I think that arguments are so good, as in Limburg, that people are very aware of what is going on. You can tell people that. GroenLinks trusts the citizen. You can make this part of that election. So I think the outcome will be: good choices in the waterboards, with all directly elected people.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u138	Does GroenLinks therefore believe that farmers and companies should make the same financial contribution to waterboards as all other residents?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u139	We do that more often in debates. What I love is that we have different levels of government. That's interesting. I have looked into this debate very briefly, or for a little longer. The tax system of the water boards is a very interesting debate. I have two answers to this. The first is a direct question to the Minister. I am very curious to see what is actually going on with the discussion on this tax system. I understand you're working on that and you're going to inform the Chamber about it. The answer to my colleague is as follows. I think this is about how we want decisions on water boards to be made. That is what this debate is about. I do not really have a position on the tax system of water boards or on the financial basis. I am very curious about the information that the Minister is going to send to the Chamber and to this committee. Maybe I like it so much that I'm going to ask my colleague if I can replace her more often in this cozy committee on water.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u140	We're gonna see. Finally, Mr Minhas.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u141	I think that's a little too easy. Mrs Maatoug, I ask you a question and you pass it to the Minister. You have an opinion on the bill. You're in favour of it. You say: let's completely democratize it. I get that. I admire that very much. I just think you should think about the consequences. If you say that these farmers should also be able to vote, then the consequences are among other things... Those farmers have a big interest. That's what they pay for, and that's what they have control of. Those are the secure seats. My question to you is: do you think we should also have a different financial contribution for those farmers? I haven't heard an answer to that. I have the next follow-up question to ask you. If you say that this means something to the financial system, then I say: what is your answer to the question of how we will organise that financial system according to GroenLinks? My question to you is this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u142	All through the chairman, I think. Right? Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u143	I am very pleased that Mr Minhas has stood up for interruptions. The debate is getting so much more fun. I'm thinking two answers now. The first answer is: this bill is not about funding. This bill is about how you make decisions. I'm in the middle of my input on that right now. I put the question to the Minister because there is another investigation going on. We are informed as a Chamber about this other discussion about the financing and taxation of water boards. The second part is very interesting; I also like it. I wish I lived in the world of Mr Minhas, namely that my group had more than eight seats. And that if I take an opinion and take a position, that's the opinion of the country. That is exactly the debate we are having today. 'Cause that's not my call. That's what the waterboard's about. The waterboard is about the positions. You ask GroenLinks what the consequences of this bill are going to be. To be quite honest, I hope: a good democratic debate and a good and better turnout. I also have a question for the Minister. Eventually, it's from waterboard to waterboard. That's another democratic layer, because of what they're voting there. Those are the outcomes, not what I find. What I do think is that we all have to choose and that in this way you are the best guarantor of the public interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u144	The turnout in the waterboard elections is now determined by the First Chamber, you might say. But that aside. My question is another one. Mrs Maatoug made a comparison between Shell and farmers. I think that comparison is flawed for a lot of reasons. I'm having a little trouble comparing oil to food and landscape. Anyway, shit, let me go with that equation. How much tax did Shell pay in recent years?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u145	Mr Grinwis is doing that nicely. In fact, I should have given an example, perhaps that would have been a very nice world, that we would have had to fill this room with secured workers' seats, because the state treasury is indeed mostly filled by income tax. I wish this were the outcome. You're making me doubt it now. What would the Chamber have been nice if most of it consisted of hardworking Dutch and workers. Maybe that left flank would have been filled a little richer! The point of the example is that you give a specific interest a fixed seat. I grabbed the Spell message, so I increased it. I don't care what importance that is. The point is that all interests are important. I have also indicated the farmers' interest. In an interruption debate with Mr Stoffer, I also indicated that I hope knowledge of the facts is preserved, that it will be on lists, that parties want to have them and that people will continue to offer themselves, especially in a general sense. This ensures that there is high quality in the general debate of all elected members of the water boards.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u146	Thank you for this beautiful answer, but the comparison is still a bit limp. An average agricultural holding pays ten times as much tax to the waterboard as a multi-person household. If you compare that to Shell, that's obviously a huge difference. If you then consider that the farmers and nature cover on average about 60% of the site and that a physical decision, because water management is about the physical environment, affects them disproportionately or can affect them very much in their interest, then we really have a difference of opinion as to why secure seats should or should not have a place in the general administration. I would like to give you that, precisely because the Christian Union Group really sees waterboards as independent functional democracies in the future. At GroenLinks, I read in the election programme: let's turn these waterboards into climateships. Surely this proposal is in line with a different vision of the future of the waterboards and cannot be seen in isolation?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u147	There are a lot of debates on waterboards. Reference has also been made to previous proposals in other debates. I am also starting to think more and more often: I am going to replace Mr Bromet more often in this nice committee. The answer is that we are not afraid of the electorate. The position, also here in the Chamber, was: if we do that, that interest will no longer be represented, because we are afraid that the electorate will not see the interests of the farmer. That's not how we see it. Mr Stoffer was a good example. I do not think that Mr Stoffer is going to go to the waterboard every time to see whether the minutes of the sitting are public, whether he can ask them and say: let us increase those taxes. That's not how it works. We believe that if you democratize, you will have a better balance of interests in general, it will be more democratic, and we think it is better to weigh up the interests of the farmers, who you consider so important, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u148	I think that if you look at the minutes anywhere, Mr Stoffer has called more often to lower taxes than to increase them. So you know where I am. But that's not my question. There was once a time when GroenLinks wanted to place the watership tasks at the province. It is worth complimenting, as I said a moment ago, that people are now looking at this differently. My question to Mrs Maatoug is: why has that view changed?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u149	Thank you for this question. That was a moving insight. One of these insights is that the waterboards are only becoming more important. We also see this with the Environment Act that comes in and the functionality that extends it. It is important to keep that low, but with the adjustment that it is more democratic. You are absolutely right: we had a different understanding and that has changed. That's how we do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u150	Then my question is: what would it take to get that last piece of insight to hold those secured seats in that waterboard?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u151	And I hope that after this flaming speech Mr Stoffer thought: I am changing my mind. To be quite honest, I have spent the last two weeks looking into this bill, but the colleagues in Box K who submitted it have, of course, been working on it for a long time. I have weighed the arguments very well, and so have my group. I have already asked you in the interrupting debate what the weighting of these different arguments is. The longer I am in the debate, the more I am, and that is really the takeaway for me: do you trust the electorate's assessment and do you trust the choices that are being made? Because either it's true that if we do this, the whole waterboard will change or there will be completely different choices. This would mean that a select group now has too much interest and the general interest would not be properly weighed. Or it's not really that dramatic and we're just going to see that we're going to have a more democratic body where externalities are better weighed, where we're going to look more closely, where a large group of people participate and where we're actually only getting better decisions, without the dramatic consequences that are being anticipated.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u152	Mr Stoffer, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u153	I just indicated where my fear lies. I know Mrs Maatoug as someone who always says: fight injustice. I have just been weighing it up again, but what I fear is that farmers will be literally under water, because they are no longer looking at their importance of exactly how the level is going to be, with agriculture and food. But also figuratively, because what's going to happen? Eventually, the burden for that agricultural group, which owns very large parts of land, also goes up. You may look at it differently, but I'm afraid that injustice is about to happen. And how are we going to ensure that these farmers are not simply driven to despair?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u154	So I really don't share that statement. What we really disagree on is whether you consider it desirable that it be democratic or not. You did the same, and I asked you at the time: don't make a false contradiction, as if the electorate didn't see this interest, as if people couldn't weigh this interest, as if the people sitting there as a general board member didn't. The idea that the result of giving up secure seats is that everyone goes under water and that we are not going to look at that level of water at all and at the interests of, for example, farmers or farms, I find a statement that I am not going to be under. Period.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u155	You will continue your speech. It is a very nice debate, but in view of the time, I would like to ask the people who interrupt and the people who answer to it to do it more compactly. No matter how beautiful it is, I'm gonna say it. Mrs Maatoug.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u156	We just don't want to go to the recess, Chairman! We want that agenda... No, we just want to talk about water boards for a long time. I'm going on, Mr President, and I'm going to see if I can be shorter, because I've just mentioned many of the points I wanted to make. Not only the initiators and a number of parties here in the Chamber believe that the water authority should become more democratic. This was also the view of the Boelhouwer Committee, which, in its report Geborgd, looked extensively at the functioning of the waterboard management structure. Her conclusion was also that it makes sense to abolish the secure seats and to elect the boards directly. Water boards carry out water management tasks. As I said, they provide water management. They are responsible for water quality and water purification. Well, I think we already said this. 'Cause what are they looking at? How high should the waterboard tax be? How high should the water level be? How to deal with other areas How is soil descent and subsidence handled? How is water quality guaranteed? Where should the excess rainwater be collected? These are all political choices made by the waterboard leaders for and on behalf of the inhabitants of the waterboard. When we look at the different water boards, we also see that different choices are made. So it matters who's on the board. Oh, there's been quite a leap in my time! Very good. I'm gonna skip all this. I'm gonna skip the last piece and I'm gonna go ask the proposers my questions. If this bill is adopted, the minimum number of seats will remain the same. And if I understand correctly, this could lead to a few waterboards leaving fewer than 18 seats. That's right, that's how I ask the initiators. My second question, Mr President. Can the initiators indicate how the function of water boards has changed and how the function extension took place? And can the proposers also indicate what the Environmental Law means for the waterboards? My final question to the proposers. Why did you not choose to include in the law the size of the board of the water boards, as indicated by the Boelhouwer Committee? And to the Minister. I very much underline Mr Sneller's question on how we can increase the turnout rates in the waterboard elections. It was my first election in 2008. I remember it well. I've got the flyers and the flyers in a drawer somewhere! I talked to all my friends about it, and nobody was interested. And I was very sorry about that, because this deserves more attention.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u157	Thank you. A brief question from Mr Grinwis.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u158	Mrs Maatoug's last words, of course, invite us to start a discussion on the list system at all. I will not do that, because my question concerns one of the practical questions that Mrs Maatoug asked. She asked if there was a need for a transitional provision, at least I can translate it, to prevent waterboards from diving below the legal minimum number of 18 seats. Mrs Maatoug asks the question to the proposers, but what is her idea to solve it? Does she have an amendment in the pen, because we need transitional rights?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u159	I looked at my experienced colleague, Mr Grinwis, and he said: first I look at the answer and then I look at how I proceed in parliamentary activity.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u160	Thank you very much. Then I'll go to Mrs. Van Esch, Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u161	Thank you, Mr President. I shall begin by congratulating Mr Minhas, whom I have already seen in several debates in committee. So I can really have a debate with him for the first time in plenary. Congratulations on the first debate here! Mr. Chairman. I would like to begin by commending and thanking the initiators who are here tonight and their support behind them. I'm grateful to them for the moment we're here together. There is often talk about the administration of the land, but we rarely talk about the administration of water, while good water management is certainly vital in our country. Good water management affects people's immediate safety and protects against too much water from the sea, river or air. But good water management also affects people's indirect safety. Is my house gonna stay level or will my foundation slow down? Is there still sufficient drinking water in the future in the event of drought? Let us not forget how water management affects animals and nature. Can the salmon still swim up the river or have we imposed too many impenetrable blockades? Does the eel still know how to reach our waters? How do we stop the desiccation of our most important natural areas? These are political problems for which the waterboard must have the solution. Today, as far as we are concerned, there is a new page in the discussion on how to compile these waterboards. As far as the Animal Party is concerned, we are moving towards a fully democratic form for waterboards. Secured seats are unfair and unnecessary. From now on, we will leave the electorate to decide how the country and how the water is to be run. I know: the comparison has been made here a few times tonight, and yet I do it again. Because how crazy would it be if we had Natural Monuments here in the Chamber, or if we gave a number of seats to VNO-NCW or to the LTO, or if we even had the LTO or VNO-NCW deliver a number of ministers, who would join the Council of Ministers? As far as we are concerned, the political choices in a waterboard also call for a fully democratically elected waterboard. As far as the Animal Party is concerned, therefore, farms or farmers are no longer given preferential treatment. If they want to be elected, they can also run for election. In addition to this position of principle, we have other important reasons for supporting this complete democratisation. First of all, from the analysis of the current administration at the moment. In the opinion of my group, the power of business interests weighs too much and too much. I would like to illustrate this with a number of examples tonight. This week, the Minister for Infrastructure and Water State indicated that achieving the objectives of the Water Framework Directive by 2027 will not actually succeed. It should make us think why we will not even achieve a broad shared goal of clean and healthy water 27 years after the Water Framework Directive has been devised. He's 20 years old now, and we won't make it to him in seven years. So you might ask yourself whether it helps that those interests are so strongly represented, not only in the waterboard, but certainly there as well. I would also like to mention the following example. In the Netherlands, for example, cleanups are regularly organized along the Meuse. Thousands of volunteers will then leave the banks of the Meuse to clean up plastic waste. This is a very good example of the social involvement of citizens, businesses and civil society organisations that do so together. At the same time, however, the Water Board of Limburg grants a licence to Chemelot to discharge 14,000 kilograms of microplastics into the same river, a river which, in fact, is made up of drinking water from which millions of people drink in the Netherlands. I can only explain that here is disproportionately attached to the importance of that company, and that is directly at the expense of citizens and nature. Let me be honest: it is not said that the abolition of the secure seats will automatically improve. Here in the House of Representatives, decisions are also made on a regular basis that are bad for our nature and bad for our environment, but if we abolish the secure seats, it will happen democratically and without unfair voting relations. The second reason I would also like to give has been mentioned before this evening: climate change. As far as we are concerned, the waterboards have certainly been given a task. In addition to their responsibility for water safety and quality, they are becoming increasingly important for climate adaptation. The question for the coming decades is how we will adapt to the effects of climate change. That question is becoming increasingly urgent and affects everyone. The elderly person in the nursing home who might die because of the increasing heat waves we see in the Netherlands. The inhabitants of the Geul valley during a flood. That's what we've seen. But also that fish, like the brookprick, that's stuck in that dried up stream. How we deal with water is crucial to dampen the effects on humans and animals. All citizens, represented by self-elected representatives of the people, will have to face these new challenges together, weighing up all the interests involved. It would be unfair if vested interests could continue to turn the administration into their own hands. Mr. Chairman. As far as we are concerned, it is actually clear. So was the Boelhouwer committee. I quote from the report: 'The Committee recommends that the system of secure seats within the waterboard be abolished'. The only questions that we as Party for Animals still have for the proposers are therefore the following. Can they outline what is about the deadline on which this bill must have been dealt with in the First Chamber in order to be applicable to the waterboard elections in 2023? And is it known to these initiators whether there are people who sit on a secure seat, but at the same time are also connected to a political party? I wonder what the proposers think of such a construction. Finally. We have seen a significant increase in the tax burden on citizens in recent times due to the increased WPA values, but the most recent figure we know is currently coming from 2018. Do the initiators know what the impact of the explosive increase in value on the housing market in recent years has been? Indeed, it seems likely that citizens will have paid much more waterboard taxes in recent years, but that they may have had less, or at least less, participation. I wonder if these initiators can tell me more about this. Then I shall conclude, Mr President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u162	I have a question about a question that Mrs Van Esch asked the initiators. That was as if it were not strange that a person who is part of the board of a waterboard on a secure seat would also be a member of a political party. Do you think that's incompatible? Can someone who is a member of any political party not take a secure seat?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u163	I think it is very undesirable that at the moment when someone is taking the place of a secure seat, who is openly presenting himself to a particular party during elections, for example with election boards in gardens. I do not think that is desirable in our democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u164	You do not think that in a democracy the freedom of someone who has a secure seat on the title of the nomination of an organisation? That should waive all his or her democratic rights outside, such as being members of a party? Does party color confession make anyone unfit for a secure seat?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u165	I think it is desirable that, if you take a secure seat from your position, you do not start to express yourself from a specific color of a party at that time. I am now trying to shape it very cryptically, because it is, of course, a specific party that I believe Mr Van der Molen is standing up for. I do not think that is desirable. It's okay. I would not table any amendments or motions to change it either. I'm just saying that I don't think this kind of construction, in which you're sitting in a waterboard through a secure seat and then you're going to actively express yourself for a specific party, is desirable. I think that, once again, is an additional reason to say: let's stop with the secure seats.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u166	Thank you. Then we'll go to Mr. De Hoop, PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u167	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Let me begin by congratulating Mr Minhas. For more than a year now, we have crossed swords on various parts. I've already gotten to know you quite well as a Member of Parliament, but such a maiden speech also shows more of your history. I thought it was a wonderful story. I wish you every success in the coming period. Thank you for sharing your history. Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands is not doing well in terms of water. The quality of the waters is dramatic. The Cabinet recognizes that now too. We are not going to meet the targets in the Water Framework Directive by 2027. There is also much to be done to prepare the Netherlands for climate change. In the coming years, we must respond to the inevitable rise in sea levels, long periods of drought and the increasing risk of high tide. The answers to these questions and the role of the waterboards in them are based on policy and therefore also on political choices. Think of the height of the water level, the construction of nature-friendly shores or the approach to polluting behaviour. So these political choices also require a democratic foundation in which no business interests are secured, but the social interest. I hear from fellow members of the waterboards how board members with a secure seat have been holding each other for decades, sometimes even forming groups, and usually gathering together with political parties who also vigorously defend the interests of farmers and businesses. I also hear a great deal of annoyance about the compulsory secure seat on the executive board. There is an unelected director who can veto policy changes. In any case, I am pleased that this is also a point that has been raised today. I am also pleased that, for example, the Christian Union is moving in that direction. The present system of secure seats is a remnant of the past which, as far as the Labour Party is concerned, simply does not belong in a modern democracy, especially if those secure seats can stand in the way of necessary innovations. It is undemocratic, distorted relations that allow for the level of groundwater to be kept far too low in some places, for example, which puts agriculture at the expense of nature, peat oxidation and housing degradation. Of course it is good to make use of the knowledge of farmers and farms, but this can only be done purely if, as in the House of Representatives, it is done through an elected parliament. I think, and I am convinced, that interest groups can find their way to the administration of water boards. But if these secure seats were abolished, it would be good if water boards were helped by the Empire or by the Province to set up advisory councils, sounding board groups or other forms of participation. These are also essential opportunities to contribute to the democratic system. Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the initiators for submitting this proposal, which is an important step in increasing the democratic legitimacy of the waterboards. Interest groups play a social role by informing directors and politicians, but should not be at the root of the Labour Party itself. I hope that this law will be dealt with soon, so that the forthcoming watership elections in 2023 will be the first genuine democratic watership elections.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u168	Thank you. There's been an interruption by Mrs. Van der Plas, BBB.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u169	I don't understand something. In my opinion, I have already heard from the previous speaker that a link is being established with secure seats and keeping the water level low or poor water quality. Is that right? If it isn't, I'd love to hear it. I just heard that it was said that because of these secure seats we see certain things, such as keeping the water level low and poor water quality. But what happens when there are no more secure seats? What happens then? Does the water quality suddenly go up? Is that really because of the secure seats? I don't quite understand that connection.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u170	Of course, farmers have a great interest in the level of water. I believe that the importance of the farmers in these secure seats is disproportionate in relation to the social interest. My group sees that this is preventing changes that I think are important, because the interests of fellow farmers have a disproportionate part to play in policy choices that are being made. So yes, I see that, for example, on the development of the water level, that kind of thing is being pushed through less quickly and that worries me. But it is also true, of course, that if there is a fully democratically elected waterboard, there will be a policy choice that maintains the same. But my assessment is that these secure seats make farmers disproportionately important in this respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u171	First of all, the waterboard is, of course, just democratic, because there are secure seats but there are no protected people. People are simply put on a list and they are simply democratically elected. So now I'm assuming that once those secured seats are abolished, things are going to be all right. Can Mr De Hoop give me that guarantee that everything will be okay because there are no more farmers in it? Because that's what I'm tasting a bit out of multiple inserts here: that it's not really about those seats, but they just don't want those farmers in it, because they have way too much power. They don't really want them.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u172	Well, let me say first of all that I am a proud farmer's son of a dairy farmer, of a man who has sheep, of a man who has bird gelding in the meadow for the gruttos, so I see very well that a lot of farmers have heart for the business and also for the climate. That's one. I am not suggesting that I am against farmers, because I am a proud, proud farmer's son. Having said that, through the chairman, to Mrs Van der Plas. Well, at least I've taken that care away. I think it is democratically better if every seat in the waterboard is democratically elected and not secured. I believe that the interests of farmers can still emerge. Any farmer can run and I would particularly encourage him to do so. But my view is that the interests of farmers in this area at the moment simply come out disproportionately through those secure seats. When the voter votes for those who, for example, bring that aspect to the water level, I can live with that. Because then it was decided entirely democratically by the citizen, but I would like to open it up much more, and that is what I think is best.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u173	Mrs. Van der Plas, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u174	I am aware of Mr.De Hoop's background and I also love that he is a farmer's son and even comes from Friesland: the dairy province par excellence. Anyway, I'm just a little confused. So what if those secure seats are gone and say hypothetically that in such a waterboard all farmers are going to run for office and so are all on a waterboard; then it's okay? Then it's good, because then it's democratic. I do not know whether either the Labour Party, or D66 or GroenLinks consider it desirable or desirable. Theoretically, it could, couldn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u175	Yeah, and that's fine, because that's what the voter decides. Only, as I see it, ownership relations and changes in them can be achieved much better as far as I am concerned when you break that open and make those relationships even more democratic than they are now. If the voter then chooses to vote for the farmer who has done his good work in the waterboards for years, then I wish him every success. Then so be it. Those policy choices must also be made there. So that's fine. But I think that this relationship in the secure seats does not represent the various interests equally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u176	Thank you very much. I shall then give the floor to Mr Madlener, PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u177	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would also like to begin by congratulating Mr Minhas. He held a personal story about how he attended school and was taught by Ronald Sörensen in the time of the foundation of Leefbaar Rotterdam. I was involved in that myself. I was fliering with Pim Fortuyn when Mr. Minhas sat at the dining table and was told by his father: we have a duty to contribute to this country, which has received us so hospitably. I liked that. I also noticed that Pim Fortuyn made an impression there. It's just, I find it very disappointing that he's being put out here as a populist. Pim Fortuyn has indeed opened a discussion, which was very much needed, about: who are we going to bring to this country, who are we going to bring here? Mr Minhas is a very good example of someone who takes responsibility for himself and has become a Westerner, but that discussion was, of course, badly needed in view of immigration. It's still badly needed now. I regret that Mr Minhas put Pim Fortuyn away like a populist, but I do like that he works so well in our country. That's what more immigrants should do, I'd say.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u178	Well, well, well, well, well. Well, that...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u179	Why not, Mr. Chairman? That was Mr Minhas' call, wasn't it? He's proud of that. I can imagine. If you do well in a country and carry out a western lifestyle, you should also be proud of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u180	I really object to this. A debate on waterboards is being used here to put away immigrants. Please act normal, limit yourself to the content and just leave this. There's no need for this, Mr. Madlener. We're gonna talk about the waterboards. That's a very interesting subject. I'm really asking you to take these words back. I do not expect you to do this, but at least I would like to say that I object to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u181	Mr Van der Molen. Then I'll give you the floor, Mr Madlener.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u182	I agree with Mr. De Hoop's objections. The objection is not so much that it falls into a waterboard debate. That might be the wrong place, but it's probably the wrong tone, too. Mr Minhas has said extensively that his cradle is in this country, that he no longer feels welcome here and wants to contribute to our society. It stops once to put someone away as an immigrant. I'm sorry, but I just think the tone is very inappropriate. Then it is simply the wrong comment, which is made at the wrong time.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u183	Yes, I quote Mr Minhas' own words. He calls Pim Fortuyn a populist. I regret that, because I think Mr Minhas is an excellent example of successful integration, perhaps even of assimilation. I didn't know that word was "allochtoon" and swear word, Mr. Chairman, but apparently that's seen here as a swear word. That's not what I meant.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u184	Thank you. Let's get back to the subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u185	I was interested in the origin and the personal story, which comes together nicely with my new colleague, Mr Minhas. I want to praise him for that. So it was meant to be positive. Back to the subject, Mr. Chairman. The PVV has always been critical of the waterboards. We have for a long time been in our programme that we prefer to abolish it and that we want to place their task in the province. The Netherlands has far too many governments and too little democracy. In this respect, this bill is appealing to us. A lot of these administrative layers and administrative organisations are just political strongholds. Even pension funds are now all occupied with political appointments by the career circus of professional politicians from the parties. And yes, if you throw a stone into that administrative stronghold, it's going to be very crowded. I've been called 50 times today, I think. Well, that's an exaggeration. I've never been so lobbied about a very small bill like this lately. Here, too. Well, we heard from the previous speaker that even environmental policy is going to look very different. That's what worries me, because that's not the point. We want more democracy in an administratively complicated and full country. In that respect, this bill is satisfactory. It's a neat bill. The Council of State's opinion was quite positive. I've seen much more critical comments. It's technically sound and it's getting more democratic. What could be against it, you'd say. However, I can see that some left-wing parties are thinking here: if it becomes more democratic, then it becomes more environmentally friendly, then there will be more climate policy and then it will get worse for farmers. Yeah, that contradiction... I hope that's not gonna happen. I don't think so either, because I am in contact with farmers who say: we are in the Waterscape Party in the Dutch Delta and we are constantly being kept off the board because those people from all those secured seats keep us out; they're going to run with their friends from CDA and VVD. Those farmers are farmers too, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, are actually feeling sidelined. Well, of course they're the farmers of LTO, the professional ones, the big corporations. That's what we're seeing at the CDA. The CDA used to think it was a farmer's party and to defend the interests of farmers, but the opposite is true. The farmer's never had it as bad as it is now. And that's all because of the CDA's nitrogen policy. As a result, farmers are now being expropriated and we are going to spend billions to scare the farmers away. It's really too crazy for words. This is due to environmental policy, the Natura 2000 law, from Europe. We all know how it happened. They refuse to do anything about it. Now we have a huge damage station and the farmers are being chased away. There are a lot of farmers who do not feel represented by the CDA at all. They're switching to the BBB. I understand that very well. My question to the authors of the law is really: how are we going to reassure farmers who are afraid that their interests will be lost because of this? I know farmers who aren't afraid of that. They say: my interest is being snowed under by the CDA and those professional farmers. I'd like an answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u186	I'm just looking. Before you continue: there are quite a lot of people who would like to ask you something. We start again with Mr Minhas of the VVD. If possible, short interruptions, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u187	Mr. Chairman. The longer you wait, the more questions there are and the more I need to make an interruption. I'm just gonna start with the interruption I wanted to start with. Mr Madlener mentioned that the PVV had included in its programme that the water boards should be housed in the provinces. But how does Mr Madlener see that? Because those watercourses, the waterboards, are just cross-province, aren't they? So that's not at all ahead of us. Why then, because you want to place these water boards in the provinces, throw the idea of importance, payment and control completely overboard and completely democratize those water boards, when they are functional democracies?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u188	Well, because Mr Minhas just asked the question to another speaker: what is your view on the future of the waterboards? I thought: I am doing you a favour and I am going to give you our vision, namely that these watership tasks should be better in the province as far as we are concerned. That province has a somewhat clearer democratic mandate, let me put it this way, even when I look at the turnout of the elections. In addition, I believe that there may be a cost reduction. Knowledge is at home in the provinces. It's actually quite natural to lay that down at a province. But we won't have sleepless nights of it if that doesn't happen. So in that sense, you can also call me conservative. It is not a very urgent problem in the Netherlands that we solve with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u189	Then we'll go to Mr Grinwis.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u190	The example mentioned by Mr Madlener, namely the Dutch Delta Water Authority, and the fact that the General Water Authority Party is actually kept out of the executive board, can of course be perfectly resolved with the proposal I made, namely to remove the obligation to be on the executive board. Doesn't Mr Madlener think that's a charming solution to this problem?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u191	That could indeed be a solution. It is a bit of a compromise between real democracy and a secure seat. Look, it's better than it is now, I'd say, but is it better than the bill? That's the question. The charmingness of the bill... Look, we don't really know any seats. We don't have any secure seats here either. Rich people pay more taxes than poor people, but we don't have secured seats for rich people here, and yet it goes well, we pay too much taxes in this country, but still relatively well with the rich people in the Netherlands. So that secure seat feels for us, well, a little North Korean. And so I am not convinced of the need for those secure seats, especially given that there are water boards and peasants who say: we suffer from those secure seats, because it is always the same cabal, with the administrative strongholds that divide those lanes and close the ranks.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u192	Well, the proposal I just made, of course, does something, does something, does something against the fears of progressive and left-wing decisions by Mr Madlener. He just said he's a little conservative after all. And I also know the PVV as quite steadfast. In 2013, the PVV, for which Mr Madlener was also in the Chamber at the time, voted against the D66 Schouw amendment to abolish the secured seats. So why should an ever-launched path be changed? Why would the PVV be running?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u193	Yeah... look, we actually want to abolish those waterboards; that's actually what we want. Now there's a bill in front of it that democratizes. The question now is: is that better than it is now? So I've put my ear to listen, even to farmers. I've talked to a lot of farmers. I understand the emotion, the fear of the importance they say they're losing. But there are other farmers who do not agree. So we are a little neutral in that; let me put it this way. And yes, if you think carefully about a secure seat... That doesn't fit our order at all. Look, you either have democracy or you don't. This is a very strange construction that you say: we are holding elections, but a number of seats are standard for a number of parties. And then I can see that those parties who are entitled to these secure seats, the employers, agriculture and nature managers, are of course putting their friends in there; they are of those same parties. So it's a bit of a clique, and the Netherlands already has too many of those leftovers. So we're leaning towards support for the bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u194	Mrs. Van der Plas, BBB. And then Mrs. Van Esch. And then Mr. Gold Sword. And then Mrs Maatoug.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u195	I am really curious what Mr Madlener means by those 'LTO farmers' and those 'professional farmers'. Then who are they? In my opinion, LTO members are just small farmers, natural farmers, dairy farmers, pig farmers, old, young, everything. But an image is sketched here as if it's some sort of big farmer cowboys who control everything at LTO. I really feel that Mr Madlener has absolutely no idea what the LTO members look like and who they are.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u196	It might be better to talk about "CDA farmers"; not that all CDA farmers are so big or I know what they are, but you can see that these kinds of organizations... LTO also has a CDA at its head. That makes sense, because they're intertwined organizations. The farmers I am talking about... as you know, we are very fond of farmers, but we can see here that the CDA farmers' party in particular has come up with nitrogen policy. This is extremely damaging to our peasantry. This is particularly affecting small farmers. The big less, because they have the money to invest in all kinds of expensive barn systems, advisors, lawyers and so on. So the small family companies are a bit underwhelmed when you look at how things are now arranged in the Netherlands. I think that LTO and especially the CDA, the old clubs, are generally for the big farmers.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u197	It is simply complete nonsense, really complete nonsense, what Mr Madlener says. Firstly, if you look at dairy farms, you can see that the average farmer in the Netherlands has 90 cows. There may be a few companies that are bigger, with a few hundred cows. It's just really bullshit to assume that, and also that dolls and boyfriends are being put up. It's really hard to get people on board at all. Often these are people who are working all day on their yard and who still have a few meetings at LTO Salland in the evening. I know these people personally. Those are very ordinary, normal farmers. They don't have big Mercedes and big carts. That is simply not true at all. Mr Madlener really has the wrong picture. I can't wait to see who talked him into that image.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u198	I don't want to put all LTO farmers on the same page either, not at all. So you are right: of course, a lot of LTO-organised farmers have normal farms. They are also not waiting for all this CDA and VVD policy. But it did happen. The resistance didn't come from LTO either. It came from Farmers Defence Force and from the farmers who are now voting for your party. Those are the farmers who suffer most from it. But I can see from those farmers' clubs, like the CDA, that all policies come with 'Natura 2000', 'European', 'pest the farmer away' and 'we are going to spend 60 billion to implement climate and nitrogen policies'. That is the reality. That's done while the farmers' clubs are on the board. They're just in the coalition. How is that possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u199	Mrs. Van der Plas, very brief and final.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u200	Yeah, short and rounding. The previous LTO-president was a PvdA-man by the way, so it's not a whole CDA-bulb. That whole nitrogen policy is being implemented here in the Chamber. That wasn't the CDA's idea. It is certainly not the case that these small farmers are the victims of this...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u201	You disagree.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u202	...and that the big farmers can afford it. In my opinion, you have no idea what is going on and live in the peasant Netherlands. You really have no idea. I'm closing up. Suppose Mr Madlener says: listen: I think it is a top-notch proposal, because this is the ultimate democracy for us, and that is why we are voting in favour. Then I could still think: I do not agree with that, but at least it is a position. I hope you will not, because it is going to be very bad for our country and it is going to be very bad for food production and land management. But I have a feeling he's on some kind of yacht to punish the CDA and LTO. I would like to tell him that I do not think it is a good idea to vote in favour of a law.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u203	I can see that the party that has been on the board for so long, which is co-responsible for nitrogen policy and farm policy, has created the situation we are now in. That is the situation in which your party is emerging, because the peasant party, the CDA, has left it completely out. That's what's going on. We've all seen the big protests. We all know that nitrogen policy is a disaster, not only for farmers but for all Dutch people, because it costs a lot of money and the Netherlands is completely locked. The parties responsible for this are the parties that are now in the government. Those are the parties that are also represented in the waterboards. That's a lot of LTOs, too. I'm not saying "all LTOs," because there are a lot of good LTO farmers, but LTO has been suspiciously quiet about the whole nitrogen policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u204	Thank you, Mr. Madlener.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u205	That's exactly why other parties jumped into that hole, including your party.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u206	But we're going to see Mrs. Van Esch of the Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u207	I would just like to reassure Mr Madlener about the concerns he has just expressed about the fact that things are going to change. Because even though I and my party would like to do so, I have just indicated in my contribution that not having those secure seats does not automatically cause anything to change. That is precisely what strengthens the democratic system. My plea was that I wanted to, but it doesn't. It only allows us to choose democratically. It's the same here in the House of Representatives. I think it is bad that we reject so many natural and environmental plans here, but it happens. That might as well be the case in there. So in that respect, I just want to say that I think that...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u208	You said it, Mrs Van Esch.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u209	I think those concerns need to be less serious than you have them now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u210	Those are concerns I don't share. That is why I say that it is a great improvement democratically. It is about a small subject, because I don't think many Dutch people have sleepless nights of how the board is chosen in the waterboard, if they even know what the waterboard is doing. Anyway, it's a big change in this administrative stronghold. My phone's been ringing all day, too. That goes from worried farmers to CDAs and VVDs and you name it. They almost beg me: do not support this, because then we lose influence. So I just want to say that we wholeheartedly support democratic progress. But here, a number of parties, including the Animal Party, are making a bit of a suggestion. Mr De Hoop also suggested that it would change environmental policy. I ask the authors how they see it. I don't see it that way myself. I would like to draw attention to the farmers I am talking about, who would also prefer to abolish those secure seats, because they only suffer from them. Anyway, that's about one waterboard. I haven't spoken to all the water boards in the Netherlands. I therefore ask the authors of this law how they view it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u211	Thank you. Mr Goudswaard of JA21 has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u212	I really do hear a repetition of views on this matter and again. The waterboard is simply a functional government and has nothing to do with, for example, a municipality or a province. I have a specific question for Mr Madlener. Would we also be standing here and would the initiators be sitting here if all those secured seats were natural seats?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u213	That's not so much a question to me, I guess. Speaking of democracy, of course, it doesn't make sense for you to have secure seats. That simply does not fit into a democratic system. And whether it is a functional democracy or another kind of democracy, it is a democracy. And in a democracy, you choose your representation. That's how it's supposed to be. It's not like that here. A number of seats have been secured here. That's just a weird construction. This leads to even worse situations for farmers voting for parties in a number of waterboards. We don't know the whole system. Here, farmers' interests are also represented by different parties. Whatever you think! So I'm not that afraid of that at all. But a number of speakers have suggested that this would change something. I'll ask the proposers what's going on.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u214	I actually just had a very simple question to Mr Madlener. And I think he knows himself. I don't think these people would have been in trade-k here if those secured seats were natural seats. The reason you've been called so often is because you have the key role. That's why you've been called so many times. And here's what you're gonna do. You open the door to the green agenda. You, as a PVV, are making a capital mistake by stepping over this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u215	I don't see it that way. I think all interests are in good hands with the electorate. So in that sense, I trust the Dutchman. Many Dutch people love our farmers, love our food supply and see all these interests. So I'm not afraid of that at all. I also see a waterboard party with a lot of farmers voting for it. That's in agricultural territory. Those are real farmers, and they suffer from those secure seats. So I see another side of that, too. So if that's as black and white as it says here, I don't believe in it. I don't think that much is going to change at all, but it is going to be a little bit more democratic. But I do ask the proposers how they look at it, because it is a bit of a suspicion from the background. Let me just call it that. Yeah, I understand that. I understand the suspicion. But is it? I see more of the democratisation of the waterboards.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u216	Mrs Maatoug van GroenLinks has an interruption. We're gonna do interrupts in half and not in threes anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u217	A lot of people are afraid of the voter tonight. My question is very simple. Does colleague Madlener trust the voter?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u218	Yes. I have just said that you can very well defend that a dictatorship is a very good form of state that works very well. It could be. But I am a democrat, because I believe in democracy. I also believe that all interests in a democracy are well weighed. I think Dutch people are very reasonable people, who also think about the farmers' interest. It is of course also self-interest, because you want to have your food affordable and of good quality. Yeah, I trust the voter. My party trusts the voter, too. We are a true democratic party, although some always question it. But we really are a democratic party. We believe in democracy. We're in democracy. We use democratic means to achieve our goal. We are seeing here a piece of democratisation of a layer of government that legislates, which imposes taxes. So, as far as we are concerned, a secure seat does not fit in. But I understand the concerns of a number of people, some farmers in this case. I'm not afraid of it myself. In the end, we will make that assessment as a party. But I would ask the proposers to go into this in detail.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u219	Thank you, Mr. Madlener. Then we'll go to Mrs. Van der Plas, BBB.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u220	Thank you. President and citizens of the Netherlands. We are discussing the initiative law of GroenLinks and D66 on democratisation of the waterboards. Although I do not agree with the legislative proposal, you will understand that, I would like to congratulate the lady, Mr and the staff in question on this beautiful democratic initiative. I don't like it that much, but I'll come back to that. But the initiative is good. Democraticisation of the waterboards. You can't be against that, can you? Who doesn't want that? But when I read the initiative proposal, I get the feeling that the initiators are not so much concerned with democratisation as with the reduction of rights. The initiators want secure seats to disappear. These are seats for agriculture, nature and business. Democracy is also the protection of minorities or specific interests, as the Council of State has also contributed. That is what we are talking about here. Mr. Chairman. Let me begin by saying that a waterboard is a special form of governance. It is a so-called functional organisation, a technocratic layer of administration. This makes the waterboard substantially different from other levels of government. Does the waterboard work badly? No. Isn't the waterboard set up on its duties? No. Isn't the waterboard democratic? No, it's not. There are simply chosen people in the waterboards. However, a few seats have been secured, and not for nothing. That's because of their special interest. A particular interest, because the protected parties depend on water boards and good water management, and can play a major role in the tasks of the waterboard. Then there is the following argument from the initiators, which strikes a pig like a pliers: the climate. According to the initiators, the reason for the legislative proposal is that the sector-specific interest is shifted to the general interest. Why? There are no new interests at all. It seems that the initiators only now find out what the waterboard is for. Climate has always been one of the interests of the waterboard. Under the guise of climate change, the initiators now suddenly indicate that the tasks of the waterboard have changed. That is not the case at all. The waterboard has always had the task of anticipating climate change. Dry feet, water storage, clean water: they are all goals for the water boards. It may be that the waterboards may need more money, because the task is getting heavier. But the mission hasn't changed. That's really bullshit. Mr. Chairman. The secure seats are there for a reason. Agriculture, nature and industry depend on the waterboards. Farmers even depend on it for their livelihood. The harvests depend on it. Farmers are therefore not in the waterboards for power, as the anti-farming lobby is so keen to see. Farmers also carry out work for the water boards and cooperate intensively with water boards. There are almost 200 projects in the Netherlands that farmers carry out together with the water boards. I'll mention a few: cleaning the locks, retaining or accelerating water draining, lowering the rate of soil descent, improving soil structure, creating a more robust water system, reducing water pollution, contributing to the improvement of freshwater supply, improving water quality, developing more knowledge and expertise in field hydrology. Farmers play an essential role in the Netherlands by water. They provide knowledge and opportunities. The initiators think that this knowledge can be bought, through expensive agencies, who mainly invent plans from behind the drawing board. The bill states: because of the increased complexity of our water management, it is no longer self-evident that the interests of the agricultural sectors and industry prevail. The interests of the agricultural sectors; it is unbelievable, but it really says: the interests of the agricultural sectors. The initiators seem to forget that these agricultural sectors are farmers, growers and growers and that these farmers, growers and growers make food. There is no agricultural interest; there is a general interest. Food production is a general interest. In addition to water and oxygen, food is one of our primary necessities. How general do you want the interest? Mr. Chairman. The initiative proposal does not mention food production once. Not once! If it wasn't for crying, you could laugh. Here in the Chamber, too, people only woke up when I just mentioned farmers in relation to food. And then cry out that no knowledge disappears with the disappearance of the secure seats. Well, I hold my heart when I see here that people don't even know or even realize that farmers serve the common good: healthy, safe, sustainable, affordable and always available food for everyone, in drought and in rain, in cold and in heat. Mr. Chairman. I can tell you what will happen if this proposal continues. The waterboards will then be taken by people who only have an eye for the climate agenda. The essential and important role of farmers and business will then be played out. The environmental and climate lobby will take the seats and the activist agenda will be rolled out in the waterboards. That is why I am surprised at the position of the PVV in this regard. Last week, PVV-Kamerlid Martin Bosma unfailingly explained how left-istivist The Netherlands settles everywhere and with a small group now decides how the Netherlands should live. Well, that's where the waterboards will come in when the PVV will vote for this proposal. In the waterboards, the Netherlands still has at least a few secured seats of common sense, knowledge and skill in the boards. They may be exchanged for people with their own political agendas. This abolition will go down in history as a major mistake, as will the abolition of product shelves in 2010. Decades of knowledge, skill and common sense then also flowed away. We are now witnessing the consequences of this. This is gonna be a big mistake. Mark my words. Mr. Chairman. The relationship between farmers and their soil and watercourse and the waterboard will change. They will face each other side by side. Businesses are no longer involved, at the expense of much-needed innovations. Eventually, the waterboards pass into the provinces. If the waterboard becomes a political institution, the importance of this body has been lost and a logical solution has been found in the province. But that is really not a good thing for a more functional organisation like the waterboard. This is in the interests of relevance and expertise and not of political games. When the secured seats disappear, the politicisation of the waterboard is complete. That leads to a policy overkill. The core task of the waterboard, namely good water management at the lowest possible cost, is thus compromised. Waterboards are a functional democracy. It's about one interest, and that's water. This is not interchangeable with other interests, as could happen in a province. Mr. Chairman. The waterboards exist for almost 800 years. In 1255, the first official waterscape was established, namely the High Council of Rhineland, established by Count Willem II, mentioned here earlier. For centuries, things have been going well and the system is working, and now things have to be different. The argument that the so-called farmers' interests are also represented in the many waterboard parties is nonsense. The BoerBurgerMovement was founded precisely because the sound of the countryside was not represented in politics. If this initiative proposal continues, we, myself and my party, will be forced to join BBB in the waterboards as well. The people who now have the secured seats are very welcome to join the list. Given the current polls for BBB, the initiators may be very sorry about this proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u221	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u222	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u223	Mrs. Van der Plas has been in the Chamber for a year. She's been in the news a lot and she's been loved by the farmers. How does Mrs van der Plas actually feel that she has represented the farmers here in the Chamber over the past year? Was she okay with it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u224	Well, I actually think it's going pretty well, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u225	Actually, I do.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u226	Well, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u227	I don't see why that couldn't go well with the waterboards. I think that you could do very well, that your constituents would be delighted and that you could do the same. So do you see that this alternative can be well formed in a waterboard and that the interests of farmers can then be well defended, as you have done in the last year with fire, which we could all be part of?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u228	I refer again to previous speakers, including those from the CDA and the VVD. This is a functional government, a functional democracy. I think it is justified that people who have an interest in it should have a seat in it, which sounds like'she wants to earn from it', but I am referring to the importance for their future and their harvest, for example in the case of farmers, who have a secure seat in it, precisely in order to prevent it from becoming a political agenda. I told you, the only mission of a waterboard is water. If that becomes a political institution, you'll have a pretty good chance that it'll go to the county in a few years. It could be. Then it becomes a completely political game, because then water becomes interchangeable with public transport or with youth care; then you will get it. So I do think that these secure seats are important, not just for the knowledge and skills. We have seen this in the product markets: we have really made a huge, capital error by abolishing the product shelves. That's what's gonna happen to the waterboards, and that's what I'm afraid of.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u229	Thank you, Mrs Van der Plas. Very brief, finalizing, Mr. De Hoop.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u230	Yeah, rounding it up. I think that is a wonderful part of the political assembly. I think that perhaps the best representative of the people in this Parliament is behind the chair right now and that she is doing this for the farmers. You're very good at that. That also makes you in all those rows incredibly high every time. I think you could do that very well in the waterboards. I don't see why that wouldn't be possible. I'd almost encourage her.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u231	I understand that Mr De Hoop wants me out of the Chamber and would like to go to the waterboard. That's not gonna happen, Mr. De Hoop.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u232	Thank you, Mrs Van der Plas. Then we go to Mr. Goldsword, JA21.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u233	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I congratulate Mr Minhas on his maiden speech. A nice story that was. First of all, I would like to express my appreciation for this initiative proposal, which is a proposal that targets the oldest administrative layer in our country. A governance that is intertwined with a waterboard system that is regarded as an international example and even set as a standard. The authors have taken the trouble to prepare this proposal and to submit it to Parliament. For my part, I try, from the point of view of JA21, to give a well-balanced assessment of the electoral system of the waterboards. Our country has a centuries-old tradition of government, in which the interests of those who are governed are well-balanced. Their voice is represented in our national parliaments. The discussion on the referendum shows how essential it is to always look at a governance ecosystem in its context. Every electoral system, every form of representation, has its own background. In this context, the Council of State considers that the initiators have an excessively limited view of the concept of "democracy." My group is in favour of this. I should also like to quote from this opinion. "However, the concept of democracy can also be seen more broadly, with the possibility of protecting minorities or specific interests. This is not unusual and is also applied in other places." That's the core for us. For my group, too, the context in which this administration operates is essential for the waterboards. We attach great value to a careful balance between securing positions and interests and doing justice to the voice of the people and groups whose interests are being defended. Expert and balanced safeguarding of interests is the foundation of the waterboards. Whoever undermines this foundation undermines the waterboards as such.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u234	Mr Goudswaard and I have never met in a debate, but he speaks on behalf of JA21.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u235	I can answer that question: yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u236	Then it doesn't have to go off my two interruptions. I am very surprised by this speech, not only because of what Mr Eerdmans said about this bill 8 July last year: if companies or farmers want to enter the waterboard, they simply have to participate in the elections with their own list. Mr Goudswaard knows this, so he will certainly come back to it himself. And now this story. Well, that's gonna take some explaining, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u237	Yes, of course. You're absolutely right about that. Thank you for this question. As a young party, we have made that decision in all this fuss. In recent times, we have considered this whole dossier. We have now reached a different judgment as a party. Then I'm glad to explain this here. It happens. Is it completely unknown to you that something like this could happen?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u238	Thinking can certainly happen, but Mr Eerdmans has been in this Chamber before and the previous position was much more consistent with the election programme of JA21. That election programme is all about the real influence and involvement of our people in the state. This is about the people's sovereignty that needs to be strengthened in the base. It doesn't say much, but it's one of my favorite chapters of the JA21 program anyway. We're together for that elected mayor, together for referenda. This whole plea goes against that, doesn't it? Mr Madlener's story is what JA21 should have told here, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u239	I'm glad to hear you've read our party program so fervently. That's good news. You're making a totally wrong turn. In fact, you did that when you spoke here. We're talking about the waterboard. That has nothing to do with a municipality or a province. This waterboard is a purely functional administrative layer. I have no idea why you want to destroy this perfectly functioning board, the waterboards. So there really is a huge difference.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u240	We're trying to strengthen it. Mr Goudswaard is not consistent with everything he says in that programme. The word "watership" is not mentioned, but it says: "As far as the influence of the people on the administration is concerned, it can be seen that the Netherlands is still essentially a country of regent." It's about the clique this and the clique that. None of this is recognizable in this plea. That is a pity, because I often get to hang out with JA21 on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u241	It is a pity that we have wasted so much time here on this whole thing. There have been interruptions over and over again. I say and repeat that: the waterboards are functioning fine. There are parties who have an interest, who pay for it and who are entitled to say something. That's a perfectly normal thing. To go further, it is not the case that farm holdings are overrepresented. They're not overrepresentation at all. The citizen still has the right to vote in this. There's nothing to worry about. There's nothing inconsistent about the story I'm turning off here either.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u242	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u243	Let's see. My argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u244	You have a new question on this last point? Yeah? Mrs Maatoug.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u245	They were such fine words from Mr Eerdmans. I'm kind of flapping around here, including this little interruption debate. Since when is JA21 afraid of the voter?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u246	I'm not here to play guessing games. I have no idea exactly where you're going with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u247	I was listening to your speech and what I heard was: it's all going to be terrible, because the few seats that are now secured are now being democratically elected. We have the people very high. That is quite clear what importance they want to see represented. I have just heard from the BBB that we are going to have an even better representation, because they are also going to participate in the waterboards. That's only a profit for democracy, isn't it? Why is JA21 afraid of the voter in the waterboards?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u248	JA21 is not afraid of the voter at all. Absolutely not. But we're talking about a functional layer of administration here, but apparently that message doesn't exactly come across to you. It is not comparable to the municipality or the province.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u249	No, Mrs Maatoug, interruptions are in two. You're moving on, Mr. Gold Sword.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u250	The waterboard has a unique place in our state system. It's a functional board layer. River basins and drainage areas determine the limits. A plea for merging waterboards with provinces shows how quickly and lightly it is overlooked that a waterboard has an entirely unique character. Although the debate on abolishing water boards is not taking place right now, I am sending out this signal. My group is not under any illusion that it is the way in which the administration is put together. It's like remodeling: when you start with the room, you take care of the kitchen and before you know it, you're in the hall. Care for our water system is in everyone's best interest. "Throw the electoral system over the head and democracy will be strengthened." But we can look at it differently. That is what my group is doing. It has a reason why citizens under the name of residents have only three decades of access to the waterboards. This is a proper recognition of the importance that they too have in the choices that are being made. At the same time, the establishment of the electoral system is a recognition of the fact that there are and continue to be groups whose tasks directly and immediately affect the core of their activities. It's not about randomly secured seats. Maintaining secure seats can give rise to the suggestion of holding on to acquired rights. But it's more than getting, having and keeping. It is also giving in a financial sense, because the payments made by secure seats are huge. But there's more than money. For example, the experience and expertise of farmers over the generations has been built up and passed on. It is about securing the involvement of those who stand with the boots in the clay, of those who see at a glance what water management does with an area. These are people for whom biodiversity is living reality instead of models and calculations. With due respect for the politicians who put parties on the lists, but that sharp, professional look of those directly involved remains necessary. Knowledge is power. The argument that management does not require professional knowledge and that knowledge can be obtained from civil servants is an inevitable consequence of an obsession with waterboards, because the balance of power shifts to officials. Mr. Chairman. Let us also name the interests behind this bill. Apart from an obsession, this bill makes further politicisation of the waterboards inevitable. The dismantling of protected interests should lower the threshold for other choices. These are, in particular, choices linked to climate policy, as if they were not being sufficiently addressed at the moment. The fact that water management is becoming wider and that choices lie ahead is a fact. The fact that they have to be faced is also a fact. As the water tasks are understood more widely, it is obvious that political choices will be given greater weight. In this dynamic, secure seats ensure the guarding of a piece of rest and continuity in a functional board. I'm gonna finish up. For JA21, a electoral system is not once and for all poured into concrete. The composition of representative bodies and the way in which decisions are taken should respond to the questions of our time. The debate in response to the opinion, which has been weighed down, also shows to my group that further consideration is always needed. But that requires a more balanced consideration than under the flag of complete democratisation to undermine the foundation of the waterboard. This is a foundation on which the protection against high tide and the care of the right water level and good water quality is based, with knowledge of the area, knowledge of water and knowledge of the subject matter. Mr. Chairman. Finally, a few sentences. Ensuring long-term continuity and stability will not benefit from the transfer of knowledge and the politicisation of relations. A system of carefully balanced decision-making that has proven itself over the centuries is too valuable for us to just go about our business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u251	Thank you. There are still a few short questions. First of all, Mr Sneller, then Mr De Hoop and then Mrs Van Esch.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u252	As I said, in the Committee on the Interior, I often agree with JA21. On the J&V committee, I often disagree. But what they have in common is that it's kind of a consistent story. Here's the reproach: this bill is responsible for the waterboard, and this bill is politicising the waterboard. What is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u253	I don't see why those two can't go hand in hand. In any case, this bill is going to pose a huge danger. It is a well-functioning, functional layer of government, which you apparently somehow think corresponds to a municipal or a provincial layer. It's not that. It is only going to make sure that there are only more officials. We've seen what kind of shit that can get us. The list of the 100 most exuberant nitrogen companies we can't even get good for us twice. I can give you some examples.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u254	Finally, Mr Sneller.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u255	I expected that at the end of this speech something would come up as: joke, I meant it all quite differently. I just don't get it, not even this answer. Obligatoryness is usually the opposite of politicisation. You're handing over power to the officials because there's less political direction. Somehow there is another goal, which makes it all compatible for Mr Goldsaber, without being able to explain it to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u256	I really don't see it that way. We see it as a complete challenge to secure knowledge and to be replaced by civil servants. They're gonna call the shots there. We see this as a huge danger.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u257	I was also a little surprised at the flexibility of JA21 in switching views on this proposal. But perhaps it also offers hope that it may also come to an issue such as asylum, I say very naive.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u258	If you believe in care in the region, then...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u259	Apart from that, I tasted two different things in Mr Goudswaard's speech. Knowledge is power, but also a little: money is power. This is because the farmers also pay more to the waterboard. But does Mr Goudswaard recognise that the waterboard actually invests more in farmers in outlying areas than, for example, in urban areas? And that there is also the explanation for the fact that farmers contribute more? Does he not agree that there is some logic in the higher costs that farmers contribute to the waterboards?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u260	If that's what you're saying. I'm not sure what the proportions are. If you have the most up-to-date figures or if you have an infographic of them, then the conversation might be a little easier. But I can follow your thinking in that. I also know that, in percentage terms, farmers pay a lot towards the waterboards. It is therefore not a strange idea at all that they are in this well-functioning functional layer of administration.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u261	Finally, Mr De Hoop.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u262	In this sense, I take it for granted because waterboards invest much more in the outlying areas than, for example, in the city. There's some logic in that. That is what I wanted to say, because it was very often mentioned in the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u263	I have the feeling that I hear Mr Goudswaard say: if you pay, it is okay to have a secure seat. I think that's a really fascinating sentence that I'm going to remember. The moment you pay for something, then... and if you don't pay, you don't get a secure seat. I hear you say it several times, including in your own contribution. I find it fascinating if that were the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u264	The system of secure seats is of course decades old. Farms, SMEs and nature are represented in the secure seats. And yes, whoever has an interest in the land and pays for the land, to some extent also has control over the land. I don't know what you find so hard to follow.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u265	Mrs Van Esch, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u266	I don't find it hard to follow at all. I think Mr Goudswaard's plea is very clear in itself. Only, that does mean that the conclusion is that the moment someone pays more, he gets more control. This also means something for the functional democracy that is so important, or any democracy that we are talking about together, because it means that the person who pays also determines.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u267	That's a thought you could follow, but we're not talking about a county or a municipal administration. It's not about how much money they're paying. It is about the fact that, on these grounds, the nature organisations that I hear almost no one about are actually represented by SMEs and farmers in the secure seats. They have a certain interest in the ground. They have knowledge and know-how on that ground. It is important that that is shared in that functional level of governance.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u268	I thought it would be very appropriate at the end of this functional democracy debate to quote Mr Eerdmans again. Because I don't often agree with him. I must say that it is Mr Eerdmans from a year ago: 'If farms or farmers want to enter the waterboard, they simply have to participate in their own election list'. And so it is. That's better for our democracy. I am really sorry that JA21 has become afraid of the voter today. We think it is only right that more parties should participate in the waterboard elections.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u269	We are not afraid of the electorate, but I have already told Mr Madlener what we think is going to happen. We wouldn't have been standing here if those secured seats had all been natural seats. What I'm really afraid of is that the big green agenda is going to take over power in this layer of government, too. So that's where my concern lies. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u270	Thank you, Mr. Gold Sword. That brings us to the end of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-10.u271	I will, in consultation with the initiators, set a date for the further examination of this bill. I'm assuming that will be quite soon after the Mayreces. Once again, I thank the initiators, their staff and support, the minister and the spokesmen. And the people in the public gallery. They have been following the debate there for a long time. Very nice that you were with us tonight! Finally, I would like to thank all those who have followed the debate in a different way. I wish everyone a happy meireces. Take care of yourself.
