ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-9.u1	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the proposal for a law of Mr Hammelburg, Mr Bromet and Mr De Hoop amending the Constitution to add disability and sexual orientation as a non-discrimination ground, Section 35741. I would like to welcome Mr Hammelburg and Mr De Hoop. Unfortunately, Mrs Bromet has signed off on account of family circumstances. We wish her strength. The initiators are supported in Vak-K by Sjors Wijlhuizen and Manon Julicher, employees of the D66 group, and Daphne Warnar, employee of the PvdA group. I would also like to welcome the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations. She is present at the examination of this bill as an advisor to the Chamber. Welcome. A while ago, already 9 December 2021, we did the first term on the side of the Chamber. Now on the agenda is the continuation and also the completion of the entire legislative process, and of course we still have the votes. Today the first issue is the first-term response on the part of the initiators.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-9.u2	I shall be the first to give the floor to Mr Hammelburg. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-9.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I should also like to begin by thanking you for having already done so, because I am sitting here alone with Mr De Hoop and the support. Also from our side here in Vak-K our sincere condolences to Mrs Bromet and her family. It is a great pity, also on our part, that she could not be here today. Mr. Chairman. Before I start, I would like to dwell on the war in Ukraine. Our hearts go out to all Ukrainians who are suffering today, even tonight, from Putin's gruesome war violence, and tonight, in view of the subject of the debate before us, to the people with disabilities and Ihbtis, who are particularly vulnerable in this war and all wars. We all know the images of the rows of refugees that sometimes run for days towards the border. If we think for a moment about what this means for those who, for example, are unable or barely able to walk, then we immediately understand that fleeing war violence is not an option for them. Access to the necessary care is sometimes severely hampered by violence or lack of infrastructure, so that people with disabilities are extremely vulnerable in many wars. This also applies to Ihbtis at the moment in Ukraine. You notice: I'm a little emotional about it, because I still have contact with them. I am thinking in particular of trans-women who do not pass blockades or are refused at the border crossing because there is an M in their passport and are sent directly to the front as a woman, as a trans-woman. Gays and lesbians who have come face to face in Ukraine with Chechen troops directly responsible for the lhbti persecution, torture and murders that have been going on for years in the Russian Republic of Chechnya under the leadership of Putin-vazal Kadirov. And then yesterday the Russian patriarch Kirill, who blames homosexuals for the war. Homosexuals, I would like to dwell on that, too, often get blamed for natural disasters, pandemics and now this war. Mr. Chairman. I took the time for this in particular. I think that is appropriate, because we, the initiators, have doubted for a moment whether we wanted to continue this debate tonight in the light of the terrible war that is raging on our continent. But a Ukrainian lesbian knowledge told me: continue to fight for our fundamental rights in the Netherlands and fight for our fundamental rights, equality and freedom in Ukraine and Eastern Europe. We are following this advice here tonight, and we are taking it with us in the coming days, in the coming weeks, in the coming years, when we are talking about support for the most vulnerable, not only in the Netherlands but especially abroad, in Eastern Europe and these weeks in particular in Ukraine. That's what I wanted to start with, Mr. Chairman. I'm sorry I took three minutes for that, but I thought that was appropriate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-9.u4	No regrets at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-9.u5	Thank you. Then I'll move on to the proposal. I would like to begin by thanking some people and organisations who have contributed to this proposal in recent years. These are the MPs who successfully defended this constitutional change at first reading. Then of course I start with Vera Bergkamp, Kirsten van den Hul and Nevin Özütok. Previously members Van der Ham, Azough, Van Tongeren, Timmer and Heijnen were involved. In addition, I would like to thank the Humanist Confederation, the organisation Elke(in) and, as is also the case with the audience, COC Nederland. Words of appreciation are also in place for the staff, who also worked on this proposal at second reading. The chairman also mentioned them: Sjors Wijlhuizen, Manon Julicher, Koen Sijtsema, Jaap van der Heijden and Daphne Warnar. And, of course, this proposal would never have made it to second reading without the fantastic support of Bureau Legislation and expert official support. Mr. Chairman. Article 1 lays down, as often said, a fundamental standard: all those who are in the Netherlands are treated equally, and equal cases are treated equally and unequal cases unequally. This definition of equality is based on Aristotle. It is in the light of this legal concept and tradition that we are talking today about adding the non-discrimination grounds of disability and sexual orientation to Article 1. Discrimination based on these characteristics, however sad, is still common, even here in the Netherlands. The aim of this proposal in our constitution is to make it crystal clear that disability and sexual orientation should not be discriminated against. The proposal strengthens legal protection and enhances the recognition of the Constitution. This is certainly appropriate in the Netherlands after a history of disadvantage, discrimination and persecution. Mr. Chairman. During the debate on 9 December, the D66, SP, SGP, GroenLinks, Labour Party, VVD, CDA and Christian Union groups asked us questions, which I, together with Mr De Hoop and also on behalf of Mrs Bromet, of course, are trying to answer as well as possible. There were a number of questions that had been asked before. There were a number of questions that were new. However, given the particular nature of this debate, we have decided not to split up the questions and to go them off by group, precisely because we believe that the process of constitutional change should be followed very carefully. I will answer the questions put by Mr Kröger, Mr Bishop, Mr Van der Laan and Mr Leijten. Mr De Hoop will answer the questions put by Mr Werner, Mr Kathmann, Mr Ellian and Mr Ceder. I do not see all of them in the Chamber at this time; we will nevertheless simply answer the questions. Mr. Chairman. I shall begin with Mrs Kröger's questions. That is what we started on 9 December. Mrs Kröger has asked a single question and actually to the Minister, but let me also mention a number of points that Mrs Kröger mentioned because of the history of the constitution. It considered the sober nature of the Constitution. Mrs Kröger also says that this does not cover everything, and therefore sometimes leaves room for interpretation. That is why, in my opinion, our Constitution gives strong frameworks, as Mrs Kröger said, but also the necessary flexibility. Given the difficult procedure for amending the text of the Constitution, this is sometimes a good thing. We also include some standards in the Constitution that are essential for the State. Their development often takes place through ordinary laws. To this end, the Constitution also gives us orders. For example, the drafting of further legislation is entrusted to the legislator. This can be seen, for example, in Article 2 of the Constitution, which regulates who is "Dutch', but also in Article 59, which includes the mandate to continue to regulate voting rights. That is another point that Mrs Kröger made: the grounds we are discussing today have been mentioned earlier in the history of the constitution, but at that time, because of the spirit of the time, they were abandoned. This discussion has not begun today or in recent years. In the meantime a lot of things have changed and improved in the law and in society. Although the standards have been crystallised, this does not mean that they are respected, promoted and respected by all. It is therefore up to all of us to uphold, respect and uphold this Constitution, and to those who do not. We must point out to them that the constitution and the Constitution must be monitored as a written part of that constitution. They are the foundation of our rule of law and our democracy. I think that is very much needed today, given the situation in Europe, but also occasionally here in this Parliament. I wanted to reflect on this on behalf of the initiators towards the GroenLinks Group. Furthermore, Mrs Kröger's question will, of course, be for the Minister shortly. Mr. Chairman. Then there is a response to the questions and comments made by Mr Bishop of the SGP. Mr Bishop asked what the initiators proposed to the judicial review they had appointed on the question of whether an appeal on a particular ground was justified. That's a mouthful. He specifically asked what kind of procedure and what considerations would be expected. In this case, the initiators are limited to equal treatment cases, because they are the most relevant in the light of this proposal. Here's what I can say. If a person invokes a non-discrimination ground in a case relating to an equal treatment dispute, the judge will have to check whether that ground is actually at issue. That applies to all grounds. If an active representative of the people, for example Mr Bishop's party, starts a case at the College of Human Rights and takes the view that he is discriminated against because of his Catholic faith, then it could be that the College asks questions about how active membership of the SGP relates to a Catholic belief. For gender, this could turn out differently. The judge or college will not show the same intensity of scrutiny in every case. Often, especially in the absence of dispute, it will be sufficient for a person to claim to have a certain faith, race or gender. We really want to be careful that we write this to judges, because the way that test is designed and the intensity with which it is tested really lie with the judge. In practice, there is a test, implicit or explicit. Mr. Chairman. Mr Bishop pointed out that the proposal before us was limited to disability and sexual orientation, while the first reading also covered gender identity and gender expression. That's right. The procedural answer to this is, of course, that the proposal was still to be amended at first reading. The debate on enlargement or limitation of the proposal should be seen in the light of a possible amendment to the proposal. That consideration was still non-binary then, I say with a wink. Of course, this is no longer the case at second reading. It is now a matter of the proposal before us. Amendments are no longer possible at second reading. This does not mean, of course, that we do not want or can enter into the discussion at the second reading, but it is important to repeat it here. Mr. Chairman. Mr Bishop pointed out, in the context of an explicit inclusion of gender identity and expression, that the AWGB did not need to be the same as the Constitution. That may be so, but in this context it is good to point out that there is a degree of reciprocity between the law and the Constitution. It is true that the Constitution has the primacy and the AWGB is a horizontal elaboration of the standard in Article 1, but that does not mean that there should be no value attached to existing legislation if we want to amend the Constitution. The broad shared starting point, in politics, society and science, is that adjustments to the Constitution must be sufficiently supported by the Dutch legal order and society. That is what we call the 'constitutional scope'. There's been a lot of discussion about that. Adjustments should result from developments that have been confirmed with sufficient support in society. This confirmation can be found by looking at existing regulations or other decisions. In short, the Constitution is sovereign, but that does not mean that sometimes the Constitution can follow the ordinary law, not because the ordinary law is more important, but because the law can show the constitutional maturity of certain standards. Mr Bishop then raised the point that European case law on gender only concerns gender adjustments and registration. That was his third question. Mr Bishop believes that this is different from fully protecting gender identity. According to the initiators, there are no signs that gender identity would not be a fully protected ground in the case law of the European Court of Human Rights. The European Court of Human Rights does indeed protect against discrimination based on gender identity. The European Court of Justice ruled on 6 July last year: A.M. and others against Russia. In this case, the Court concluded that the transwoman who was denied contact with her children was discriminated against on the basis of her gender identity. In particular, this is an infringement of the right to private life, in conjunction with the right not to be discriminated against in the exercise of the rights set out in the European Convention on Human Rights. This is stated in Articles 8 and 14 of the Convention. There are more and older cases that actually confirm this point. It is also the case law, including at European level. Mr. Chairman. Then there are questions from Mr Van der Laan of D66. It examined the relationship between the principle of equal treatment and the prohibition of discrimination. Mrs Van der Laan actually asked two questions. Firstly, she asked the initiators if they could reflect on the significance of this bill in the light of the possible abolition of the ban on testing. This is in line with the question previously put in writing by the Christian Union and with the question put by the Labour Party, Mrs Kathmann, in the first term of office. The initiators believe that Article 1, especially if the present proposal is adopted, is good at the time. The article is suitable for checking legal arrangements, by the way it is formulated. This also has to do with the fact that there is no restriction system that does apply to other fundamental rights in the Constitution. In many articles, this restriction system now implies that fundamental rights can be kept up to date or limited under the law. For example, the prohibition of group oaths restricts freedom of expression. This formal system is less suitable for judicial review than a restriction system with more substantive conditions, such as proportionality and subsidiarity. In the case of fundamental rights, the question of whether a possible abolition of the ban on testing should go hand in hand with the modernisation of these fundamental rights and the system of restrictions can be discussed. But that is not really the case for Article 1. Should the prohibition of review be abolished, which would allow the courts to determine whether the laws comply with the standards laid down in Article 1 of the Constitution, Article 1 shall not constitute any obstacle to that. We must also bear in mind that the courts are already allowed to review legislation in the light of Article 1 of the Constitution. Only, laws in a formal sense, the laws that come from the States-General, here from this house, and from the government, should not at present be assessed under Article 1. That is exactly what Article 120 says. The fact that Article 1 is being examined has never really led to the amendment of the article. That's proof of that, too. Mrs van der Laan's second question was about publicising the new text of Article 1. It points out an important issue with this question. Long research showed that Dutch people appreciate their Constitution, but actually have very little knowledge of it. In the past few years, you can see a real change in that. Especially when it comes to Article 1, you increasingly see that that is celebrated and discussed, and that the name recognition is there. There are also many initiatives in the Netherlands that are working on this. I will list a number of them, just for inspiration, and perhaps even a good question to the cabinet. For example, in Utrecht, law students and students of the Hogeschool voor de Kunsten have entered into a collaboration with the aim of creating an artwork that symbolises Article 1. That artwork will be given a central place within Utrecht University, so that the standard of anti-discrimination and equal treatment is visible to students in Utrecht. Also in other public places we see article 1 come back a lot, in council halls for example. This helps greatly to further increase the awareness of Article 1. I can imagine that the same initiative can be taken in educational institutions, council halls, provincial houses and so on. It is also those local initiatives that often work so fantastic. In this context, we can also look at the motion tabled by Mr Ceder and Mr Omtzigt. That motion called for a visible representation of the Dutch Constitution in courtrooms. Of course, you can also choose to display Article 1 in a very specific way.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-9.u6	There is an interruption by Mrs Van der Laan of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-9.u7	Mr. Hammelburg has mentioned some fine examples. I certainly appreciate that, but Mr Hammelburg also stated in his introduction that freedom and equality are not self-evident and that we must fight for it. The forthcoming amendment of the Constitution is a positive one; I am assuming a positive vote next week is not a bad one. That's history. Parliament will therefore make history. My question to the proposers, and then to the cabinet, is: how do you look at a major public campaign? In fact, I would like to avoid making an important decision with our distinctive Dutch sobriety and then letting it run away in the campaign.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-9.u8	I find that an interesting suggestion. On 3 November 2023, we looked it up for a while and celebrate the 175th anniversary of the Constitution. It's an interesting suggestion. I would also say: ask the cabinet in particular. As I have just said, it is the best thing if these constitutional initiatives come bottom-up, but some support from the cabinet and from the Empire is of course essential, especially to celebrate the 175 years later. We want all Dutch people to know their Constitution well. It is the foundation of the rule of law, as I have just said to you, and the foundation of our democracy. The principle of non-discrimination in Article 1 is, of course, essential, so all the initiatives in it from the Chamber to the Cabinet are warmly welcomed, including by the initiators. I hope that was an answer to your question. Mr. Chairman. Then there are the questions of the Socialist Party. They came from Mrs Leijten, who has already had a very long day, as we concluded just after the previous debate. What I liked was that Mrs Leijten went into the constitutional history of the principle of equality and the influence of the European Convention on Human Rights on its development here in the Netherlands. She mentioned Marcus Bakker's amendment. It's nice to think about that. That amendment introduced the phrase 'or on any ground' in Article 1, as we know it now. This was the impact of the European Convention on Human Rights, which already had such a residual category. That Bakker amendment actually shows the importance of the international legal order and how it strengthens the Dutch legal order. At the same time, you can see that it works the other way around. For example, Article 90 of the Constitution states that it is a task to strengthen the international legal order. So there is a form of reciprocity in that too, and that is nothing but nice. Article 1, and I dare to say this, would have meant less if it had not been for the European Convention on Human Rights, and also if it had not been for the resistance fighter Marcus Bakker. It is therefore wonderful to think about this, and in the fight of many left-wing and progressive-liberal parties for equality and emancipation in constitutional history. Mrs Leijten also addressed the risks of algorithms. Of course, she also cited the surcharge scandal and the use of discriminatory models. This was also specifically aimed at nationality and income in this case. The initiators also see that there has been an unjustified distinction, and in fact agree with Mrs Leijten. This was also a wonderful question. Mrs Leijten said that, as she herself put it, she also had a question of conscience. It's been a while, but it was a question of conscience. In the light of the surcharge scandal and the Venice Commission's report, she asked whether membership of an economic class or nationality should not be specified in Article 1, which we are also discussing today. Or, as early as Mrs Leijten too, is Marcus Bakker's residual category sufficient, shall I say, for that too? And can't the same argument apply to this? This is actually a bit the same discussion we had with Mr Bishop. We cannot change this now, with this proposal, because we are in second reading. There are certainly some reasons for specifying the grounds mentioned by Mrs Leijten, namely the socio-economic position, income or, for example, nationality. We are talking about forms of discrimination which are frequent and can actually lead to unjustified exclusion. There are also good reasons not to explicate it. Of course, that's more the legal side of the story. We have discussed constitutional maturity before. That was also a discussion with Mr Bishop. The grounds we wish to add today to the Constitution, to Article 1, are sexual orientation and disability. The debate on its inclusion in Article 1 of the Constitution has actually been going on since the 1970s, the 1980s. This has been discussed for decades, half a century. We already find parts of this discussion in ordinary legislation, specifically in equal treatment legislation and in the Code of Criminal Law. This is not so much the case with these other concepts. It's an interesting discussion; I admit that. This will not be the case today only on the grounds of constitutional maturity and the debate surrounding it, also because this is not possible at second reading. But it is an exciting question, so I would say: let us look at it further in the future. However, the initiators are convinced that discrimination in any form whatsoever, especially when it comes to socio-economic status, income and nationality, is never allowed. The law now covers that well, enough, but we can have an interesting discussion about further anchoring in the future. We look forward to that. Mr. Chairman. I tried to do it a little fast, because it was late. I hope it was followable. I am through my reply and give the floor to Mr De Hoop.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-9.u9	Thank you. We shall then have a brief clean-up and then I shall give the floor to Mr De Hoop. A little up or down? Get down! How's that? Yeah, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-9.u10	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am a little less tall than Mr Hammelburg. Mr President, thank you for the floor. It is special that we should also be able to speak today. I too would like to thank our predecessors and those who have already contributed to this debate. First of all, I would like to comment on Mrs Werner's contribution. It referred in particular to the need to include the land "disabled." She said that this constitutional change encourages additional policies to promote equal treatment. That lecture wholeheartedly supports the initiators. It also indicated that this amendment requires something from us as a representative of the people. Indeed, the Constitution makes demands on legislation and we as a parliament are the body that carries out that test in our constitutional system. Mrs Werner also mentioned the recognition of people from the Ihbti community and of people with disabilities. That is indeed important. It is not for nothing that we see that interest groups have been asking for this for decades. But what I want to emphasise is that it's not just about recognition. That would make the proposal symbolic. And yes, the Constitution has a symbolic value, but it certainly has a legal value. That has already been mentioned by my colleague, but there is no harm in discussing it in greater detail. Firstly, in the first article of the Constitution, the explicitation of sexual orientation and disability offers more legal protection to the courts, in so far as it does not concern actions against laws in a formal sense. Yes, even now these grounds are subject to "any land," but explication of these grounds makes it even clearer that the grounds are suspicious in advance. A judge can value that. Secondly, explication ensures better safeguards in the legislative process. And that's us. As soon as we see a law that differentiates on the basis of sexual orientation or disability, it imposes a heavier obligation on us to look critically at such a law. Thirdly, explicitation offers social protection. Citizens can also invoke the Constitution in everyday life, without a judge being involved. The Constitution is simpler for an individual to appeal to and speaks more than, for example, the General Law on Equal Treatment. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Werner asked how we would ensure that discrimination on the basis of age, for example, is not regarded as less serious than discrimination on the basis of the stated grounds. The initiators agree with Mrs Werner that other grounds of discrimination should not be taken less seriously, but grounds that are not mentioned are less easily regarded as suspected in advance. That just doesn't mean we shouldn't be alert. We all have to carry that out. Mr. Chairman. Then I would like to respond to the substantive points made by Mrs Kathmann. One of these points was that the incorporation into the Constitution is a confirmation of progress and anchoring. That's a good thing. Mrs Kathmann also drew attention to the fact that it is certainly not finished with this. An addition to the Constitution is not a final point. You could also call it, as mentioned earlier, an assignment to the States-General and the government. Mrs Kathmann said an interim award. That's what the initiators like to say. Mrs Kathmann also asked a number of questions. Firstly, she asked whether the initiators could go into the meaning of "sex" in Article 1 even though the proposal is not about this. The initiators consider that, as Mr Hammelburg said, the non-discrimination ground "sex" deserves a broad definition. This means that gender identity and gender expression are included and that this definition goes beyond just the binary distinction between men and women. This is also in line with existing legislation, in particular the General Law on Equal Treatment. Mr Kathmann also asked how the initiators saw the government's efforts to combat discrimination on grounds of disability and sexual orientation. Firstly, it is about increasing legal protection. It is therefore a good thing for the initiators that more money goes to the College of Human Rights, for example. They may also be policy programmes, as the Minister pointed out at first reading. We look forward to the Minister's reply on this point. Mrs Kathmann then asked about the definition of "forbidden sexual preferences." The initiators are clear about this: by sexual orientation they mean sexual preferences that relate to the sex of another person. Pedophilia and zoophilia are and remain a criminal offence, provided that they are implemented. Finally, Mrs Kathmann raised the question of whether the power of Article 1 could be increased by abolishing the ban on testing. It is very likely that the strength of Article 1 will increase. In what way exactly depends on what such abolition looks like. If only Article 120 were to be abolished and ordinary judges could review laws formally against the Constitution, it would increase the legal force of Article 1. Article 1 has now been developed in equal treatment legislation, but its operation is limited. For example, the AWGB applies in a limited number of areas. We are talking about labour, goods and services, the free professions, membership of trade unions and professional associations, and social protection. Also the special equal treatment laws, such as the Equal Treatment Act on the basis of age, the Equal Treatment Act on the basis of disability or chronic illness, and the Equal Treatment Act between Men and Women do not work in all areas. Article 1 of the Constitution does not have that limitation in scope and also operates vertically, from government to citizens. There is no need to argue that this is deeply problematic. Secondly, equal treatment legislation has only a limited number of non-discrimination grounds, where Article 1 has the residual category "any ground'. Mr. Chairman. Then I go on to Mr Ellian's contribution from the VVD. I see Mr Strolenberg sitting in the Chamber; it is good that you are here. Mr Ellian's contribution was brief and did not contain any questions, but let us also bear in mind the contribution of the lawyers in the Chamber. Mr Ellian referred to the second most important article of today, Article 137 of the Constitution. That article prescribes the procedure to be followed in order to amend the Constitution. Today we are implementing the fourth paragraph of that Rule, namely the second reading. This means that a two-thirds majority has to be agreed on separately in both chambers in order to finalise an amendment. Mr Ellian's contribution pointed out that it would also be possible to narrow the text down to "any ground." To this end, Mr Bishop made a proposal at first reading. But as Mr Ellian himself pointed out, it is about personal characteristics that are so fundamentally part of who you are that an addition is appropriate. In addition, the grounds we mention have a history of disadvantage and in many cases even persecution. I would like to thank Mr Ellian, through you, President, for his reflection on this proposal, all the more so because this proposal has been the subject of a major debate within his party prior to the first reading. I am therefore pleased that we, as initiators, can enjoy the support of Mr Ellian, Mr Strolenberg and the VVD. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I would like to comment on Mr Ceder's contribution. Mr Ceder, who unfortunately is not here, had a fine speech in which he dealt with, among other things, the inner dignity of man and how it relates to the principle of equal treatment. He also reflected on the fact that many countries do not have a constitution and that things are often fine there. That's right. We see that Britain can also function without a written constitution. But there too there is a constitution, albeit in the broader sense of the word. Our Dutch constitution in that broader sense includes more than the 142 articles that together are our Constitution. It can also be said that organic laws such as the Tickets Act and the Municipal Law are part of our constitution. This also applies to unwritten rules of state law, certain international conventions and generally recognised legal principles. Mr Ceder also looked for the deeper meaning of the principle of equality, also philosophizing about Christian democracy. You can see here that the principle of equality is widely supported in all three movements that are dominant in the Netherlands. For the social democratic movement, the Christian Democratic movement and the liberal movement, the principle of equality takes a fundamental place. Mr Ceder also asked a bit philosophically whether Article 1 is the coat rack on which the rest of the Constitution hangs. Mr Ceder then asked whether there was a hierarchy of fundamental rights. That's not true. One fundamental right is equivalent to another. In certain cases, fundamental rights may clash. Then there must be a balance to be made. Often that will be up to us, as legislators. In concrete situations, that lies with the judge. Those are important considerations. Sometimes fundamental rights will have to be restricted, because in a specific situation a different fundamental right prevails. In addition, the initiators refer to what was discussed earlier in replying to Mr Bishop's questions. Mr Ceder also asked how the initiators looked at the implementation of the UN Convention on Handicap on Bonaire, Sint-Eustatius and Saba. In the European Netherlands, this UN Convention has been ratified and implemented. This has also led to some legislative changes such as the Equal Treatment Act for People with Disabilities or Chronic Diseases, and the Tickets Act, which has also been amended. It says that voting rooms should be accessible to everyone. The initiators are also familiar with the motion-Van der Graaf c.s. on the implementation of the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities in the Caribbean Netherlands. D66, GroenLinks and the Labour Party supported that motion. As far as the initiators are concerned, the UN Disability Convention is fully implemented on Bonaire, Sint-Eustatius and Saba. Perhaps the Minister will be able to report on the progress of this work and the various projects that are working on it. Mr. Chairman. I think all the questions that have been asked to the initiators have now been answered. If anything else has slipped away, we are happy to return to that in the second term. Article 1 is not just an article, not simply because it is the first article in our Constitution, but because it promotes a principle that is reflected throughout the legal system, from contract law to proportional voting rights. Today we discussed in particular the second sentence of Article 1. Amending the Constitution is a long process. It's like a marathon, but it's also like a relay. At the start, members Van der Ham, Azough and Timmer had the stick. Mrs. Van Tongeren took over Mrs. Azough's place some time later. Afterwards it was members Bergkamp, Özütok and Van den Hul who passed the sign indicating that the change was halfway through. Now we have been allowed to take over the baton. This is the second reading. Many substantive points have already been discussed at first reading. We can say that the second half, when it comes to the effort, was a little more downhill as a result of a lot of preparation for a change to the Constitution. I would therefore like once again to thank the previous initiators for all the work they have done. I would also like to thank once again all the staff who have supported us and all the staff who have done so in the past. It is certainly quite a task for the Chamber. Finally, I would like to thank all the Members who have contributed to a worthy debate today and also on 9 December. That is what the Constitution serves. I hope that the required two-thirds majority will vote for this proposal in this Chamber. Thank you, Mr President, for the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-9.u11	Thank you, Mr. Hope. Then I will give the floor to the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations to answer a number of questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-9.u12	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I would like to thank Mr Hammelburg for his very sensitive remarks. The Constitution calls for deeper reflection, and Mr Hammelburg has put it very well. I heard the initiators, Mr Hammelburg, Mr De Hoop and Mrs Bromet, who unfortunately are not here, thank all the previous initiators for the much work they have done, as well as our President of the House of Representatives. This gives me the opportunity as a minister to express my thanks to the initiators and, most certainly, to the co-workers without them, it simply cannot be done for the stub and support they have provided, but also for the excellent work that has been done. I know from experience that civil society organisations are often very willing to think with and to bring forward certain proposals. They often play a major role in own-initiative proposals. You can make an initiative proposal as a Member of Parliament, but if you make an initiative proposal for the Constitution, that is the absolute minimum. That is very special, because constitutional reforms in this Chamber are not the order of the day, although we live in a special era with each other, because, since 1983, we have at present had the most constitutional reforms ever. And then this constitutional review is in a special relationship with all the others. It is an initiative proposal, a very nice proposal to explicitly include the grounds of disability and sexual orientation alongside all other mentioned grounds of religion, belief, political orientation, race and gender. I think that the initiators have very well expressed the fact that, on the one hand, this was already introduced in 1994 in the equal treatment legislation and, on the other hand, that similar protection was introduced in 2003 for people with disabilities. But that is not equal to giving a place to sexual orientation and disability in Article 1 of the Constitution. The cabinet can therefore only wholeheartedly support this initiative. As an advisor, I do so, in modesty, because the work is done by the initiators. Mr. Chairman. A number of questions have been asked to me. I made cubes out of that. The first is the questions about disability and sexual orientation, then a number of specific questions about people with disabilities, then Mrs van der Laan's question about increasing the awareness of Article 1 of the Constitution and some of Mr Bishop's questions about the Constitution as such. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Kathmann asked if the Minister considered that it would be more difficult to reverse the rights of Ihbti'ers. Yes, I share that view. In fact, a constitution can be changed much less easily than a law in a formal sense. So the grounds can also be removed less easily. It also points out once again that the addition is important to state unequivocally that discrimination based on sexual orientation and disability is contrary to our shared values. It is not only in the Constitution, but we also see that in many town halls, in the Lower House and in police stations, Article 1 of the Constitution is sometimes literally on the wall. During integration courses, new Dutch people must memorize Article 1. It is therefore not only the inclusion in the Constitution, but also the further anchoring in our society of the importance of the grounds of sexual orientation and disability. In this context, Mrs Kröger asked how we can ensure that citizens feel that discrimination is being combated more and better. Last week we held an extensive debate on discrimination, racism and human rights. There are a number of things that have been reviewed. I would like to take back a number of important issues from that debate. We recently established the National Coordinator against Discrimination and Racism. That's a difference from a year ago. It has been commissioned to come up with a national programme against discrimination and racism, which we are all about to implement. That's a really important step. One step we still have to take together is to set up a state committee on discrimination and racism. That is at the request of the House of Representatives and we are currently working intensively to achieve this. If people experience discrimination, they must be able to report it and they must be helped. Last week, I announced that I would launch an investigation to improve the reporting process. Mr. Chairman. What is the Minister going to do to combat discrimination on grounds of disability and sexual orientation? That was a question from Mrs Kathmann. First of all, the cabinet is committed to not letting the stereotypical image of masculinity and femininity be so black and white. Those views make it sometimes a threshold for the emancipation of many in our society who feel different. These views also play a role in the emergence and continuation of gender-based violence and discrimination. I think it is terrible that this is happening, and that is why it is so important that we explicitly include disability and sexual orientation in the Constitution, as the initiators propose. There are concrete actions, which the Minister of Education, Culture and Science is working on. Through the gender and LGBTI equality funding scheme, he has entered into a strategic cooperation with civil society organisations that are committed to combating discrimination. Those are the so-called alliances. The scheme was due to expire this year, but will continue in the period 2022 to 2027. In it you will see really beautiful initiatives, which focus on social acceptance and security, such as Shared pride, shared happiness of the COC. It's good and good that this is happening. The cabinet also focuses on increasing the participation of people with disabilities or disability and combats discrimination by ensuring that everyone is given the opportunity to participate. This is done, among other things, by the Programme Unlimited Participation, which was initiated following the implementation of the UN Convention on Handicap. This isn't just government stuff. Fortunately, society is also very much involved in helping and cooperating to achieve this, in municipalities, businesses and civil society organisations. We must continue to join forces to ensure that we move forward with each other. There is still a lot of work to be done to treat people in our Netherlands equally. For this purpose, this Constitutional proposal is a very important contribution, in order to make it clear once again to people with disabilities or in the context of sexual orientation that discrimination is prohibited, that it really cannot and cannot be done, and that it should never be tolerated. Mr. Chairman. Then there is Mrs Kröger's question about the rights of people with disabilities. That question was about joining the optional protocol to the UN Disability Convention. My predecessor said a year ago that there was an investigation going on at the time. That is a UN review on the functioning of the treaty committees. It should provide a better understanding of the functioning of the financial and legal implications in the interests of decision-making. What is the impact on the Dutch legal system? What does that mean financially? What does that mean legally? We've been looking into that. The evaluation is delayed by unknown time. That's how I'll describe it. That's gonna take me too long. The idea is to ask the Council of State for information on the legal and financial implications of ratifying the optional protocols to the UN Convention on Disability, the International Convention on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights and the International Convention on the Rights of the Child. On the basis of this information from the Council of State, the cabinet intends to take further steps into consideration. I'll tell Mrs Kröger it'll take too long. We need to go another way to get good advice. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Van der Laan had a very important point. She asked if the Minister would ensure that, hopefully, not only the Minister but many people with me would be able to obtain a new text of Article 1 of the Constitution. Mrs. Van der Laan used to be a top athlete. You don't have to celebrate victory until it does. The initiators must complete this debate properly and we still have to complete the debate in the First Chamber. Nevertheless, it is important to think ahead with each other about the steps we are going to take. This includes, of course, the announcement of the new text. The standard things are of course publication on Rijkssoverheid.nl and bringing the text to the attention of the various civil society organisations. They're in here, too, so they'll do the same. Mr. Chairman. I will go into 175 years of the Constitution in a moment, but apart from that, I am also thinking of the following. If we walk out of the old House of Representatives, we'll find out about it at the Constitutional Court. This is a monument that the city of The Hague has given to the government. It contains the complete text of Article 1 of the Constitution as it stands. I want to find out what we're going to do with the Constitutional Bank if this bill is passed and entered into force. That is a commitment to the initiators. The Constitutional Bank is an important expression of the importance of Article 1 of the Constitution. I am not yet ready to know who owns the Constitutional Bank and how it works, but to Mrs Van der Laan and the initiators I will say that I am going to find out how to get the right text on the Constitutional Bank and what steps are needed to do so. I think it would be very good to link that moment to more familiarity. Apart from that, the Constitution will exist for some time 175 years, as the initiators said very clearly. In this context, I would like to see what initiatives we can take and what we can do about it. My idea of 175 years of Constitution in 2023 is that I will inform the Chamber in the course of 2022 about what we can do in it. As far as the Constitutional Bank is concerned, I am going to find out how and what, because I think that will be a very important, visible change. Mr. Chairman. Then there are a number of questions from Mr Bishop. They were more about the Constitution as such. He asked about the classification of fundamental rights and whether it was not time to move Article 1. I would like to point out that all fundamental rights in this respect are equivalent. I say to Mr Bishop that you must also stick to tradition. He must love tradition, too. Since 1983, almost 40 years ago, we have written down fundamental rights in a certain way in the Constitution. I'm committed to sticking to that tradition. I see that Mr Bishop is very much of a change, but I would particularly like to stick to the tradition in this area, I say to Mr Bishop. Mr. Chairman. Then there are Mrs Kathmann's questions on constitutional review. That was a year ago, but now we have a new coalition agreement. Together with the Minister for Legal Protection, I have been specifically instructed to work on constitutional review and to see which form of constitutional review is best suited to the Dutch legal system. I have now promised the Permanent Committee on the Interior that, together with the Minister for Legal Protection, I will come to the Chamber with a general letter, before I come forward with a legislative proposal, so that the Chamber can discuss the constitutional review properly. As the initiators already point out, there are many different forms in which you can work that out. I would like to expressly involve the Chamber in this. Then there was a question from Mr Bishop about gender identity. He asked: what are the objectivable characteristics in this? I would like to say very emphatically to Mr Bishop that the definition of the World Health Organization is extremely clear. It reads: a person's deep felt, internal and individual experience of gender, which may or may not correspond to the person's physiology or designated sex at birth. The terms "deeply felt" and "individual" make it something that can be determined. You can tell if something is really deep, and it is. Mr. Chairman. Those were the questions that were asked to me during the previous debate. A question has also been asked about the situation in Saba and how it stands there. It has been played very charmingly to me by the initiators. For this, I need to contact my colleague from VWS. I'm gonna see if I can pull that off before the second term. If that does not work, I will make sure that that information reaches this Chamber in another way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-9.u13	I would like to thank the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations for their reply. I propose that we start immediately with the second term on the side of the Chamber and first give the floor to Mrs Kröger van GroenLinks. It's nice to hear that we're also getting a customized bench from the government. I'll take that as a commitment. I call Mrs Kröger.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-9.u14	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna be very brief. I would like to thank the initiators and the Minister very much for the answer. It is an honorable and special time to be here to discuss this initiative legislative proposal. I miss my colleague Mrs Bromet in Vak-K. That would've done it. My group will be very proud to vote in favour of this proposal. I wish the initiators every success with the next step in the Upper House. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-9.u15	Thank you, Mrs Kröger. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Van der Laan of D66. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-9.u16	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll be brief, too. Thanks to the proposers and to the staff for the wonderful work. It is, of course, clear that I am in favour of this constitutional change. It hits me, it hits D66. In the light of current events, I think it is extremely important that we continue to fight for equality, for human rights and for personal freedoms. I fully support that, so thank you for reinvigorating this discussion here in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-9.u17	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Werner of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-9.u18	Mr. Chairman. Today we say that discrimination on grounds of disability is not allowed, that discrimination on the grounds of sexual orientation is not allowed. That is not news, but we think it is so important that we have it in the Constitution. If you're excluded because of your disability, you have a big problem. If you're excluded because of your sexual orientation, you have a big problem. Today we say: if you are excluded, we have a problem; society is not complete if you are excluded. Paper's patient. The paper on which the Constitution is written is patient. Article 1 of the Constitution is not an end point. If the completed article 1 is in the Official Journal, we're not done. Article 1 of the Constitution is a task. An assignment to look at society through the eyes of another. It's an assignment not to overlook anyone. An assignment to all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-9.u19	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Kathmann of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-9.u20	Thank you, Mr President, and thank you once again to these authors, to their predecessors and, as the Minister rightly said, to the staff, because we sometimes forget that. Those people behind the scenes, including Bureau of Legislation, are working hard to make this possible. That is particularly important today, because it is a constitutional change. That's why I find it so special to be standing here. It always feels like you're standing on the shoulders of giants, who have already meant so much for that sense of equality for all those Dutch over the years. Thank you also for the careful response and certainly for the introduction, which addressed the atrocities that are now taking place in Ukraine. Thank you for weighing up whether we should allow this debate to continue, but even more thank you for thinking: we should do so! In times of war, you must cherish our Constitution, because that is why we are as free as we are. We do not realize that often enough. That is thanks to the Constitution. Thank you also for the answer given by the Minister, especially on the subject of constitutional review. Thank you for that extensive hand in the sense that the cabinet is going to talk about it very extensively with the Chamber. I'm standing here a little bit with a lump in my throat. I'm a little emotional. That's because the chairman of the COC is there. I was just waving at her. Then such an emotion passes through you, because you can see from her glance how many expectations the entire supporters, but also a lot of disabled people at home and their loved ones and everyone who fights for equality follow this and wish everyone success in the future. People are really looking forward to that feeling of equality being anchored. That Article 1 protects all of us. Especially if you are to be explicitly mentioned in Article 1, that gives that equality an extra boost. But we're not there yet. Mr De Hoop has already referred to it: it is only a crowning achievement of a kind of interim work on equality. Now there's work to be done. I am also very pleased with the Minister's reply. She wants to do this very carefully, but it is an assignment for all of us in the Netherlands to continue that work. I wish the authors every success in the future. At least we as the Labour Party are going to sit on top of it like a watchdog to get that work to the store all socially anchored if it is to be settled successfully. I actually wish everyone success for all of us.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-9.u21	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Strolenberg of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-9.u22	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This is a memorable moment. It is an honour for me to say a final word about this in this last term. Many arguments have already been exchanged on the subject. Thank you for the many answers from the authors. I would also like to thank the support for the many work. For the VVD equivalence is an important principle, which is very important. As Mr De Hoop said, it is also one of our liberal principles, which we stand for and advocate. Everyone has the same right to freedom and opportunities, regardless of your skin colour, your orientation, your gender or your nationality. It doesn't matter to us. Discrimination on any ground is unacceptable to us. The principle of non-discrimination implies recognition and respect for people, and that is one of the most important foundations of our rule of law. We should be proud of that. There is an important signal effect of the addition of disability and sexual orientation. In fact, I have nothing but to say that we will be voting in favour of this important proposal. We hope that soon we will all be able to sit on a bench with a modified text. That's what I'm gonna say to the Minister, to encourage him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-9.u23	I fully agree with that. I give the floor to Mrs Leijten van de SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-9.u24	Mr. Chairman. I think the outcome of this debate is that the bench is arranged! Anyway, that's what the Minister himself is about. I looked it up. Mr Hammelburg and Mr De Hoop spend 344 days in the House of Representatives. I've seen MPs take longer before they've passed a bill; let alone a constitutional change. Indeed: do not praise the day before it is over. It hasn't been accepted yet. As I said in the first term, the SP Group has a double feeling in this debate. But we also see what it adds. That is why we said in the first round that we agree. I am going with Mr Hammelburg very much. Every time, we fall back on the level of discrimination that is normally found in our society. But that's not normal, not based on disability, based on sexual orientation, based on where you were born, based on your first or second nationality, based on your color or on your socio-economic class. I think that awareness is getting stronger, partly because of the surcharge scandal but also because of other things. I think we are having a good debate on this in the House of Representatives. Let's just say that. That's what the Minister referred to. I also very much agree with the CDA's words. If we get it vigorously in the Constitution, we will only have a greater mandate to eradicate discrimination in our society. Mrs Werner said it nicely: no one should be excluded; everyone is part of it. That's just not in everyone's head. It really isn't. We cannot actually have a debate on this for long enough, rather than on something we did this afternoon. Anyway, enough about that. I would like to congratulate you, including the support, because I see what the vote is in the Chamber. I hope that's the case in the First Chamber. As the last spokesman on behalf of the Lower House, let me congratulate you on defending the proposal in the Upper House.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-9.u25	Thank you very much, Mrs Leijten. This brings us to the end of the second term on the side of the Chamber. I will give the proposers the final word, because no motions have been tabled. That's refreshing!
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-9.u26	No, Mr. Chairman, and I'm not sure I have a minute or an hour left. But I certainly will not use it, given the time and debate that has taken place in this respect, which has also taken a long time. Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Members of Parliament very much, especially the Members of Parliament who are still here and who have asked a number of very legal and critical questions. It is also important that the process of amending a Constitution is careful. Because, as the Minister did not say quite wrongly, that has not happened since 1983 for Article 1. That's a really special moment. Mrs Leijten, you didn't say quite wrong: we won't be there until we get there. We therefore call on all parties in the Chamber to vote in favour of this proposal next week. That's what we're hoping for, so we can take it to the First Chamber for the second reading. Finally, let me say that it may begin with the inclusion of these grounds of discrimination in Article 1 of the Constitution. But here's what I'm tasting with all the MPs. That was also in my contribution and in Mr De Hoop's contribution, and certainly also in the mind and in the experience of Mrs Bromet, who unfortunately is not with us today. I can tell that the anchoring of the fundamental rights of people with disabilities and those with disabilities is only the beginning, and that social change is still necessary in the Netherlands too. Because discrimination against people with disabilities and those with disabilities is so common. It's been bothering me myself. There are many MPs who have suffered from this. My call would be next. Again, my gesture to anyone who is watching or getting anything from this, anyone who is disabled or lhbti: feel strengthened by the support from the Chamber, from all the MPs who have spoken here today. We are continuing this mission for equality and anchoring in good policy. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-9.u27	Thank you, Mr. Hammelburg. I shall then give the floor to Mr De Hoop, perhaps also for a final word. Then we'll go to the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-9.u28	Mr. Chairman. It is very special to be standing here today, in this treatment. The warmth of all Members here in the Chamber for the proposal that we were allowed to defend again today, I think, is wonderful. I am proud that we are allowed to be part of the struggle that has been taking place all these years. I hope for broad support from the House of Representatives. But when I hear it like that, it's gonna be all right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-9.u29	Thank you, Mr. Hope. I'm looking at the minister. We'll clean first for a short while. It's moving fast. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-9.u30	Mr. Chairman. In the first period, the initiators had passed on a question to me. It was about supporting the BES islands. I've managed to reach my colleague from VWS. My colleague states that they are indeed supporting the BES Islands, Bonaire, Saint Eustatius and Saba, in the implementation of the UN Disability Convention. The scale of the islands and local conditions require a completely different approach from that of the European Netherlands. This also justifies a more individual approach. This individual approach ensures that people with disabilities can be helped as effectively as possible in the different areas in which they experience obstacles. What do you have to think about? In recent years, the VWS Ministry has made funds available to public bodies to implement projects, for example adapting homes of people who are wheelchair dependent and ensuring that public spaces such as beaches and playgrounds are much more accessible. Saba has also helped people who want to live independently at home because of physical constraints, to adapt their homes. So that is a much more focused approach. There are also plans for sheltered living and a second social workshop on Saba. Those are the plans that are in place right now. Sint-Eustatius has not been asked for, but there has been investment in leading people with disabilities to a social workplace. Several initiatives are therefore being taken. They are particularly individually targeted, also because the scale of the islands is, of course, a different scale than that of the European Netherlands. Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to wish the initiators a great deal of success in the follow-up. I would also like to thank them for the pleasure with which I listened to Mr Hammelburg's and Mr De Hoop's replies. I would also like to thank Mrs Bromet, who is not here today, for her commitment. I want to end with what I thought was a nice quote from Mrs. Werner. That quote is: Article 1 of the Constitution is an assignment to look at society through the eyes of another. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-9.u31	Thank you. That concludes this debate. Once again, I would like to thank the authors, as well as their support, Bureau of Legislation and the Minister, the Members of Parliament, the people who have followed the debate in the public gallery and the viewers at home.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-9.u32	We're going to vote on the bill on Tuesday. I wish the initiators every success, because the votes are always exciting, I know from my own experience. Thanks to everyone, and I'll close the meeting.
