ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-7.u1	The next item is the fourth deadline for the debate on the declaration of government. The Chamber has previously agreed to Mr Van Rooijen's request for a short fourth deadline for tabling a motion. I would like to welcome the Minister for Poverty Policy, Participation and Pensions to the First Chamber. I give the floor to Mr Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-7.u2	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank my colleagues for the fourth term. My group appreciates the maintenance of the link between the AOW and the additional 7.5% increase in the minimum wage. My group does not appreciate the cigars from its own box because of the measures to cover the cost of this coupling. In particular, 50PLUS does not appreciate the planned abolition of income support, but the income support AOW is the so-called IOAOW for all AOW workers. This reduces the increase in the AOW by €333. The partner-AOW continues to raise this 7.5% by over €800 and the abolition of the IOAOW reduces the AOW by €333. This particularly affects people with only AOW or with a very small pension. That's a million people who don't pay taxes either. Hence the next motion. The: Mr Van Rooijen proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Cabinet maintains the link between the AOW and the additional increase in the minimum wage;]] [[Whereas the Cabinet proposes the abolition of income support AOW, the so-called IOAOW, for all AOWs;]] [[Considering that the AOW's have to pay the increase from their own pockets;]] [[calls on the cabinet to cover the proposal in a different way, which does not specifically concern AOWs,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35788-Z]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-7.u3	Yes, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-7.u4	Thank you, Mr. Van Rooijen. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the fourth term? That is not the case. Minister, are you in a position to respond directly? That's the case. I shall then give the floor to the Minister for Poverty Policy, Participation and Pensions. I'm gonna suspend for a minute pending the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-7.u5	I give the floor to the Minister for Poverty Policy, Participation and Pensions. Mr. Van Rooijen, you may sit down.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-7.u6	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you also to Mr Van Rooijen for tabling the motion. As your Chamber knows, the government in the spring decision-making has decided to increase the AOW with the minimum wage, the so-called link. To cover this, a number of issues are taken together. That is, on the one hand, the reversal of the announced increase in the elderly discount from the coalition agreement, which is EUR 700 million and the phasing out of income support AOW, the ILO. The higher old age discount could not be paid for all AOW's, especially for those with the lowest AOW. The higher AOW does reach all AOW's. This is also beneficial for those who have a small or a low AOW. On balance, therefore, this interpretation leads to a higher improvement in AOW beneficiaries in particular with a low supplementary pension than in the implementation of the coalition agreement. The higher AOW also makes having an income support AOW less necessary. In addition, this motion also does not provide for alternative coverage. It's actually being returned to the cabinet. If a motion is tabled, then it is good practice to consider where the cover could be found. That is not the case with this motion. That is why the Cabinet is committed to maintaining the coverage in the Spring Note, including the abolition of the IOAOW in steps. That's why I have to discourage this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-7.u7	Thank you, Minister. Mr Van Rooijen has another interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-7.u8	Yes. The Minister also said that the increase in the elderly discount, which was initially linked to the decoupling of the AOW, does not work for those who do not pay taxes, the AOWs. That's 1 million, according to the FNV's calculations. This means that if the decoupling proposal had gone ahead, not only would there have to be an increase in the elderly discount, which costs EUR 600 million, but that for 1 million poor AOWs, who do not pay taxes, another compensation should have been made as a variant of the elderly discount. That would probably have cost an additional EUR 1 billion for 1 million elderly people, poor AOWs. In other words, those original proposals did not yield 2.1 billion minus 600 million, i.e. 1.5 billion, but up to 0.5 billion. After all, if you give an elderly discount to elderly people who do pay taxes, you should certainly also provide a facility, a concession to the 1 million AOWs who do not pay taxes at the bottom. In other words, the proposal that you had at first yielded almost nothing. For this reason, it is already strange to ask for cover for this proposal now. Finally, I would like to point out the following. An official note from the Treasury states: "Because the increase in the AOW benefits the elderly, it may be logical to seek the remaining coverage from this group as well." That's a new doctrine. If the grant is introduced for students, students do not have to pay the extra costs themselves. If family allowances are indexed again, fortunately, families with children will not have to pay those costs. But if the AOWs get an improvement, other than the cabinet wanted, they have to pay it back from their own pockets to a large extent. You get a partner-AOW, which goes up by €800, but that goes up by €330. So half of the cabinet's link is decoupled.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-7.u9	Thank you, Mr. Van Rooijen. Minister, do you wish to respond?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-7.u10	Yes. There are a number of assumptions in Mr Van Rooijen's speech. First he says: if the old people's discount had continued as it had gone on, then the cabinet should also have compensated the lowest incomes. That's an assumption of himself. It's not like this was laid down in a coalition agreement or anything like that. But we also saw ourselves that it was important to reach the lowest income groups as well. It didn't work out with the other discount. You can do that if you put the whole AOW together. So the assumption of Mr Van Rooijen, "that would have happened anyway," was not a starting point. There really has to be a look at what kind of cover you put on the other side. In addition, Mr Van Rooijen says that it is actually all a pocket pocket. That's not true. Mr Van Rooijen also knows that extra money has just gone to this group in order to make this link possible in relation to the coalition agreement. So it's not like the elderly, in their entirety, are paying this amount all by themselves. There is also additional money that has been found externally, so not among the elderly target group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-7.u11	If I hear you correctly, you actually acknowledge that the original proposal to decouple the AOW was a very stupid proposal. Because you're saying, if the AOW had been decoupled, we wouldn't have the old-age discount. Then we should increase the old-age discount for those who pay taxes. But if I say that then it would be logical for you to do something for the 1 million AOWs who do not pay taxes and therefore have nothing to do with that higher discount, then you say: yes, Mr Van Rooijen, but that is an assumption and that is not the cabinet's proposal. So if you had kept that proposal, then you would have come up with an antisocial proposal, by decoupling the AOW, not raising it by 7.5%, and only allowing the people with an AOW and a pension, who do pay taxes, to benefit from the increase in the elderly discount. But the 1 million people who don't pay taxes only with AOW or AOW'ers with a very small pension you send them into the woods.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-7.u12	There's a lot of assumptions in this. It's a kind of rhetoric I'm not used to: if you'd done this, you probably should have. I note that we have a coalition agreement. There were a number of choices in that. The cabinet has reversed some of these choices in the spring decision-making process. That's what we're talking about today. This is, among other things, not raising the elderly discount but putting money into the entire target group of the AOW, but also ensuring that the AOW remains linked to the increase in the legal minimum wage. We do this, among other things, by using part of IOAOW, but also external money and the elderly discount. De facto, therefore, extra money goes to the group of older people.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-7.u13	Finally, Mr. Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-7.u14	Does the Minister recognise that it is very strange that, if the AOW is finally linked, the AOWs themselves will have to pay most of those additional costs? Apparently, that's a doctrine on finance in official notes. I'm gonna distance myself from that. Surely it can't be that if the AOW goes up, the AOWs will have to pay for it themselves? This is a new political doctrine: the workers get relief and they don't have to pay them back, but if the elderly get relief or an increase in the AOW, they have to pay for it themselves. I'm gonna distance myself from that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-7.u15	Finally, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-7.u16	I would now like to make the point that there is additional money to create this link. That money does not come from the elderly, but is added to the link from other coverage options. The image that the elderly themselves pay for this increase is far from my point of view.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-7.u17	I have a quick question. Is the cabinet's intention to link the AOW to raising the minimum wage, motivated by the majority ruling in this Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-7.u18	There have been several reasons for this. Among other things, there was a motion from the First Chamber, but we also looked at the purchasing power development of older people with lower incomes among others. The point that inflation is higher than at the time of the coalition agreement concluded has also been taken into account in the whole of the options presented to your Chamber in the spring decision-making process.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-7.u19	However, may I conclude that for you, the decisive argument for thinking in this direction arose as a result of this Chamber's ruling?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-7.u20	There are several reasons why that thought has evolved in this way. The motion tabled and adopted in this Chamber has contributed to this, but it has also contributed to our own perception of the development of the purchasing power of older people, particularly those with lower incomes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-7.u21	Now the answers are longer than the questions, but okay. It's pretty clear to me. I have a second question. Do you share the view that the AOWs themselves are responsible for the costs of this policy idea?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-7.u22	I think I have already explained that three times in reply to Mr Van Rooijen's question. In part, there is money in it that we had reserved, for example, for the elderly discount, which had not yet been allocated. We gave that to the AOW. Part of the money comes from the IOAOW. Those are resources that are already in the domain. A part is money that has come from another cover in the whole of things. You can also find the coverage options that have been used in the Spring Note. They didn't strike down in the elderly's domain.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-7.u23	Why does it take so much effort to say yes or no to a question?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-7.u24	Because it's not yes or no. I said there are several elements. For the sake of clarity, the answer is no, because external money has also gone to the elderly.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-7.u25	But if the question is what's long, it's an argument. But if the question is short, I get an argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-7.u26	I don't hear a question. That's a statement.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-7.u27	No, this is a theorem. But I thought you might want to reflect on that. If that is not the case, then I have one last question and it is about the lack of coverage. We have sympathy for Mr Van Rooijen's motion. The House of Representatives has, with broad support, tabled a motion without cover to spend more money on defence. Is that right? That happens from time to time, of course, and it is about substantial money. Can't you say that a motion asking for more money without cover is less valuable than a motion with cover?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-7.u28	If there is coverage, then we know that there may also be support here for the cover that is being laid down. I note that, at the time we come with cover, I am having another debate here about the coverage that is going to be used. If you really want the Cabinet to realise certain things, then it is wise that you clarify what coverage options you see and that you agree with each other. In general, it is good practice to ensure that cover is also provided when a motion asks for money to be transferred from one side to the other.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-7.u29	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-7.u30	Yeah, maybe finally. I agree with the Minister that it is a good use, but it is not always necessary. By opposition and coalition there are sometimes substantial questions to the cabinet, which have a financial impact without any cover. Let me give you the example of defence, with broad political support.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-7.u31	That's right, but I'm also saying it's good use. So I'm not saying it can't be done or it can't be done. All I'm saying is that the motion will increase in strength if there's a cover on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-7.u32	Speaking of cover. Mr Van Rooijen was Secretary of State for Finance in the Den Uyl cabinet during the oil crisis in 1973. At that time Mr Van Rooijen intervened very adequately by immediately increasing the tax rebates, the duty-free amounts, and introducing a new 20% disc for the lowest incomes. That was very timely and adequate at the time, with rising energy prices. However, the crisis is now far worse. Why do we wait so long for the cabinet to come up with such measures, regardless of coverage? That cover can be found, but we don't have to talk about it now. It is located in the Groningen soil, for EUR 1,000 billion. My question is why you do not come up with a tax reform for the lowest incomes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-7.u33	I hear there's a cover option being given to pump up more Groningen gas. Then I would also like to hear if there is broad support in this Chamber to handle this coverage. You know the cabinet's point of view. We have said: in the very last emergency, when hospitals are really out of gas, we are only going to use it. The cabinet doesn't want to pump up any more gas in Groningen to find cover for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-7.u34	Finally, Mr Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-7.u35	I welcome Mr Otten's comment, in the sense that he is the cabinet-den Uyl... I am still very fond of that cabinet, as I say to colleagues from the Labour Party, GroenLinks and the CDA. The Den Uyl cabinet introduced that net link in 1975, during the crisis. The Van Agt/Wiegel cabinet laid this down by law in the famous WAM, the Adaptation Mechanisms Act. I was there. That link has been in existence for 45 years. Then it is bizarre that the coalition agreement says on the one hand that the link is maintained, with three words in brackets, now comes the word 'except the AOW'. That's three words to serve 3.3 million AOWs. If you come up with an antisocial proposal, you can't ask us to cover it. The withdrawal of an antisocial proposal, in which the elderly nevertheless... The anti-social proposal is withdrawn, but there is a partial anti-social proposal in place. What's your answer?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-7.u36	Finally, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-7.u37	I note that Mr Van Rooijen had a proposal which he could not accept. I'm not taking over his words. The cabinet has done exactly what it has asked for, namely linking the AOW with the increase in the statutory minimum wage.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-7.u38	Thank you. No, Mr. Van Rooijen, we agreed to ask one question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-7.u39	I propose that we vote on the motion next week. That's a proposition on my part. I'll see if there's any support for that. There's broad support for that. In that case, we're going to vote on the motion next week.
