ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-3.u1	The next item is the Implementation Act for the directives on sales of goods and delivery of digital content.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-3.u2	I shall be the first to give the floor to Mrs Van der Plas. She speaks on behalf of the BoerBurgerBeweging. For the record: in the absence of the real President or the replacement President, in this kind of hopeless situation, I may be of service to you. I hope it's all going well. I wish you a happy working day. I call Mrs van der Plas.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-3.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. President and inhabitants of the Netherlands. The subject on which we are to vote or debate today as a House of Representatives would be dismissed as a hammer piece. This is striking, because it concerns legislation with far-reaching consequences for Dutch people, adopted by the government in European directives. Fortunately, BBB was awake and we had the proposal removed from the list of hammer pieces. That's why we're all sitting here together in this room. The present proposal is legislation with far-reaching consequences for the Dutch market, for the hard-working Dutch entrepreneurs and for citizens. The government's controlling role is not only to control the government, but also to protect citizens from a lack of transparency in legislative processes. It is good that consumers are protected with a longer guarantee period. However, this implementation law is mainly intended to ensure the position of consumers when purchasing normal products. As so often, laws have dangerous side effects, which undermine the position of entrepreneurs. And that at a time when they already feel confronted with an uncertain business environment. We really don't think we can do that. It is perfectly reasonable for buyers to receive reasonable compensation in the event of unforeseen complications. But, Mr. President, suppose you buy a product with a 10-year warranty period and that the product breaks out of your debt after nine and a half years. Then this bill says: by banning the use fee you are entitled to a completely new product. Completely new, while you could easily use the product almost the entire term. Is that merely protecting the consumer, or is this an obstacle to the entrepreneur? This law ensures that both buyer and seller must be aware of the possible financial consequences of a warranty period. We are therefore putting forward a motion to promote greater awareness of the right of guarantee, both for consumers and for entrepreneurs. Then on the period of validity of the warranty period when buying live animals. Of all possible products, this is particularly true where a period of 12 months is unreasonable. Live animals have their own lives. How the animal is treated and housed has more direct and severe influence on the health of the animal than with other products. The "use" of the living animal can therefore have a negative effect on the condition of the living animal. The seller has no influence on that. Let me give you an example. By riding a horse wrong, the animal can have back problems. Is this the fault of the seller if it happens within 12 months? It is also the case in this type of transaction that the buyer of, for example, sports horses usually has enough money or resources to make it very complicated for an entrepreneur in a legal process. It therefore undermines the position of entrepreneurs. As a result, there is a real risk that the sale of expensive sports horses will go underground. It should not be the case that crooked underground trade takes root and that we, because we are so fond of extra rules, not me, by the way, facilitate that. I am therefore tabling an amendment to this subject. It's possible. There is an exception clause in the European directive. I'd like the deadline to go to three months. That is a much more reasonable period than six months, as it is now. That is certainly more reasonable than 12 months, which the EU so much wants. The consumer is still protected and the position of the entrepreneur is not broken down. I think that's as ready as a whistle. If an animal is ill or has an injury within three months, it is reasonable that this is not due to the buyer. After three months, it becomes a legal groom who is guilty of the disease or injury, because, as has been said, the use or residence of the animal can have a significant impact on the state and health of the animal. The seller has no influence on that. Mr President, I shall conclude. In short, it is good that consumers are protected from malicious sellers, but let us not forget the hard-working entrepreneur in our regular drive. He or she must not be duped, because we are all creating bureaucratic bumps here that only make it harder to earn an honest sandwich. Finally, of course, I would like to welcome the Minister to this Chamber. I think it's the first time he's been here. At least, I'm seeing him for the first time. Good luck and welcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-3.u4	Thank you to Mrs van der Plas for the input. It is not quite ready, because it is still being interrupted by Mr Sneller.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-3.u5	I'll raise my finger next time I want my turn. I had a substantive question and a legal question. Let's start with the contents. The Minister, not this Minister, but the Minister for Legal Protection, wrote the following in the explanatory statement and in response to questions from the VVD in the preparatory work on taking legislation seriously. "Not only does this result in less legal protection for consumers than is currently the case, but it also does not contribute to the promotion of more animal-friendly measures. Stricter liability rules can help professional breeders to take more precautions to prevent diseases and deficiencies in animals (animal welfare).' Combined with the legal side, I understand that if you want to exclude animals, or horses, as in the first amendment, you have to exclude all living animals. I wondered how Mrs Van der Plas looks at the negative aspects of this, as the Minister also described.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-3.u6	I don't read directly that there are negative aspects. The Minister writes "can." It doesn't say, "It's gonna happen." It's possible. So we are going to take risks by extending that deadline. What I see very often here is that policies are being made based on mistrust towards someone. That's what we saw in the supplemental scandal. Because a few people are cheating, something has been rigged up to destroy tens of thousands of families. That's exactly what I'm trying to prevent. We have to rely on trust. It is now said that something can happen or that something can happen to animal welfare. No, you really need to make people aware of it. There are already animal welfare rules. It's already a criminal offence to abuse animals. We already have laws for that. We don't have to pack up all kinds of things all the time to make the risk even less. We already have laws for that and there's already control. There is already a huge amount of control by the NVWA. The agricultural sector is the sector most controlled throughout the Netherlands. So I am actually reading that explanatory statement differently from Mr Sneller.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-3.u7	I think Mrs van der Plas' distrust is directed against the buyers. In her speech, Mrs van der Plas said that they would all sue. The horse breeders would then be the pathetic party that is then abused. In my view, that is the distrust Mrs van der Plas places in how she would like to make the rules. That may be true, but we always make rules from the question of what behavior can logically be expected and how we can put the incentives in the legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-3.u8	And the question?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-3.u9	The legal question is then: what are we going to fall back on if we adopt Mrs van der Plas' amendment? Then we'll completely exclude all living animals from the reverse burden of proof? Or are we going back to a shorter term according to Mrs. Van der Plas?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-3.u10	Well, that last one. I'd also like to respond to that first one. I'd pretend buyers are all mean crooks to drag those pathetic entrepreneurs before the judges. I didn't say that at all. That is a conclusion from Mr Sneller. I'd like to leave it with him. We believe that the three-month deadline is reasonable, even if it goes to 12 months. I already mentioned the example of a horse, but you can also talk about a hamster, which is put in a very small, pathetic, dark box with hardly any room for movement, which causes his bones or whatever to wear out. Then someone who has a hamster can also say to a salesman: my hamster is lying here a bit like a dead pier in the booth, pay for it. Twelve months is, of course, a fairly long term. If an animal gets ill within three months or has a condition or an injury, I'm referring to the horse example........................................................................................................................................... We believe that the three-month deadline gives more clarity and guarantees.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-3.u11	Finalizing, Mr. Sneller.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-3.u12	Strictly but justly, you are, Mr. Chairman. The Minister wrote in reply to the VVD's question: "The directive does not, however, allow the deadline for reversing the burden of proof from one year to six months. If the exclusion option provided for in the Directive is used, this means, in practice, that the Directive does not apply and there is no reversal of the burden of proof if a consumer buys a live animal." I am happy to believe Mrs van der Plas, but I ask what she bases it on as she says it is and not as the Minister writes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-3.u13	Mrs. Van der Plas.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-3.u14	You're a good order guard, I'll tell you that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-3.u15	Honestly, I'm just an old schoolmaster.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-3.u16	Sorry, now I'm off my case. We have also spoken to lawyers who say that it is possible. Often things are not a matter of not being able but of not wanting. Our amendment has been tested legally. Otherwise, of course, I wouldn't file it. I'm not just gonna write something down and see what happens. We're gonna file it anyway. Everyone in the Chamber is free to vote for it or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-3.u17	Clear, thank you very much. I realise that I have made a serious omission, but that is, of course, because of the tension of the Presidency. I have failed to welcome you all, the public and anyone who is watching digitally and especially the Minister for Legal Protection. We look forward to a nice cooperation. I shall then give the floor to Mr Ellian. He speaks on behalf of the People's Party for Freedom and Democracy. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-3.u18	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm going to have to repeat myself. This is quite a special moment. As a former group chairman in Almere, I now see my old mayor here as a minister. Same people, but in another room. So a warm word of welcome. Then today's treatment. I have decided to add, if possible, a small personal note. It can't always be, but it happens to be today. As a student at VU, I had to study the legal provisions we are discussing today. I didn't always find it easy at the time, but as a teacher I then taught parts of consumer law and showed that I do manage it. I've come into contact with it as a lawyer, too. So I think it is very special that today I can make a contribution to the provisions on buying and buying. I never dreamed that would ever happen. It has also turned out to me that if you study it from a book, it's easier than if you have to form your own opinion as a representative of the people. I've tried to do that to the best of my conscience. Mr. Chairman. Three points on behalf of the VVD. First of all, the live animals and the proposed legal situation. This now applies to the reversal of the burden of proof if the derogation is made public within six months of delivery. This follows from Article 18 (2) of Book 7. This bill also extends that period to one year for live animals. In matters not being living animals, that is understandable. However, as far as live animals are concerned, that is a bit difficult for my group. The reversal of the burden of proof has major consequences there, for example, Mrs Van der Plas also recalled this in the purchase and sale of horses. Despite the fact that, since the introduction of the six-month burden of proof for live animals, there has been an increase in the number of procurement and sale cases, this period is currently workable. However, an extension of six months is problematic for understandable reasons. Indeed, even longer the seller may be confronted with statements and assumptions about, for example, a purchased horse which are difficult to rebut. After all, it is a living animal and the way in which someone deals with an animal is, of course, crucial. Antidating................................................................................................................................................................. The further you end up in a period of one year, the more difficult it becomes for the seller to prove that a defect was not present at the time of delivery. That is the consequence of the reversal of the burden of proof. The minister's predecessor replied in 2021 that a longer period would benefit animal welfare. Mr Sneller just recalled that. We find this statement somewhat difficult to follow, because the seller has an interest in ensuring that the purchase contract is properly executed. This includes delivering an animal in healthy and good condition. That is also at the heart of what a seller should do and act upon. Now they are often faced with hard-to-dispute claims from buyers. So why should the incentive to care for an animal be greater if the period in which they can be confronted with difficult progress becomes even longer? It seems to us to be the opposite. Quite apart from the fact that I would like to stress this: the owner or keeper of the animal is, of course, entirely responsible for the welfare of the animal. So when someone buys an animal, that responsibility rests there. Does not the extension of the six-month period to one year give a crazy incentive? Mr. Chairman. Finally, on this point. Let me stress that the amendment I tabled concerns all living animals, but still a word about the horse sector, or the hippie sector. That is a sector with a value of more than EUR 1 billion. Now you do not have to express everything in life in money, but in itself that is a sector that we can be proud of. And why should we put a sector behind neighbouring countries if there is not really a need for it? Dutch traders face a stricter regime than other countries, simply because they can face multiple problems. I have therefore tabled an amendment to maintain the current deadline for reversing the six-month burden of proof for live animals. Mr. Chairman. My second point is the usage fee. The usage fee that a seller would no longer be allowed to ask the consumer, according to the present proposal, has led to the necessary e-mails, at least on my side. I can imagine that colleagues have also received them. Consciously, I use the words "should not ask anymore." The reality is that, in view of the 2008 Quelle judgment and the subsequent Messner judgment, it is clear what the position of the European Court of Justice is and was: no use fee may be applied to a consumer if a delivered case is found to be non-compliant and should be replaced. There's really not a word of Spanish in there. For those who like me or those who want to check me, I refer to recitals 33 to 37 of that judgment. Directive 2019-711, which is the basis of the legislation we are discussing today, codifies this judgment, no more and no less. Of course, there can be a situation in which one is enriched to the detriment of the other, without justification, so that compensation can be reasonable. My first question to the Minister is therefore: can I see that the implementation proposal leaves open this possibility, whatever the time limit, to use the doctrine of unjustified enrichment? Mr. Chairman. Secondly, I would like to mention a point which is important and which needs to be clarified. It is unclear whether a reasonable remuneration can be considered in the event of dissolution, the situation in which, for example, performance has become permanently impossible or where, for example, repair or replacement can no longer be required from the seller. In the opinion of the VVD Group, this is the case, and the directive offers that scope. Indeed, the legal consequence of dissolution is the emergence of cancellation commitments. The purchase price must be refunded and the delivered goods must be returned to the seller's power. This could include the use of the case and the issue of price reduction. This is particularly relevant in the situation where replacement of the delivered goods is no longer possible, because the specific type or model is no longer available. The consumer then gets something different from what was originally agreed; although new, but different from what was agreed. In our view, compensation may be considered in this situation, because compliance with the original agreement has become impossible. There is, after all, either a continued, adapted agreement, which has to be paid in addition, or a dissolution and a whole new agreement. Can the Minister respond to this in his reply? Mr. Chairman. I refer to point three, which contains my fourth and final point: the update obligations and the burden burden. This concerns small and medium-sized enterprises. An SME will often depend on the manufacturer or manufacturer for an update obligation. This could particularly be the case with cars. Sellers often do not have access to manufacturer updates at all, while new cars last a long time. Updates must be provided for the life of a car. Of course, the seller can release the consumer via the double reasonableness test. But this brings with it a lot of administrative burdens. They must remain manageable as far as we are concerned. It also remains to be seen how long the seller, for example, has been required to provide those updates from a car. Ten years, 15 years, 20 years? And does it have to keep track of them all the time or update them? These are justified questions which I would like to see answered by the Minister. Mr. Chairman. Finally, the bill does not say much about information, while there are serious changes: not only for consumers, but also for retailers in large and small businesses. Of course, you can expect an entrepreneur to have his own responsibility, but in the case of far-reaching legislative changes such as this, it is not surprising that attention is also paid to information. This can also be a public task. In the note following the report and also in the explanatory memorandum, the Minister does mention that information will take place, but above all to consumers. There is nothing about the information about the group that is dealing with the new obligations, namely the entrepreneurs. So I would like to hear how the Minister intends to shape this information and how he can remove any ambiguity. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-3.u19	That leads to an interruption by Mrs Palland.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-3.u20	I listened with interest to Mr Ellian's contribution, the considerations, the legal framework he knows from practice and study and the amendment he has tabled. I can imagine a lot of that. Of course, those sounds have reached us. We know that in practice that period of six months is now working well and that it is workable. This may have struck a certain balance between consumer interests, horse farming and the sellers in it. But you have also taken note of the reply in the note to the report. In that the cabinet actually indicates: it cannot; it is twelve months... or maybe even two years.. or zero. However, you do see room for tabling that amendment of yours and therefore opting for those six months.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-3.u21	Mr. Ellian.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-3.u22	With apologies, because Mr Ellian is browsing the directive. A clear answer to the question, without wishing to be rude: we are co-legislator and control. The cabinet can take a stand, and of course I do not have to agree with that. In this case, neither am I. The directive does offer that scope, because the directive says 'I am going to say it out of my mind', but I am going to look at the fact that live animals may be excluded from the application of this directive. The cabinet says that if you do that, the whole directive will no longer apply. I don't think that's what it says. Similarly, I have not read the articles of Professor Loos, respected Professor of Consumer Law, among others. In my view, the directive allows a Member State not to apply a part of the directive to live animals. I think that space is just there. That is also the basis for my amendment. I'm gonna look up the clause.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-3.u23	Otherwise, you can always do it afterwards. But it is good if that can be brought here for the Acts. A follow-up question from Mrs Palland. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-3.u24	In response to the answer. I give you that provision, Mr. Ellian. I'll bet you do. But in fact, your position is as follows. The Directive provides for the possibility of excluding this category. This is without prejudice to the fact that we still have the possibility of linking a provision to that category, regardless of this directive. In doing so, you can also shape the six-month period, which is already working in practice. It is a very interesting idea, which I will certainly take with me in the assessment of the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-3.u25	I assume that Mr Ellian agrees with this idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-3.u26	That's a thought I endorse. With your permission, Mr President, I would like to say a few words about Mrs Palland's reaction. You said very nicely: balance. That is exactly why we have tabled that amendment. The current reversal within six months offers a nice balance. And in our view, the directive allows us to make our own choice on one part.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-3.u27	Clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-3.u28	I'm still looking up the article. It'll be in a bit of an interruption. Maybe with my colleague Helder.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-3.u29	Very good. You will come back to that outside the meeting. Thank you for your input, Mr. Ellian. Mrs Helder has the floor. She speaks on behalf of the Party for Freedom. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-3.u30	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I don't want to make you nervous, but first I want to ask you a question. I just heard the Minister for Legal Protection say that this is his first time in this beautiful plenary. Do he now have the rules for a maiden speech? Then we shouldn't interrupt him.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-3.u31	No, I'm sorry. With regard to our guests we have a lot of mild arrangements, but for them it is not true that a maiden speech, a maiden answer, should not be interrupted. On the contrary! I would encourage you to make the most of that right. With all due respect to our guest, by the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-3.u32	Probably getting nervous right now. Anyway, Mr. Chairman, I'm here to make the contribution on behalf of the Party for Freedom. I always start with an introduction to what we are talking about, including for people who are watching. It concerns two directives. One has already been specifically mentioned by the two previous speakers, namely the Directive on certain aspects of contracts for the sale of goods. This includes animals. This concerns the current Consumer Purchasing Directive. The second is the Digital Content Supply Directive. The latter Directive applies to all contracts for the provision of digital content or a digital service at a certain price. It also applies to contracts where the consumer allows the seller to process his personal data in return for the content or service provided. This is the first time that this legislation has laid down: you can pay products with your personal data. Let me give you an example. The consumer downloads a free software application, free doesn't exist and gives permission to the operator to process his personal data. This data is often shared with other parties. But first of all, the consumer does not know which parties they are and also does not know at all what their personal data are worth or what this can do. Think of an app that captures health data, which is shared with an insurance company, which could then determine that you need to determine more premium because of your health. Another point. If you buy a product with a credit card and you don't like it or don't like it, the deal will be reversed and you'll get your money back. But how does it work when you've paid with data? As I have said, the data are in many cases sent to other parties. As far as my group is concerned, there must be additional protection so that a purchase can be completely undone, just as when you pay in euros. This could be done by processing the data only after a certain period of time. But what does the government say? She says that this is a matter of attention, but it is preferable to find a solution at European level. As if that were not yet passive enough, there is also this: "If the initiative for regulation has been taken at European level'. So if the European Union does nothing about this, then neither do we as a government. I would like to hear the response of the Minister for Legal Protection on this point. Mr. Chairman. In view of the many e-mails that my colleagues have undoubtedly received, this implementation law represents a deterioration in the legal position of many entrepreneurs. I am referring now to the directive on consumer purchases. This concerns in particular the extended guarantee periods. We have already heard it in the input and in the interruption of previous speakers. I would like to join what my colleague Ellian said. I read that exception for live have in that too. I've also done a personal note as a lawyer a lot of hippie business. The reversal of the burden of proof has often given me, my client of course, victory. The six months are really the right balance for both parties, because if the burden of proof is reversed, then the other party gets the long-term choice. My group believes that both entrepreneurs and consumers should be protected. Mr President, I shall conclude. It will not surprise anyone who knows my group's position on legislation from Brussels: for the time being, our position is that we will vote against this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-3.u33	Mrs Helder, thank you for your input. Mrs Palland has the floor. She speaks on behalf of the Christian Democratic Apple. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-3.u34	Thank you, Mr President. Since its inception, the CDA has been committed to a fair economy in which the stakeholder interest is at the heart of rather than the shareholder interest. The environment and stakeholders above the shareholders; it is undertaken, but not over the back of another. In a fair economy, consumers must be well protected and entrepreneurs must be able to count on a strong and fair business environment and a level playing field so that they can undertake and compete in a fair and healthy way. The government has the role of a stable and reliable market master who stands up for the vulnerable, makes agreements with all players and upholds the rules of the game, strict but fair, and always explainable. When I look at the legislative proposal before me, I see it as a step in the right direction in general. It provides better protection of consumers' rights and interests and a more level playing field for entrepreneurs. Moreover, the bill modernises our consumer law at a time when we are massively using apps, streaming services and social media. I have built up my input along two lines: the position of consumers and the position of entrepreneurs. First of all, the consumers. In order to prepare for this debate, I took up the CDA Consumer Agenda that we issued in 2019 and 2020. We address a number of problems encountered by consumers in online purchases, such as unsafe or defective products or malicious dropshipping companies that resell products at often significantly higher prices without complying with the applicable rights and obligations in terms of delivery time and product quality, for example. It is good to read that both directives and this legislative proposal address both problems. From the answers to our written questions, I would point out that a dropshipping trader will soon be obliged to provide updates to the consumer and can be contacted on them. We think that's important. The Minister also writes that there is an awareness campaign in which dropshipping traders and consumers are informed about the risks and responsibilities of dropshipping. If this campaign has already produced results, I ask the Minister. The Personal Data Authority, the AP, writes in its opinion to the bill that paying with personal data for digital content and services entails major risks, such as the improper pressure on people who have less to spend in order to allow breaches of their fundamental rights. That's worrying. The Minister indicated that a review of possible solutions would be carried out. It would be ready in the autumn of 2021. If that reconnaissance's already in place, I'll ask the Minister. Because it wasn't part of the pieces. In our Civil Code, we already know the grey list and the black list of unfair terms for consumers, for example, but we could imagine it being extended to digital services and forms, whether in a European context or not. That's the so-called blue list. Mr. Chairman. Then the position of entrepreneurs. The CDA considers it important that there is a reasonable balance between the interests of consumers and the interests of businesses, between the protection of consumers and the burden on entrepreneurs. In part, we see this balance in the legislative proposal, as in the government's choice to extend the period of reversal of the burden of proof to one year rather than two years so as not to increase the burden on entrepreneurs too much. That seems fair to us. At the same time, we see that this choice seems to be very negative for a particular sector, for example for horse breeding. The Selling Goods Directive states that the sale of horses and other live animals to consumers is equivalent to the sale of goods to consumers, but one might wonder if that is right. These are living creatures, as several colleagues have already mentioned, which may become ill or injured outside the sight and guilt of the selling party, for example if they are released at competitions. And the extension of the period of reversal of the burden of proof will also apply to this sector, where the question arises as to how far it can be demonstrated to the selling party after one year that a defect was not present at the time of the sale of the animal. Member States have the option of excluding the operation of the Directive from the sale of live animals. We understand that France is doing this, that Germany is doing this and that Belgium is considering it. Can the Minister confirm that? The Netherlands does not want to make use of this, as this would lead to less legal protection for consumers and a reduced incentive for professional breeders to take precautions to prevent diseases and defects in animals. A question to the Minister. Lawyers point out that Germany has opted for a period of six months, as Mr Ellian also proposes, while the Minister states in his replies to the Court that the directive does not allow a period of less than one year to be chosen. Can the Minister explain this? And what does this mean for a level playing field? Another issue that raises questions is asking consumers for a reasonable use fee by selling parties for years of normal use of a product until the defect occurs and the product has to be replaced or the purchase dissolved. The current legislative proposal would no longer allow us to ask for a user fee, which our industry is clearly asking for. The government states: we have the expected full lifespan in the Civil Code as a starting point and we do not set a deadline. Does this mean, in particular, that for goods with a longer life, the liability of a seller in the Netherlands will be significantly higher than that of colleagues in the rest of the EU? Can he therefore clarify the government's choice in this matter again? Have we understood correctly that, in a situation of potentially unjustified enrichment by a consumer, for example, when a product fails after a number of years of use and can only be replaced by a new, more expensive version, it is up to the court to assess whether asking for compensation is reasonable and fair? Does the Minister therefore consider such judicialisation to be desirable? In conclusion, Mr President. In my input, I considered the position of consumers and entrepreneurs, where the government is in this case the ACM as market leader in between. As has already been said, the CDA has a positive attitude towards this bill, but the answers and responses of the Minister to the questions we have asked are also important for the final assessment and also for the amendments that have been tabled. I'm looking forward to that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-3.u35	Thank you for your input, Mrs Palland. Finally, Mr Sneller has the floor. He speaks on behalf of Democrats 66. That evokes a shy smile on his part, but there is no reason to do so. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-3.u36	Mr President, you are sitting here as a neutral chairman, otherwise I would have said something about the Reformed Party. Mr. Chairman. Welcome to the Minister, who here in a kind of general title inherited the entire file of his predecessor, including this fine bill. The internal market brings a great deal to the Netherlands. Today there was coverage of a CPB study: no less than 3.1% of our GDP is due to the internal market. At the same time, we are also seeing the tension between what is needed, a kind of maximum harmonisation for that level playing field, the level playing field for entrepreneurs throughout the Netherlands, and certain elements that are specific to our legal order and as we have regulated things, for example in this case our very good consumer protection. And another lesson: that you should be here early as the Netherlands, on these kinds of negotiating paths in the European Union. So don't look away, I say with a wink towards Mrs Helder, but just be there, and also make sure that there is room and that there is clarity. I was also somewhat surprised that I only found this minister in box K, because Economic Affairs is a co-signatory. And I also think it is interesting that we are sitting here with the Committee on Justice to some extent, while consumer protection also has an important Economic Affairs aspect. That is, I think, something for us to look at as a room, at how we do it in the future. Because everything in the Civil Code comes along in the Justice Committee, when you would say: many of these things might fit better with another committee, while we are taking it up with Justice now, as it were, without a hitch. Finally, in the category of considerations: it is an interesting interplay. In the interrupting debates it came up: what is the higher right, what is the mandatory right and what space do you have in the Netherlands? Then content, starting with the update obligation. I refer to the sellers, not only the small sellers but also the larger ones, but I am referring in particular to the small ones. What is their position vis-à-vis the manufacturers who ultimately have to deliver those updates? What can we expect from them, especially now that there seems to be a missing piece that would also create an obligation at EU level for those manufacturers to deliver those updates? It also emerged in one of the introductions of the associations of undertakings. Suppose that manufacturer is not in the European Union at all, but in Japan, for example. How exactly should this be arranged, especially in the absence of the opportunity to recover these costs? It's kind of a breach of the rule of law, I'll say. How are we supposed to fix that? What does the Minister see as a final step in ensuring that it does so, so that it does not become an unreasonable burden on the sellers? As far as this update obligation is concerned, there is a subtle distinction between the "update" and the "upgrade," if I understand correctly. I would ask the Minister to say a little more about that before we leave it to the courts to decide. Suppose I have a laptop or an iPad and there's a new virus on the market or a new virus is being developed or a new virus is emerging, and then Apple launches, for example, a new version of the operating system to close the safety leak. Is that an upgrade? Or is that an update? I think it's good to have a little more feeling about that. Then there's the usage fee, Mr. Chairman. It's been mentioned a few times. So in the Netherlands we have the nice, long warranty period. It's wonderful for consumer protection. It's based on the expected lifespan. That could be 8 years, but it could be 25 years. That all depends on price and brand et cetera. But in the rest of the European Union it is two years, except in Finland, if I understand correctly. Then the question arises as to whether there is no too much of a good thing here in the Netherlands, if the ban on a use fee is added to that. It would then, as it were, accumulate an obligation: that obligation should apply throughout that period. But I will not repeat what Mrs Palland has rightly said. Then the question is: what exactly is the mandatory right to do this, and what is not? Is there the possibility, for example, of allowing the ban on this use fee to apply for those two years, as it is going to apply for almost the whole of the EU? And for that period between two years and "end-of-life" can we then fall back on another regime which, perhaps a little more balanced, to quote that word, restores the regime as it does in other countries, especially because you want a level playing field? Because if the obligation of the seller remains here until the end of the life, it will of course be quite attractive to have a look at amazon.de.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-3.u37	There is an interruption by Mr Ellian. Go ahead, Mr. Ellian.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-3.u38	Mr Sneller, along with Mr Palland, raised one of the most important issues of the legislation before us, namely whether or not to ask for a use fee. I looked at it like this. I have looked at it quite thoroughly, and I have not been allowed to ask for a use fee since 2008 anyway, because the European Court has prohibited it, although that sounds very firm. But the European Court has ruled: this is not allowed in all cases. However, the Netherlands does indeed have a special position vis-à-vis all other European countries, because here the lifespan of the delivered goods is central. You are quite right to outline that dilemma. You're saying this is gonna be all right now. My thesis is that it won't recover, because you weren't allowed to charge any usage fee. But my question to you is: if you should choose, although it is likely that a usage fee is not allowed, are you prepared to question, for example, the life of the product, and go back to, for example, a period of one, two, three or year? What choice would you make?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-3.u39	I have not read recitals 33 to 37 I do not believe those were "s', but my interpretation is the following. From the documents on that judgment, I conclude that it was stated in the German context and must also be read in the German context, and that it is therefore based on that two-year period. The question is to what extent can this be generalised to a country that has a completely different regime for these guarantee periods? That's the question I'm going to put to the Minister. Isn't there any way to ensure that this ban doesn't last after two years?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-3.u40	There is a follow-up question from Mr Ellian.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-3.u41	Clear. Let us then wait for the Minister's reply, I say through the President. I am also very curious about this, because it is an important point that you are making here. Can I understand your answer in such a way that you do not want to interfere with the provision, as it is now, with the proposed law, it will continue to be so that the economic life of the product, the delivered business, is at the heart of the matter? Can I understand it so that you say that it is a good starting point in itself, no matter how crazy we may be about that in Europe?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-3.u42	I think that is an achievement that we should not call into question too quickly. So I fully agree with Mr Ellian. Perhaps a final comment on this subject. We've all had a lot of reactions from the vendors. In any case, I myself have not received any response from the Consumers' Association or from a representative from the other side of the spectrum. If anyone else did get it, I'd love to hear it. I understand the concerns of entrepreneurs very well, but I think that careful legislation is important for the citizen's perspective, including from the consumer side, so that we do not ignore consumer interests too easily unilaterally, for example through amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-3.u43	Mr Sneller continued his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-3.u44	Thank you. Let's talk about the inverse burden of proof. I am curious about the Minister's appreciation, because the written answer is very clear. At the same time, I also get signals from Denmark and Germany. I added Belgium and France. While the implementation deadline has already expired, the discussion seems to be ongoing in some countries. So I'd like to hear what's going on. I am a little bit more on the animal welfare line in advance, I shall confess to this. So what are the exceptions? What are the legal consequences of this? I think it's good that we get a tight picture of that. What possible second opinion can we get, for example from the Council of State? I'm also thinking about what happened to the Animal Law. That was thought afterwards: that was too fast. Shouldn't we be asking the Council of State for advice here, for example? Or is there another way not to get into some kind of legal dispute based on what we read or who we talked to? The Minister may be able to agree to that. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I have two very brief questions. What exactly is the situation with the implementation period? It entered into force on 1 January 2022, but it does not yet apply. Can the Minister say anything more, possibly in the light of further information, about what has happened? What kind of evaluation does he intend to make of this law? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-3.u45	Thank you, Mr. Faster, for your input. The Minister has indicated that he needs twenty minutes of preparation. Or does he need a little more time?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-3.u46	Mr President, I would appreciate it if you could give me 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-3.u47	Then we'll make it half an hour. This means that we will continue at 11:32 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-3.u48	I would like to thank you all for your timely presence and give the floor to the Minister for Legal Protection. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-3.u49	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for all your welcome. The chairman does not give me the opportunity to make a maiden speech because it is not a common sense, but thanks for the gesture and the gesture. We are indeed discussing an important bill today. Two European directives are transposed into Dutch law. The Directives improve consumer protection. I call upon the idea that was taken into consideration by the previous cabinet. Your Chamber has adopted a motion on this matter and has ruled that we should work precisely to strengthen consumer protection. European legislation on consumer protection has been in place since 1999, but time has not stopped. There are many new products with digital elements. I am thinking of the smartphone, the smart TV and so on, and so on; you can supplement that list. There are also many new digital services, such as Netflix, e-books and Spotify, digital services that can no longer be ignored from daily life. These new directives are in line with these developments. They clarify the rights of the consumer if a product or service does not meet its expectations, which is called "non-compliant" in professional jargon................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ There was just a definition discussion about updates and upgrades. I'd like to get back to that. That was a question from Mr Sneller. Ladies and gentlemen, the directives are based on so-called maximum harmonisation. That term was used by one of you earlier. This means that European Member States must not deviate from this within their national law. Mr. Chairman. I will answer the questions as follows, in this order. I would first like to focus on conformity, then on the reversal of the burden of proof, then on the subject of personal data; I see that you are writing along, so I will change my pace. After that, I will answer questions that have been asked about the user fee and updates. Then there are other questions, about procedure and the Council of State. At the end, I would like to comment on the amendments mentioned. In this order, I would like to comment on the questions that have been put to me. Let me start with conformity. Why would the extension of the reversal of the burden of proof from six months to one year be an incentive to take good care of an animal? Isn't that the other way around? That was a question from Mr Ellian of the VVD. In extending the deadline for reversing the burden of proof, I see not only an incentive to take good care of the animal, but also an incentive to ensure that an animal is in good health on delivery, in your words. Thus, the seller reduces the risk of an animal becoming ill or otherwise failing during this period of one year. I see it as follows. The seller is actually stimulated to deliver his product properly. Then there is the question: why do we put the horse sector without a need, and you spoke of EUR 1 billion a year; these are huge sums of money that are lagging behind other countries by extending the reversal of the burden of proof? In the current situation, the deadline is six months and it has gone to twelve months. You know my arguments. I am committed to good animal welfare and consumer protection. I see both elements coming back in a longer period of reversal of the burden of proof. The key question is: is the seller empty-handed? A salesman can always prove that a horse I just let stay with the horses was just healthy on delivery. It is also possible for the seller to prove within this year that a lack of a horse was not the seller's fault. You can do that by getting a medical certificate from a vet at the front. It can then determine why a horse, for example, started walking crippled. Precisely in the case of expensive purchases, wealthy purchases, it is customary to do so in practice. Think of a breeding bull, a horse, and add up. That's a non-conformity question. The CDA asked: is it true that Germany has opted for a six-month reversal of the burden of proof for animals? An explanation was asked. Is that legal? Those are legitimate questions. It is clear to me that Germany has done so. So, yeah, that's right. In the written round, I also indicated that the directive only allows the complete exclusion of animals. That is how I read the text of the directive. Germany does it differently. That's been established. I can't rule out that this can be a proper explanation. However, I refer to the Court of Justice of the European Union. After all, the Court must give a ruling on this matter. Other Member States - you have already mentioned the exceptions - follow those 12 months. We want to stick to those 12 months for the reason I just mentioned. Is it true that Belgium and France have excluded live animals from the Sales Directive? The same question was asked. This is the case in France. That's where live animals are excluded. But in France there is a separate regime for live animals. There are no conformity requirements for the purchase of live animals as provided for in the Directive, and there is therefore no reversal of the burden of proof. Belgium also intends not to apply the regime of the Directive to live animals and to apply a separate animal regime. Suppose you want something like this in the Netherlands, that means you have to start a very large, new system. We wanted to translate these guidelines into Dutch law. Mr. Sneller... Mr. President, there's someone at the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-3.u50	I propose that this issue be completed and that we then allow the interruptions to take place on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-3.u51	Thank you. I had come to the non-conformity. A seller must ensure that a consumer gets a good working product. You took me in the situation where an entrepreneur has to get a story on an entrepreneur who's in Japan. You let me travel. At this point, a seller will always have to make agreements with his supplier. Often a supplier, even through a subsidiary in the European Union, will make arrangements to do so. That's what you'd expect. He'll get a story on the previous link in the production chain. If a party is entirely outside the European Union, it will be considerably more difficult. We have no control from The Hague or Brussels on how, for example, the Japanese laws and regulations should be worded. So here's a point. Mr President, may I continue with the non-conformity?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-3.u52	Sure. I suggest you conclude this topic.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-3.u53	Thank you. Mrs Palland of the CDA asked: is it true that the open system in the Netherlands places more burdens on entrepreneurs in our country than on entrepreneurs in other countries? In the Netherlands, for many years, we have had a non-conformity deadline for consumer purchases not laid down in the law. That works well in practice and we keep it with this bill. In my view, this also provides for a high level of consumer protection. The consumer's interest is that he or she should be able to trust that a product satisfies during the period that can reasonably be expected. That's how we wrote it down. The consumer can expect a product to have a normal lifespan. There was just a discussion about the economic lifespan. But there are also durable goods. For example, think of a washing machine. Then a longer period of compliance may apply. Then you don't assume 20 months. It's possible that a drum breaks down, and then it just breaks down in month 22. So for relatively short periods of life, there are other demands. That is the fantastic open system we know in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-3.u54	That was the theme of conformity. I now give Mr Ellian the opportunity to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-3.u55	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. To get it right, does the Minister now say that the exclusion of live animals is not possible on the basis of the directive? Or does the Minister say that this is possible, but for other reasons, for example because the Cabinet believes that animal welfare can be promoted by a longer period and therefore considers it appropriate to do so for 12 months? What is it for you: it can't be, or it can be, but we don't think it's appropriate?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-3.u56	I wouldn't want to use the word "opportuun." I would merely note that this clarity of a clear rule that you have for all goods of one year provides clarity to the seller and to the consumer. I also mentioned the argument of consumer protection.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-3.u57	A follow-up question from Mr Ellian.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-3.u58	Then the next question to the Minister. I refer to Mr Helder's example. I myself, as a lawyer, have had a single trial in which live animals were the subject. Surely there is nothing wrong with the fact that, for such an exceptional category of association with the animal, it all plays a role that an animal lives, that eats an animal, and so to speak, how an animal is petted? It is precisely for this reason that the directive also states that Member States, if they so wish, may completely exclude the living animal from an application range, which means 'you are free to do what you want'. Then that six months isn't crazy, is it, because of that balance we were just talking about? Are you prepared to see that these six months are now an excellent balance between the importance of consumer protection and the protection of the seller?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-3.u59	Mr. President, through you. If you go from the hamster, the grass parakeet to the horse, because we're talking about all living animals, taking out that provision and going to arrange it, I've just indicated what that means. I have been looking for a piece of consumer protection and a piece of animal welfare. Those are my core arguments for sticking to those 12 months. Next, the selling party is absolutely not empty-handed. On the contrary, it can build in several guarantees at the front, so that it can prove that the product delivered in question, the animal, was healthy at the start.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-3.u60	That leads to an interruption by Mrs Helder. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-3.u61	Following on from what Mr Ellian has just asked the Minister, I have heard the Minister say: Germany makes an exception for six months; it is indeed about live animals, Belgium intends to do so and France has a separate regime for live animals. I am going to pick out the hippie sector, because there is almost more money involved in exports than in paid football when I look at the latest figures. Don't get me started, but I think there's more money going on in that hippie sector. So that doesn't justify us sticking to that six-month balance sheet? Look at the neighbouring countries of Germany, Belgium and France, especially the horse sector in the Netherlands and Germany. You might want to check out the trade magazines. They're full of competition. Then we are going to put the hippical sector of the Netherlands at a huge disadvantage. Would that not justify at least looking at a separate regime?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-3.u62	I hear your arguments. I'm making other arguments. I am looking for clarity of the rule, both for the seller and for the consumer. I've also been looking into it to see what it means. You mention one sector; I quote the amounts mentioned by Mr Ellian of 1 billion. Those are huge conversions. You want to give the seller a position, but also the consumer, especially when we talk about something like breeding horses or breeding bulls that I mentioned; these are huge amounts. Then I'll stick with those 12 months because I think you can build in several guarantees for the selling party on the front.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-3.u63	Follow-up question, Mrs. Helder.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-3.u64	Mr President, I think it is very nice of the Minister to highlight animal welfare in particular. Mr Graus always insists on this on behalf of our party, but here it seems as if it bites each other, as if economic turnover would be detrimental to animal welfare if we stick to those six months. I'm really sorry about that. I notice that the Minister is very much in keeping with animal welfare. There is a lot of money involved and that also ensures animal welfare. I still don't see why that deadline should be doubled.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-3.u65	Could the Minister please explain this one more time?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-3.u66	I'm afraid I'll fall into repetition. I note that Mrs Helder has a position. You have heard me mention consumer protection and consistency of the rule. It is about applying them well and making them clear to all Dutch people. If abroad doesn't do it differently... I referred to the Court of Justice of Europe. That will have to be clearly stated.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-3.u67	A question from Mrs Palland. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-3.u68	Slightly in the future, however. I fully understand the arguments put forward by the Minister: I want this clarity for the Dutch consumer. But these are European directives, which also have a certain objective in terms of harmonisation and a level playing field at European level. Then we see that our neighbouring countries make an exception here. Then we can stick to "yes, but for our consumers it must be clear for all categories of products and animals that you can buy," while you can also say: it is quite logical for a consumer to understand and understand that the purchase of a living animal is of a category other than that of products. He is taking one turn, while we see that the aim of the directive is also harmonisation at European level and a level playing field. But that is not what the Minister chooses, because it is a fuss and we have to make a deal with it. Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-3.u69	No, I'm always willing to work hard, Mrs. Palland, so I'm not sharing the "things" with you. The arguments remain calm, coherence and clarity. I have just indicated that I think there are guarantees for live animals in the front, so that the seller, who also cares about me, like the consumer, is not placed in the negative.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-3.u70	That raises another question for Mrs Van der Plas. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-3.u71	I would like to continue with that. The Minister mentions all the advantages and says that it is better for animal welfare, but I do not really understand exactly what is opposed to keeping it at six months. What would go wrong? In the years 2000 it was even eight weeks. I don't know if there are any figures on how animal welfare went at the time, but what exactly is going to go wrong? I'm just tasting that a political choice is being made here to keep it to six months. I do not yet see the real arguments and justification for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-3.u72	You try to make rules as clear and clear as possible for both the consumer and the seller, especially on such an important topic where there is such a huge turnover. No different than that: that clarity, and not invent rules on rules and by-laws. That leads to a lack of clarity. That could lead to conflict. That is why I seek this coherence in applying this EU directive as we translate it into Dutch law, with all due respect for any sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-3.u73	A follow-up question from Mrs Van der Plas.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-3.u74	Those are arguments why it's good, but I'm looking for what's against it. We come up with constructions here all the time, and we're constantly laying down extra rules. Take the AOW as an example. It's being disconnected from the minimum wage. Then we're gonna put something completely different together to compensate the elderly anyway. That's just common practice here. I still do not see why things could not be as they were in France or Belgium, for example. So can we. In other words, this is simply a political choice. Does the Minister agree?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-3.u75	Mrs. Van der Plas, it's a political-administrative choice you're making here. I'll bring it to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-3.u76	Thank you. Then there is an interruption by Mr Sneller.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-3.u77	About Japan, but about the manufacturers. My question concerns the following. A relatively small seller is expected to make agreements on those updates with the manufacturer. Whether it has an office in the EU or not, the relationship of power between the manufacturer and the seller is often quite distorted. This, of course, is all the more important in the Netherlands, because we have a different guarantee period, one that has been defined in a different way. In other EU countries, this period is two years, and with us it is the expected lifespan. We talked about how long it could be. How does the Minister look at the position of the seller and his obligations towards the consumer if the manufacturer does not actually have any adverse effects and has no obligation whatsoever?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-3.u78	What about the small businessman, because that is what you are talking about in the core, who has a small shop in relation to that powerful producer? That's where the tension is if I understand you correctly and listen carefully. How can he or she go from the chain to get his or her right from the producer? I'm referring to the chain. That's the idea. Does that mean he's empty-handed? Fortunately, the less large or less medium-sized entrepreneurs, or small entrepreneurs, are always represented in industry associations and in sectors and often make agreements on the products they purchase at the front. The point has rightly been made that there are awareness campaigns towards the consumer and that information is given to them, and that we should not skip business and business. I shall come back to that later in my reply. Here too, I will remind them that it is important that something changes and that they have to think about this and take care of it in the front.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-3.u79	A follow-up question from Mr Sneller.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-3.u80	Information suggests that the choice of principle can be justified and that we should then explain it properly so that people can prepare for it and act accordingly. But from some of the signals we have received, I understand that other EU countries can also derogate from this rule of law. There's no such place. Then, for example, a manufacturer established in another EU Member State does not have to make such an agreement. He's not obliged to do that. So we must have that confidence, insofar as we can still deviate from the directive in this respect at all. And then I try to get a little more insight into the question of whether we should not aim for a closure that also imposes an obligation on the manufacturer. Or do we say, no, it's okay, the balance is so well struck.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-3.u81	I am actually about to sit in the chair of my colleague from EZK, but I would like her to do so with pleasure, so let me put it first. I myself believe that not only awareness is important in the direction of small entrepreneurs. I think we should also go a step further and see how we can support them in this. These are points which I am very much taking into account in the work.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-3.u82	The Minister continued the answer with the following theme.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-3.u83	The next theme I have here is the horse sector. I think I have just gone into that. I have to apologize, because now I've messed up my notes. We'll figure that out soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-3.u84	I had noted: reversal of the burden of proof. But perhaps that has already been dealt with side by side.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-3.u85	I believe that this has been the issue and I can now continue with the additional protection for consumers who pay with personal data.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-3.u86	The personal data. Okay. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-3.u87	A question from Mrs Helder: why is there no additional protection for consumers who pay with data, for example by processing data only after certain deadlines? And if the EU does nothing about this, then what? Those were Mrs Helder's questions. It is probably cabinet policy not to include additional national policies in an implementation legislative proposal. You're well-known for that. The Directives can also be implemented without introducing additional national rules. That is why we have not introduced any additional national rules into the law. When we talk about this issue, we talk not only about a Dutch problem, but about a cross-border problem. We use Facebook. We know that Facebook's head office is in Ireland. Then you may want to settle it in the Netherlands, but this is just an EU issue and then you have to look beyond the borders. That is why I say that this is a cross-border problem, which I prefer to solve at European level. With my example I hope to have made it clear that it does not work to solve it only for the Netherlands. However, it is not the case that a consumer is now unprotected. I refer to the GDPR, which provides adequate protection. This means, for example, that a consumer can withdraw his consent at any time. The trader must then in principle stop the use of the consumer's personal data. And the personal data must also be properly protected by the seller, and that is precisely what the Dutch Data Protection Authority supervises. Within EZK, the exploration will take place into the possibility of taking additional measures. This could also involve national measures. You may expect me to inform your Chamber of this before the summer. A question from the CDA about the personal data. Is there additional protection for consumers when paying for digital products with personal data? That actually refers to the opinion of the Personal Data Authority, and when can we expect this? I believe that the Personal Data Authority has raised a more than justified point of attention. This is also the reason why the government has launched an investigation into the practical and legal possibilities for taking additional measures to better protect consumers when paying with personal data. I just said I put pressure on it. I hope to come up with this at the end of this quarter, but for the sake of certainty, I say before the summer. Let me be clear: if I have the results of the research, this can also mean that I am asking for attention at European level to be given to this issue in order to regulate it properly and to make it negotiable. Mr President, so much for the personal data. I'm going to the user fee now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-3.u88	You have plenty of opportunity for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-3.u89	A very specific question from Mrs van der Plas. If a product breaks down after nine years, are you entitled to a completely new product while it has been used without any problems? Aren't you bullying the entrepreneur and bugging him? This depends on the circumstances and on whether a product needs to be completely renewed after nine years. I have already mentioned the example of the washing machine a few times. Suppose the drum fails after nine years. The consumer may have used the washing machine wrongly and this may have caused the defect. Then let us be clear: the consumer is not entitled to a new product.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-3.u90	That leads to a question from Mrs Van der Plas. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-3.u91	That's right. A question. Of course, I am not as good at legal protection as the Minister, but is that guaranteed by this law, or should that be discussed again? Is there a hard line on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-3.u92	Mrs van der Plas: reasonableness and fairness. This is how we look at consumer law. So that is well arranged in the Netherlands. Disputes and conflicts are assessed and discussed as such. That's the practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-3.u93	Enough? The Minister continues his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-3.u94	A question from Mr Ellian. Can a reasonable remuneration be considered in the event of termination if performance is permanently impossible? You asked me to go into that. The existing right allows a use fee upon dissolution, Mr. Ellian. I do not see any reason at the moment to regulate this legally. It follows from the caselaw that the use fee may be paid in exceptional cases in the event of dissolution. Now, if you want to lay this down legally, I'm gonna talk about complementary national policies and then I'm gonna put a national head on it. My starting point is not to do that. Mr. Faster. How are the interests of the consumer in prohibiting the charging of the user fee weighted against the interests of the seller? I said earlier that the directives aim to achieve a high level of consumer protection. The consumer's interest is that he or she should be able to rely on the fact that a product is satisfactory during the period for which he or she can reasonably expect it. There's that nine years of that washing machine again. The period within which the consumer may expect the product to work shall not be subject to any user fee. This follows from the directive. That's what the bill says now. That's not new. This also applies on the basis of current law from case law. That makes sense somewhere. The seller's duty is to ensure a working product. That's obvious. Why would you have to pay for a defective product? That is also in the spirit of the Vos/Jacobi motion. That motion called for every effort to keep that high level of high consumer protection at at least the same level as it is today. Let us not forget the interests of the seller. The seller must pay for the costs if the product does not meet and he/she must repair or replace it. The directive and also our national law then provide that a seller can in turn go to the supplier or the manufacturer to try to recover the damage there. There was talk earlier about the right of regre. I can't say the seller's empty-handed. How does the ban on a user fee and the longer non-conformity period for Dutch sellers affect their competitive position vis-à-vis sellers in other EU countries? Countries have a choice in this. I cannot say that there is now a level playing field in the EU. Let me make that very clear. A ban on applying for a user fee applies throughout the European Union for at least two years. In the Netherlands we have for years an unlimited period for non-conformity. This means that in the event of a defect the consumer may also report to the seller after two years. The consumer must prove that the defect was already present on delivery. That is not possible with every product. In practice, these are only products for which a longer lifespan may normally be expected. During that period, the trader may not claim compensation from the consumer if, for example, the product has to be replaced due to a defect. That's a system we've known a long time. It's a balanced system. As a result, we provide a high level of consumer protection, while the burden for the entrepreneur is to be looked at. I've been talking about the expensive products. There, the Cabinet does not consider a fixed short period of non-compliance appropriate. This is a piece of customization. I'll talk about the open system. This gives an incentive, including for entrepreneurs, to offer high-quality products that last for a long time in our country. In doing so, I am touching on one of the sustainability objectives of the Chamber and this cabinet. Many have rightly asked for unjustified enrichment on the part of the consumer if no user fee can be charged. I can imagine situations where a consumer is unjustly enriched. This may be the case if a non-compliant business has to be replaced by a newer better model by the seller. For example, the old model is not available. In that case, we are talking about unjust enrichment of the consumer. After all, he/she gets a much better product than he/she bought. Then it may be reasonable for the seller to ask the consumer for an additional payment. Is that additional payment a usage fee? No, it's an extra payment for that unjustified enrichment. I just mentioned the washing machine. You can imagine how this rule applies to it. A question from the CDA was even sharper. Is there any possibility of unjustified enrichment by a consumer when a product is replaced by a new more expensive version after a period of time and we do not make this unnecessary by leaving it to the courts to assess it on a case-by-case basis? I have just admitted that this situation can play out. I also indicated how we deal with it. It is not really a change from the current law. Of course, as a consumer and a seller you can always refer the dispute to an independent third party, to a dispute committee etc. Even the way to the judge will be open. What is the directive if a user fee is applied for when the consumer dissolves the contract? That was a question from the VVD, I thought. Directive articles do not exclude user fees in the event of dissolution. According to current Dutch law, only in exceptional cases is a user fee charged in the event of dissolution, but it is up to the court to assess that. With this implementation, that does not change. Does the directive allow for the possibility or not to allow sellers to charge a user fee after two years? That was a question from D66. The answer to that is no. The directive does not allow this in so far as it concerns the repair or replacement of goods. The directive says that no compensation should be charged for the normal use of the replaced goods. Maximum harmonisation comes around the corner. This means that the Netherlands should not deviate from the directives when transposing them into legislation. A user fee cannot therefore be charged. So much for the user fee.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-3.u95	This leads to an interruption by Mr Ellian.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-3.u96	This is extremely important for legal practice, but also for the impact of consumer protection. I cannot stress enough how important this is. With your permission, Mr President, I would like to briefly inform you whether I have understood correctly, so that it is well in the Acts. If it is dissolved, it is generally in situations where performance on the part of the seller has become impossible. You can then have the case that a newer model has to be delivered. On my first question, I have heard the Minister clearly say that in these cases additional payments can be considered if the original agreement is continued in another way or dissolved. After all, that's what you agreed: type A, you don't get, you get type B. Extra payment can then be the order. We can do that now, and we can still do that. That was question one. Question two. The state of law is evident from the parliamentary examination of the establishment of Articles 18 and 21 of Book 7, among others, and also from case law. You say that, in exceptional cases, compensation may indeed be considered in the event of dissolution. That's not gonna change now. That was my second question. That's the second category. The third is then: in general you have cases of unjustified enrichment. That's a separate tutorial at the BW. I can clearly hear you say that it can always be called upon, because that depends on the circumstances of the case. A consumer may indeed be greatly enriched at the expense of the seller's impoverishment. I'm sure that'll have to crystallize. This is important for the legal practice which, after these Acts, will look into it in the event of discussion and can refer it to the court.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-3.u97	Then the answer is to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-3.u98	I can answer all three points with "yes."
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-3.u99	That's short but powerful. Thank you, clear and clear. Then continue your response with the updates.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-3.u100	Then I come to the concerns of small and medium-sized enterprises with intermediaries. That's about figuring out the updates yourself. The Implementation Act gives consumers the right to update their devices. Updating devices makes consumers less vulnerable to, for example, a digital burglary. Updating devices is therefore very important for the digital safety of consumers. It is true that the seller will be responsible for this. I understand that this may seem difficult at first sight, but it's not new. Consumers have one point of contact in our law and that is the seller. It is known to the consumer. Suppose a small part breaks down in a TV, then the seller must return to the supplier. Updates will work in the same way. From the point of view of consumer protection, it is more than good that the consumer has a single point of contact. How long do you have to keep delivering those updates? How long an entrepreneur can expect updates in the system of the guidelines, depends on the nature and purpose of the product. A reasonable period of time should be estimated for each product. I've already gone over the updates when the manufacturer's in Japan. So I can skip that question, if Mr Sneller agrees. He also talked about updates and upgrades. He asked me about the definition of the concepts: are they synonymous or do you have to see them separately and what do you actually mean by an update? An update shall ensure that a device that has been purchased continues to function properly. These rules see for conformity. This means that the apparatus must continue to function properly and that the consumer can make safe use of the apparatus. I just mentioned that on the basis of the safety information. A trader, on the other hand, is not obliged to go beyond this. It is not required to give a new version of an operating system. Think of that as an upgrade. In that I make a difference between updating and upgrading. Updating is really necessary for the product to continue to meet expectations if you have purchased it. I consider an upgrade a new functionality. I have dealt with the weak negotiating position for small parties with third parties in the previous response.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-3.u101	I see a hesitation with Mr Sneller. Take the opportunity to take advantage and interrupt, I'd say.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-3.u102	Keep functioning well and safely. We regularly receive the message from the Automation Service here in the Dutch Parliament: a security leak or a vulnerability detected in the operating system, update all your iPhone. That's a new version of the operating system. The Minister describes this as an upgrade, while it is also necessary to continue to use it safely. That is why I think it is a little more complicated than how the Minister describes it now. So I wonder how that should develop in a moment. Is it up to the judge, or can we give some more clarity about it here?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-3.u103	It's a nice challenge.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-3.u104	I was just talking about the incredible importance of explaining this well to industry organisations, industry and consumers, that is to say to both parties. What's updating? What's upgrading? Make it concrete, so we don't get unnecessary disputes and unnecessary court cases. That is actually the question behind the question you are asking me: make sure that it lands well in this country.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-3.u105	And in this room, I'd like to add. Information will be given shortly on the basis of the rules we lay down here. As Mr Ellian also says, what we are still discussing here affects the rules we are about to lay down. In addition, the way in which the Minister describes the difference between upgrade and update in this Chamber limits the scope for information, because that is how this implementing law should be read in a moment. That's why I'm looking for it myself: what is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-3.u106	Can the Minister clarify this a little more?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-3.u107	As soon as I do, we're gonna have a babylonian confusion of speech. I don't want to. But I want that peace and clarity about what upgrading is and what updating is. I'm gonna put extra energy in it to make that clear. I remain in line with what I just said. That is how I am going to clarify it, also on the basis of examples. I will not comment on your example from your phone in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-3.u108	Given the separation of powers, that might be wise. Just the other example of the seller's active obligation to inform the consumer about the fact that this update is available. The Minister cites the example that it is customary that when the consumer goes to the seller, the seller then goes to the manufacturer. But that's a kind of passive duty that the seller now has to go back to the manufacturer in such a case. The update obligation is also, in my opinion, a matter for the seller to actively inform the consumer about the fact that this update is available. Of course, this requires a very closer attitude and also a different type of obligation on the seller. Did I get that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-3.u109	Yeah, you got that right. We want to strengthen the consumer. The selling party may, if we have that unambiguous rule, not only sell products in the Netherlands, but it gets the whole European market. Then it is so beautiful when he also realizes at the front what requirements and conditions he has to meet when he supplies and sells a product to a consumer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-3.u110	Is it sufficiently clear?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-3.u111	Enough clarity, but I think it is good to realize what an additional administrative burden and an additional obligation the seller requires. Some operating systems or updates become available fairly frequently, when another vulnerability has been discovered within the internet or things. So it can mean a lot of extra e-mail traffic or information flows in a different way from seller to reasonably many consumers. I did not realize at first reading that this obligation goes so far.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-3.u112	That is a statement by Mr Sneller. The theorem's right. I do not know whether this will entail additional administrative burdens. It does mean an awareness on the front with the entrepreneur.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-3.u113	That was the cup of updates?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-3.u114	Yes, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-3.u115	Now we're gonna get the trial. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-3.u116	Thank you. Mr Sneller has asked me about the legal sustainability, the exception of animals and the return to the Council of State. In the written round we have indeed indicated that the directive only allows the complete exclusion of animals. That is what the text of the directive says; that is how we explained it. The rules of the Directive will not then apply. I understand now that Germany chooses something else. We just talked about that. They explain the provision differently. We're sticking to the position I just took. Do you have to go back to the Council of State for advice now? I advise you not to. Then I walk, and we as the Netherlands, completely out of the implementation period. In addition, you should also ask yourself what additional advice the Council of State can give. This is a field of tension about how Member States explain it. There is only one body that can finally give a clear ruling on this: the Court of Justice of the European Union. Mr. Ellian also asked me... I now come to an x-number of questions about how to give good information to small and medium-sized enterprises and how the Minister sees it. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Climate Affairs, together with other consumer organisations, will inform consumers and entrepreneurs about new rights and obligations arising from the legislative proposal. This will take place through various media channels. Think of social media, but also the Entrepreneur's Square of the Chamber of Commerce, information offices and the ConsuWijzer. All those elements we're putting in. In addition, work will be carried out with interest groups to inform the grassroots. The information includes the update obligation we were talking about, but also the responsibilities it entails for entrepreneurs. Mr. Chairman. I have to admit that I have struggled with the term 'dropshipping', but I am now going along with it in time. The awareness campaign has informed dropshippers and consumers about risks and responsibilities associated with dropshipping. To reach the younger target group, we have deployed an influencer. Two videos have been posted on YouTube to inform consumers as well as novice dropshippers about the potential risks of dropshipping. Lately, I have received fewer signals about the problems involved, but can I say it carefully? The campaign seems to contribute to that awareness. In this context, it is good that the subject is also regularly discussed by other consumer organisations. I refer to the ACM, which checks the campaign first, then ordering is started. It focuses on dropshipping. Mr. Chairman. We are too late with the implementation; Mr Sneller pointed that out and wondered about the intergroup procedure and where we are now. It is correct: the new regime was due to enter on 1 January, but we did not reach the deadline. The argument behind this is the complexity of these directives and the fact that we wanted to involve the actors in the front. I must also conclude that COOVID-19 has had a very negative effect. It is my objective to introduce the implementation law for the summer recess. Mr President, may I comment on the amendments?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-3.u117	Sure. I think it is right to say in advance that, if I am right, the amendment to item No. 8 has been withdrawn by Mrs Van der Plas of BBB. The amendment in part No. 9 has already been replaced by the amendment to item No. 11, so that we have three amendments: the amendments to the Nos. 10, 11 and 12. That is the state of play. We'd appreciate it if you'd give that your appreciation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-3.u118	Thank you. Then I will start with Mr Ellian's amendment to bring the twelve months back to six months and continue the old situation. Given the arguments I have used before, I will not linger in the groove of the record, an invention of the last century, I can only give you to look at that differently and consider my arguments. I also express the wish and hope that you realise that I must discourage this from my position in relation to the living animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-3.u119	The amendment in part No. 10 has been dissuaded. Then there is the amendment to item No. 11.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-3.u120	Mr. Chairman, could you give me a hand? I've got a paper sea right here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-3.u121	That is the amended amendment tabled by Mr van der Plas to replace the amendment tabled in respect of item No. 9, on the three-month presumption of evidence for the consumer purchase of live animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-3.u122	It will be no surprise, I say to Mrs van der Plas, if I say that I reject this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-3.u123	The amendment in part No. 11: Dissuade. Finally, we are getting the amendment to item No. 12, Mr Ellian's amendment on the deletion of a clearly erroneous reference.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-3.u124	I consider that to be a technical amendment. It clarifies things. I leave the judgment in this matter to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-3.u125	The amendment in part No. 12: Judgment Room. That brings you to the end of your response, to your response. Is there a need for a second term? I see a nod in agreement. I shall be the first to give Mrs van der Plas an opportunity to make a second contribution if she so wishes. You're saying you're not ready. If you don't find it objectionable, we'll let the trial continue. Then I give the floor to Mr Ellian. It's ready to go. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-3.u126	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister from this point on, of course, for his reply. It will not be surprising that I was a little disappointed in that response, even when it comes to living animals. I really want to support Mr Helder on this point. The Minister sketches a contradiction that I don't think there is. Animal welfare is not promoted at all by extending the reversal of the burden of proof from six months to twelve months. Animal welfare can be monitored in all kinds of other ways. But it also kind of misses the point, as if sellers, breeders and other traders would now need an incentive to deal better with animals. That's not the point. After all, the situation is that because of the fact that antedating... It is also evident from animal science and veterinary medicine that after a period longer than three months you can hardly determine where a problem comes from. So that incentive's already there. In fact, vendors are often in a problematic situation after three months. Anyway, so be it. We've had a lot of exchanges. Of course, I'm just maintaining my amendment. Mr. Chairman. I have one comment to make on this, including for the Acts. Article 3 (5) of the Directive states that Member States may exclude agreements from the scope of this Directive where they relate to the sale of live animals. That's on my side. It's right here: with respect to living animals, you can set up your own legal regime as you like. That can be done just fine with the provisions we now have in the BW. Mr. Chairman. I have a motion. I am glad that the Minister says that he is going to work on information on both sides, not only to the consumer, but also to the entrepreneur. However, this update obligation creates serious new obligations for entrepreneurs, who also have actual consequences, for example. In this way, if you want the consumer to give up, you have to prepare and talk about some papers. The next motion is to have the opportunity to discuss it again later. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas under the Selling Goods and Supply Directives digital content vendors and suppliers are increasingly required to provide updates for digital content;]] [[whereas sellers may be excluded from this update obligation on the basis of a double explicitity test, but the directives do not prescribe how this test should be completed in practice;]] [[Whereas the update obligation and the exception based on a double explicitity test will in practice lead to administrative burdens for SMEs;]] [[Whereas there is an obligation on the government to provide information to consumers and traders on the new rights and obligations arising from this proposal;]] [[calls on the Government to carefully monitor the impact of the update obligation on the administrative burden burden on entrepreneurs and to inform the Court of Justice of this one year after entry into force,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ellian.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35734-13]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-3.u127	Thank you for your coulance.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-3.u128	Thank you for your contribution in second term. Mrs van der Plas has the floor. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-3.u129	Yes, thank you. I had a piece of paper on my desk just like the minister, but I found it. First thing. I also agree with Mr Ellian and Mrs Helder, because that incentive is already there. I would like to add that to the Minister and to his colleagues in the House of Representatives. Animal welfare controls are already stricter than anywhere else. We have an animal police in the Netherlands, thanks to the efforts of the PVV. We have here as one of the first countries in the world even a party for the animals. Animal welfare is already so important. I do not want to say that I see it as bullying, because that sounds a bit nasty, but I do see that it is becoming increasingly difficult for entrepreneurs in the Netherlands, while the cabinet itself says that we should have less bureaucratic rules. Having said that, I would like to table another motion, which reads as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Implementation Act on Sales of Goods and Supply of Digital Content provides for a ban on the charging of user fees by economic operators to consumers;]] [[Whereas this may have serious financial consequences for entrepreneurs by requiring them to be liable for a larger share for a longer period of time;]] [[calls on the Cabinet to launch a campaign to raise awareness among entrepreneurs and consumers about the right of guarantee;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Plas.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35734-14]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-3.u130	Thank you for your contribution in second term. Mrs Helder has the floor. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-3.u131	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thanks to the Minister for answering the questions, but unfortunately I am not convinced either. I'll start with the payment of personal data. I agree with the Minister: that is a cross-border problem. But the pain of my group is precisely in the government's passive attitude. We are not going to do anything until the European Union does something. But why aren't we a little more active and aren't we watching? The Minister referred to the Dutch Data Protection Authority, but it lacks money and manpower, and that is unfortunately now a well-known fact. The AP can't keep an eye on all of that. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the other point: the exception for the hippie sector. In particular, it concerns the living have, but my group once again places the emphasis on the hippical sector. I checked it out. The latest figures I could find were from March 2021. Then the turnover was 1.75 billion a year. In 2018, exports accounted for 317 million. The pain lies mainly in the fact that there is no contradiction here between animal welfare on the one hand and the economy and the economy on the other, let us not forget that sport in the hippical sector on the other. The main concern is the fact that the countries around us do make that exception. Belgium and in particular France and Germany are by definition the competing countries for the hippie sector in the Netherlands. Those countries do make that exception. If you don't ask, you won't get anything, Mr. Chairman, so I'd like to give this to the Minister for consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-3.u132	That leads to a question from Mr Sneller. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-3.u133	Yes, because Mrs Helder took a turn at the very end of her speech in the first term, which is probably familiar to her, but for me what was surprising. It was: it comes from the EU, so we are voting against the implementing law. In short, I think that's her conclusion. I was wondering exactly how she sees that. Does she simply accept all the fines that follow? Or is this something more thought-out? Could she tell us a little bit more about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-3.u134	We often hear groups say: a positive attitude towards EU regulation. The opposite is the case with my group. The common market, we understand that. But it's always searching: it's not a sharp line, you know, but where does the common market end and where does the EU's interference begin? The EU's intervention is almost about straight bananas and crooked cucumbers, to say something very strange. Let there be no misunderstanding about that. The EU is meddling in almost everything, and that is where my group always feels the pain. That is why I also said at the end: it will not surprise anyone; my group's basic attitude towards European interference is, as a rule, that we are not happy with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-3.u135	Follow-up question by Mr Sneller.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-3.u136	No, you can't. Moreover, the EU is not interfering with monkey sandwiches either, because I believe that these straight bananas are a typical example of this. But it is not the case that it is a landmark for the PVV Group to vote against implementing legislation; it is sometimes, sometimes not. And that actually makes it more the basic attitude than it is a consistent line.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-3.u137	I think that's a bit of a trick question. Everything is always judged on the content.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-3.u138	Look, that's a diplomatic answer. I call Mrs Palland. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-3.u139	Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank the Minister for answering all the questions. He's been through everything meticulously. And I had already indicated that we could agree to the use of both directives and their transposition into legislation. So we are in favour of this bill, where it aims to better protect consumers and contribute to a more level playing field. But it is precisely that level playing field that makes sense for us, and that is the point, I think, from this debate, that is still the point of the exception to live animals. If we look at what these directives aim to do, a more level playing field, a level playing field and a level playing field with the countries around us, then we see that, precisely in this respect, the Member States around us are taking a different turn. I think it's good to keep what we have in the Netherlands, those six months. That is why I intend to support Mr Ellian's amendment, and I shall also refer it to my group. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-3.u140	Clear, thank you. Finally, Mr Sneller has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-3.u141	Mr. Chairman. Just a little while longer. Thanks for the answer. I think it is good that we have received some nuance in the written reply and have had the opportunity to colour it a little further. I asked another question about the evaluation. And I can count a little. So whether we turn left or turn right, with a few of these amendments, and also the entry into force and the update obligations, it would be good, apart from the evaluation report that the European Commission will draw up in 2024, to look at how we are doing this in the Netherlands, especially since this is another incorporation into our own Civil Code. And the implementation bill doesn't contain that evaluation clause. So apart from monitoring, which I think is very good, and Mr Ellian's motion: what else is going to happen about that evaluation, and also to check what actually happened to the behavioural effects, as they are sometimes assumed to be speculative on both sides? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-3.u142	Thank you for your input, too. There are two motions. Does the Minister need a short suspension? Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-3.u143	Mr President, I would be grateful if you could give me a short five-minute suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-3.u144	Five minutes. Then I'll suspend the meeting until 12.38 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-3.u145	We need the second term from the government. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-3.u146	Thank you, Mr President. I'll be the first to deal with the motion in part No. 14 by Mrs Van der Plas. I listened to her very carefully. I mentioned earlier that various organisations, such as the Ministry of EZK and the ACM, regularly provide information on various consumer rights. For this proposal, too, these organisations aim to provide information to consumers. The Minister of EZK will also provide information to entrepreneurs on the new rights and obligations involved in this legislative proposal. I also expect the Consumers' Association to actively inform consumers about this. Consumers are asking for this too. So I'll leave the motion to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-3.u147	It is even possible to take a motion if it has the assent of the Chamber and if the Minister so wishes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-3.u148	Mr. Chairman, I'm aware of that, but I'm putting it back in the hands of the Chamber, with all due respect to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-3.u149	Judge Room, then. That was the motion in part No. 14 by Mrs Van der Plas. Then the motion to part No. 13 by Mr Ellian.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-3.u150	Yes, Mr. Ellian's motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-3.u151	But first there is an interruption or a question from Mrs Van der Plas.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-3.u152	That's right. I was part of the Van der Staaij Committee. The opinion said: preferably fewer motions. Look, if the Minister can promise me that he will, I can withdraw the motion. Then the motion doesn't have to go through the Chamber. That could also be an option. I'm not saying I do, but I'm just gonna give it a minute. So I am aware of it, in the sense of working more effectively in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-3.u153	You are aware of your position. That's very good. Minister, can your commitment be explained in the spirit of this motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-3.u154	It's possible. I like a pragmatic style and effectiveness.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-3.u155	Mrs van der Plas will be able to withdraw the motion if she so wishes, but we will hear about that. Then the motion to part No. 13 by Mr Ellian.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-3.u156	Mr. Chairman. I respect Mr Ellian's motion and the question of Mr Sneller's evaluation, but I would like to combine both. Mr. Ellian, you're right to ask me to monitor on certain points. For this, a period of one year is short, given the impact it has. My request to you is to give me two years to map it, monitor it. Mr Sneller then asked me for an evaluation. I am also very much in favour of this, as you can hear me say. I don't know if it's usance, but maybe I'll renew it. I therefore seek contact with you as a Chamber to establish the criteria on which we are going to evaluate at the front, so that we can also map this ex post. We need to know what we want to know. When are we gonna be okay with it or not? When do we have to adjust? If Mr Ellian goes with me from one year to two years, I can meet that. I try to combine that with that evaluation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-3.u157	Mr. Ellian, not a year but two years in the operative part. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-3.u158	Although I am sometimes known for some impatience, I can well understand the Minister's request. As far as I'm concerned, it's fine to read for two years instead of a year. I'll take a look at you, too, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-3.u159	You will amend the text of the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-3.u160	The Ellen motion (No ) has been amended to read as follows: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas under the Selling Goods and Supply Directives digital content vendors and suppliers are increasingly required to provide updates for digital content;]] [[whereas sellers may be excluded from this update obligation on the basis of a double explicitity test, but the directives do not prescribe how this test should be completed in practice;]] [[Whereas the update obligation and the exception based on a double explicitity test will in practice lead to administrative burdens for SMEs;]] [[Whereas there is an obligation on the government to provide information to consumers and traders on the new rights and obligations arising from this proposal;]] [[calls on the Government to carefully monitor the impact of the update obligation on the administrative burden burden on entrepreneurs and to inform the Court two years after entry into force,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] She's getting No. , was No. 13 ().
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-3.u161	I'll take the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-3.u162	The Chamber doesn't seem to oppose that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-3.u163	I think the Minister is ready with the appreciation of the motions. Do you think he might still have a goodbye word in the direction of the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-3.u164	Mr. Chairman, despite the fact that you're challenging me to make a maiden speech, I'm sticking to the rules of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-3.u165	That concludes the debate on this item.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-3.u166	We're going to suspend until 1:15 p.m. I wish you a tasty lunch and, before that, a joyful continuation of your work. But before that suspension I have to formally state that the proposal, the motions and the amendments will be voted on on Tuesday. Thank you.
