ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u1	At present, the issue is the examination of legislative proposals 36120-IX, Amendment of the fiscal statement of the Ministry of Finance and the fiscal statement of National Debt for the year 2022, and 36120-XV, Amendment of the fiscal statements of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Employment for the year 2022. I would like to welcome the Minister for Finance, the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment, the Minister for Poverty Policy, Participation and Pensions and the Secretary of State for Finance to the First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u2	I give the floor to Mr Van Gurp van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u3	Thank you, Mr President. Thanks also to the members of the cabinet, who want to have three women and one man with us at this late hour this important debate on purchasing power development. My group very much appreciates that. Mr. Chairman. What is at issue in the First Chamber is legislation, in this case a budget law. The key question to ask is: does this budget law provide an answer and direction to what is currently going on in the country? That is the key question I will raise in my speech. What's going on in the country? I say nothing new: the security of existence of large groups of people is under severe pressure. We are not talking about purchasing power plates with +0.5 or -0.5 and whole point clouds where you can get anything. We are not just talking about people who have been on or below the poverty line for a long time. Of course, we are also concerned with those people, but there are much larger groups of people, and that is actually quite unique in society as we know them over the past few decades, who have a great deal of trouble getting out each month, or are lacking in regular monthly money to pay for the energy bill and the groceries. So the question is whether the supplementary budget for SZW, which we have with us today, will answer this question. Let us be clear: it is not really about the SZW budget alone. It is about the whole of the national expenditure framework. That is why we welcome the fact that the directors of finance are behind the government table as well. Is the government doing enough? No. Does the government do anything? Oh, yeah. We're not gonna faint; the government is definitely doing something. The €800 for people with a social minimum is a gesture that is complicated in implementation, but is at least a gesture that actually means something to people who are at the level of assistance. With a lot of political push and pull, €500 was added last week. That brings me to the question of why that has been so incredibly difficult. We all see that this is not a question of the left or the right; it is a politically broad question of the fact that these people have really fallen into trouble. The least there could have been is that this €800 had been extended more heartily and earlier by the cabinet to an amount of about twice as high or to the €1,300 it is now. Anyway, anyway, it finally came about and we appreciate that. But we all know it's too little. It's not enough for those people. I also experience them daily in my work: people who can't pay the rent, who are at the bottom, who walk by the food bank, who nibble on their food, et cetera. For this group, €1,300 is too little, but it is far too little for the group that earns just a little more, the low middle incomes that are just not at the level of the social minimum or at 120% of them. They just don't come out and they don't get a penny. We should be ashamed of ourselves! I am not saying that we could have seen or seen this crisis coming. It's four verbs in a row, but I think it's true. I am not saying that we could have predicted this inflation either. Economists are capable of much, I must say, of the economists in this Chamber, but an economist who gives an adequate prediction of the future, I still have to come across. However, I say that we should have developed the social foundation and the social resilience of our society in good times in such a way that a major crisis such as this would have been able to cope with without the consequences of it bringing millions of people into great financial worries. We should have done this by taking structural measures, such as raising the minimum wage and related benefits. Yes, it's finally being worked on, but after a long time of whining, slow and at a much too slow pace. By setting up financial buffers and instruments that can be deployed in times of crisis, so that we do not have to be panicked by policy. It's called fixing the roof when the sun shines. The power inequality in the Netherlands is enormous and there is really easy power to transfer or to roam, without us having to be afraid that we would end up in too egalitarian a system. I say that especially for those people who have great concerns about it. Mr. Chairman. None of this has happened and now we are taking emergency measures, because special times call for special solutions. If we then look at the supplementary budget for Social Affairs and Employment, we find that really insufficient. Yeah, we're looking at the broader picture. This extra €500 has been included in the supplementary budget, which we in the committee have said in broad terms today: hammer it out as quickly as possible. So it has become €1,300. Something has happened to the fuel tax, which, by the way, often does not produce anything for the people who really are at the minimum, because they are no longer able to drive cars. The reduction in the energy tax also offers some relief. I'm not here to bitch. I am not here to say that it is all bad, but I say sincerely from the bottom of my heart and also from our point of view that it is really too little, especially for the people with an income just above the minimum. This budget is therefore inadequate and has been discussed in detail in the House of Representatives last week. All kinds of concrete proposals have also been made. In the end, nothing has come out that can count on a majority that will help people with low middle income in the coming months. We've been thinking about doing that again. In the end, we chose not to do so from our group. There is no lack of good intentions for the future, but they do not yield anything. Then we are talking about specific measures, specifically to give this group of people extra money. I do not mean all the fine things that can be included in the budget for 2023 or 2024, because with the budget for 2023 you will not get through the autumn. When the heating season starts again, about from October, I see the people whose energy contracts have now gone to flexible €100, pay €150 more. They're already panicking and panicking at my desk, like, we're not gonna figure it out, what are we gonna do? Mr President, this is a very important speech. It is also our role in this Chamber to look with commitment, but also with distance, at legislation that is being presented to us. Unfortunately, the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance has no choice but to conclude that the legislation that has been submitted to us is inadequate on this point. Legislation does not provide a good answer to the fundamental questions raised by society and to the legitimate demand of the population for public protection. I'd have liked to have come to another conclusion, but I can't. I am, of course, curious about the contribution of colleagues and about the answers and reactions, reflections, of the members of the government in the first term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u4	Thank you, Mr. Van Gurp. Mr Crone has the floor on behalf of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u5	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the rulers for having this debate with us. Let us try to conclude this year with some kind of united action. We all see how many families are going to get into trouble in the autumn, not even in terms of assets or assets, but in terms of liquidity. The Central Planning Bureau has shown in the stress test that it is about 1.2 million households, but that is 3 million people. At least I haven't been there before, but I don't think anyone here is going to get so many people into liquidity problems. We all know that a company or a person never goes bankrupt on assets, but on liquidity. That's dramatic. I do not think there is another word for it, and I would urge colleagues in the Chamber to do the best that can be done, first and foremost, but also in the Cabinet. I'm not going to repeat the debate in the Lower House. I just want to focus on those things that can happen now. I appreciate the cabinet saying we're going to do a lot in the Millions Note. But all this only happens after January 1st. Revaluation will be the problem in the autumn. For so many millions of people, we have to take the most out of the closet that we can. So I'm mainly focused on things that can happen now. If we do not do it now, by August at the latest, I will tell the cabinet that these 3 million people will be in trouble. The cabinet says it's just a middle scenario, so it could be a bit of a setback. Mr. Chairman. The cabinet has rightly done a number of things for 6.5 billion. But much of that, for example through excise duties, does not reach the target groups where we want it to end up. We're not being negative about that. The House of Representatives has 38 measures I have browsed all of them; it was a celebration of recognition, in view of my past, of which the cabinet has said: none of this is feasible. I am not saying that they were referred to the trash can, but at least to August and later. That's too bad. I would like to ask the Ministers for Social Affairs and Finance once again whether there is going to be an arrangement, a point of contact, an emergency safety net until at least January. People need to be able to bridge their liquidity. They have to be able to literally say, "How am I supposed to do that, how am I supposed to pay my bills?" When it comes to the energy company's account, I keep hearing that it doesn't have to be paid until January. Well, my annual bill isn't in January; that really depends on your contract. Is there going to be a window and can people be helped there, can they get credit there or anything like an emergency catch net? Again, I very much appreciate what has already happened. I would like to repeat what Mr Van Gurp has already said: that €800 plus €500 is really good money in all senses of the word. We hope that we can reach the people who are entitled to it. This will be relatively easy for beneficiaries, but many people will be ashamed to apply if they already know that they can apply. I heard Nibud say it this morning. I trust that you will do everything in your power to achieve this, but it is all the more important to talk about four concrete proposals which, if we decide today or by August at the latest, can still play a role in October. I'm totally focused on that. First of all, if you want to raise the minimum wage by 1 January, you should do it already. That is clearly stated in that annex. I hope you want to raise the minimum wage considerably. The whole blow you had planned in the coalition agreement could take effect on 1 January. I read in the documents that you must decide that by August at the latest. That's gonna give you breath and perspective from January. This is the only point I would like to make in my proposal. Then there's my second proposal. We are charmed of that €500 as a supplement on top of that care supplement. I understand the implementation problems, especially if it has to be recalculated, as with the care allowance after income change. We propose: do the à fund perdu. Well, at least you don't have any post-calculations. Of course, we also recognise that there will always be people who say: I would have wanted to, but I have no right to. Let us clearly communicate about this in advance. The Secretary of State for Finance has also pointed out that we cannot make a distinction beyond commas, let alone create an enormous amount of court cases. That's not good for the Tax Office, but it's not good for the people themselves. À fund per EUR 500 per 1 October. Mr. Chairman. I have a whole new proposal. To my great surprise, that was not in the 38 proposals. I'll bring it in: child support. This is a very effective instrument in terms of implementation technique. Digitally, you know if someone has children and at what age. It's not fraud-prone. That never turned out to be true. The child benefit can be increased immediately. That is very targeted, because we are helping those families that are in trouble right now. It concerns not only people with 120% of the social minimum, but also middle groups above that. Some of the family allowances go to high incomes, but we also want to help the incomes to moderate, 10% above them. I think you'll have most of the target group we want. It's effective. I remember very well that we did this when we introduced the ecotax during Purple I. Then we introduced an extra allowance on child benefit. If you live with children, you will inevitably have more energy consumption in the same house. You still want to put a kid in the shower every once in a while, feed him and give him a heated room. It is very effective to introduce a targeted energy premium through a premium on child benefit. Together with the liquidity problems, we propose to double the child benefit once on 1 October. This also helps to cope with the cost increase of food, clothing and energy. Targeted. I find it amazing that in the Lower House and in the Cabinet no one has suggested this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u6	A brilliant idea from Mr Crone, but I heard the word 'one time'. Is there anything else you can think of to make it a little more structural?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u7	I follow the rules of the game we've known for a long time in this country. The cabinet also says it opts for one decision-making moment on purchasing power in August. It's conceivable, but everyone has different thoughts about it. I'm not against it, but I'm not going to say anything about the package on January 1st. I am now talking about a package that can be delivered before 1 January. What you have to decide now is to be able to do it January 1, such as the increase in the minimum wage.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u8	I count my blessings. Mr Crone is not against it. We'll see if there's more in the barrel.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u9	And I do not rule out your support for me to start at least a one-off increase on 1 October.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u10	This is an interesting argument, Mr. Crone. The only question is how focused is such an increase that you are proposing.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u11	No proposal is 100% targeted, but it scores high, because we know exactly who has children and who doesn't. That has never been a problem of implementation. We do not have to calculate afterwards whether people have a higher income, which means that they have to return the child benefit. That's not true. Like the AOW, it's a flat-rate benefit regardless of income. The progression is in how you collect the money but not in the benefit. It is therefore targeted, also because families with children have higher burdens and are more affected by the rise in food prices. At least I'll feed my kids and put them in the shower. So when you have children, you have higher loads for energy and food. If the kids leave the house, you don't have them anymore, but then you don't get the child benefit. So it's very focused. You only give it to the people who need it. That was one of the beautiful things in the nineties, Chamberwide.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u12	You say "focused," but people with high incomes also receive child benefit. So how focused is this measure?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u13	I am very pleased with that question, because that is a fierce discussion in almost every party. I am in favour of it because the broad welfare state means that the AOW, the child benefit and, moreover, the assistance, are lump sums. Then you're not gonna say that the higher incomes don't get it, while everyone understands that Prince Willem-Alexander doesn't have to get child support. But high incomes do contribute to the welfare state and get something in return. In America, it isn't. There only the poor get it and then the richer say: they have to get to work first. And it goes down every year. The strength of our welfare state stems from Christian democracy, social democracy but also from your party. A broader basis for support lies precisely in family allowances and in the AOW. I would like to lean on that, but in my party there are also people who say: should we now?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u14	Finally, Mrs Geerdink.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u15	No, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u16	We agree on everything else within our party, as you know.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u17	He's king now, by the way. You mentioned "prince" Willem-Alexander; he is now king.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u18	Oh, yeah. The kids were little back then, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u19	Since 2013, and I think the children are already partly mature. It's a good thing the chairman keeps you up to date. I understand Mr Crone's speech and Mr Van Gurp's speech very well, because we share the analysis that millions of people are now really stuck with their disposable income. As I understand it, Mr Crone wants a quick fix in liquidity. I also think that should be done. So we are in complete agreement on the analysis of what the problem is. But is child benefit the best way to do that? Because I agree with Mrs Geerdink that rich people also have children. Would a system with much higher tax discounts and a lower rate not give much more "bang for the buck" to use just one economist term?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u20	Yes, but you cannot ask for feasibility and effectiveness at the same time. The feasibility of all these care allowances is now zero point zero and leads to dramas. Unfortunately, the cabinet has shown this convincingly in that annex. I wish I could pick out one that could! They can't be here until January 1st at the earliest. I have already said that: fine. But we reserve the right to see what they come up with in the Millions Note. But I only come here with proposals that can help families in October and November if we decide to do so now and in August with the cabinet. That's the goal, isn't it? Let the better not be the enemy of good, but if you have a better proposal: do it! And for once, let's just stop shouting in the Chamber that the other is wrong. I've had that for a few days now, as you know. Let's just say what we agree on. If this is the only instrument that can and which is at least targeted, non-fraud-sensitive and effective and provides liquidity, then I think a lot of parents will say: why does a person living next door to me who has 119% minimum wage get €1,300 and I get nothing with 122% or modal?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u21	I'm going back to Mr. Otten.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u22	Mr Crone and I fully agree on the analysis, as opposed to the previous day with CETA. At that time we had some other ideas, but in this area I fully agree with the problem analysis. We don't have to go to some kind of perfect solution either. That is precisely the problem in the Netherlands: everything must be perfect until the last exception of a divorced parent with two children with a rental house in Delfzijl and then it is impossible. Then you do get that the better is the enemy of the good. That is the whole problem in the Netherlands. However, I think that there are several ways to increase liquidity in Rome in the short term; I will come back to that. I therefore do not disagree at all with Mr Crone on this point. But it is, of course, sad, I would ask Mr Crone that no action can be taken at the Ministry of Finance and at the Tax Office; Mr Van Rooijen will come back to that. We had the best IRS in the world, but it's gone down pretty bad.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u23	Thank you. I sense a question mark.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u24	I would ask Mr Crone not to do anything about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u25	I have a lot of ideas about that. We also discussed them in December in the very last budget plans; we are going to do so again this year. But we are only talking about the supplementary budget. I do not want to vote for it because it does not contain things that should have been in it. That's what I'm talking about. I am not talking about things that need to be structurally improved, because we will talk about this another time.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u26	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u27	Thank you, Mr President, my fourth proposal. The IO-AOW is mentioned in the annex, but why doesn't it go up? The cabinet says, well, because we wanted to abolish it. Yeah, hello, then you don't get rid of it, or half of it. So I think we can also agree on this. If this is easy, it is the maintenance of an existing regime, if necessary half of it. All you have to do is turn the rate knobs. It does not go into effect until 1 January, but I see in that annex that you must now decide. If you don't do that until the Millions Note, you're too late, you say so yourself. I therefore urge you to keep open the IO-AOW option, a supplement for the poor elderly, by making a positive statement on this now, in line with the Van Rooijen motion, which was adopted this afternoon. Mr. Chairman. Of course, coverage is a serious problem. I heard Prime Minister Rutte say in the debates last week: coverage is not the problem; I wish I could do it! When the Prime Minister says that the cover is not the problem, but I cannot implement the measures... but of course I like cover. Mrs Kaag, by the way, has said something similar. Both, Mrs Kaag and Mr Rutte, have said that the Netherlands is impoverished, because there are higher import prices. But that's one side of the story. The CPB has just published that they themselves saw that wrong, because export prices are also rising. So you're impoverished when import prices rise. After all, more energy costs make you poorer. But if you can pass that on to your exports at the same time, which is the case, you won't be poorer. I therefore ask the cabinet to confirm that there is hardly any collective impoverishment. The CPB is talking about 0.5%. Well, that's nothing. In addition, they explicitly say that, partly because that impoverishment is not there, there is all the space to redistribute. In addition, the liquidity in business is very high. Although she has already said something about it, I would like to ask the Minister for Social Affairs if there is a social agreement yet to come. Because companies will also be able to participate in solving purchasing power problems, albeit for working people. Is there going to be a social agreement? There are people in this room who have worked on this before. I'm sure they'd be happy to be back. Mr. Chairman. Europe is talking everywhere about a tax on excessive profits from energy companies. I'd like to ask the Secretary of State: is it getting any better? Last week, the European Commissioner said that he wants to work with many countries to do it together, if only to avoid capital flight, profit flight. This is therefore a tax on excessive profits. My one-time question for child benefit is not a problem. VAT has risen by 3 billion. That source of coverage has already been mentioned by JA21. Perhaps the Nanninga Group will do the same later. But again, when the Prime Minister says "the cover is not the problem," who am I to say so? It's a one-off amount. Expenditure already planned can, for example, be brought forward. It could be new money. It could also be the sovereign debt. Because let's make one thing clear: fortunately, our sovereign debt is still within all the safe margins. We have such low public debt in the Netherlands because we want to have a buffer for bad times. I think a lot of these 3 million people will say, if it isn't bad times now, when will it be?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u28	I will come back to the phenomenon of "focusedness." I've got the blue book in my hand here. It doesn't look blue, but it's the "blue book" of 2021. It says: 39% of Dutch households are single-member households, and 28% are couple without children. In total, 67% of Dutch households do not have children. To what extent is this a targeted measure?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u29	Would those people have the cost of kids? No, because if you don't have children, you don't have children. This isn't a trap! Targeted means you have a purpose. You don't want kids growing up in poverty and their parents paying the bills. You reach the kids through child support. In addition to the AOW, that is the most targeted element in our entire welfare state. So I just want to reach the families with children, preferably the families that need it. So it doesn't apply to me. My kids are out of the house, too, but that aside. But I would make things complicated again if I said that the 10% richest people are not allowed to participate. But 90% of the people who have children aren't rich. They're on a modal or something up there. 60% are above modal, but of course they are just above modal. That's modal plus 10%. Anyway, if you want to make child benefit dependent, let's discuss it another time. But it's a targeted instrument. I will be against it, by the way, but I shall put it in my group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u30	Finally, on this subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u31	If something is effective, then it is the cost of maintenance of children...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u32	I call Mrs Geerdink.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u33	This is just a levelling measure. So I can only conclude that it is not targeted. A very large group, more than half of the Dutch, does not reach you with an increase in child benefit. So my question is how do you think this is more generic? Don't you have any other measures that can do better?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u34	I repeat that we have a habit of burning down every proposal without having to oppose it. So I'm very curious what the VVD comes up with. Or does the VVD say: no, in January you will get something? So I'm gonna play that ball back. Because if something is effective: child benefit is not an income-levelling measure as such, but is set up to help families in the cost of maintenance of children. This is good for children in poorer families, but also for middle income, because you know how expensive children are. Also for middle incomes it is not fun to support two or three children at this time. Sports schools are becoming more expensive, food is becoming more expensive, energy is becoming more expensive. If something is effective and targeted, it is child benefit. Mr President, I will conclude.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u35	I am getting requests from the Chamber to speak a little less through the Chamber, because there are Members who are difficult to follow the debate. The request to Members is to exercise reasonable silence and not to talk through each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u36	Mr President, the interruptions have bought me a lot of time. I'm not gonna pass that on to you, so I'm gonna quit early, at least on time. If someone is having a hard time, they are families with children, not only the minimums, but also the middle incomes, the low middle incomes. We have made more proposals, not just for child benefit, to lift it. Let us try to enter the recess together and take the cabinet with us in the success that citizens think: they are still there for us. Of course, I am considering a motion, depending on the response of the cabinet and the colleagues.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u37	Thank you, Mr Crone. I call Mr Kox on behalf of the SP. I repeat the request for Members to exercise some silence in the Chamber. I do so at the request of Members who are difficult to follow the debate through the talk. I get notes about that. The question is, then, whether we want to do so outside the Chamber if we want to discuss it. I think that's a reasonable request. Mr. Kox.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u38	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you very much to the members of our government for being here on this last day before the recess, at a time when people of my age can just go to bed reasonably. People my age have to sleep at night and can't meet. It's very nice that all of that can still be done. Mr. Chairman. It hasn't been long since we've been mugged by Corona. Then the then Minister of Finance came to the then First Chamber to say: we have deep pockets and we will do what needs to be done. It was a big crisis. Great, unprecedented measures were taken. All in all, I think we were all a little proud of it. As a country, we were able to face a major crisis with major measures. At the beginning of this year we were confronted with the war in Ukraine. That is something we thought would no longer be possible in the Europe of the 21st century, with its solid multilateral systems. But it happened. Our government said, like many other governments in Europe, we are going to do what needs to be done; we are going to do what needs to be done to stop the aggression and help Ukraine. Yesterday our Prime Minister told us to visit Kiev: we are doing what we have to do. He mentioned things that the Netherlands did, which we certainly hadn't planned to do in January. We did so by giving great support to Ukraine and even by supplying arms to conflict areas, something we have not done so far. It was a big crisis. It's a big crisis. We're taking great measures. All in all, with our differences, we're a little proud that we can handle it. This country can do a lot. Mr. Chairman. Now we are faced with the purchasing power crisis. Speaking the word is a bit of a tonguebreaker. But I know a lot of people, even in my own environment, who don't say the word, but they do. There are a huge number of people, many of them, who are currently in trouble or fear of getting into it. I'm not talking about people who always have something to chew, but people who didn't think they'd be confronted with this. The Nibud says that 38% of our households are difficult to live by. Nibud is not the faintest either; they also assume that you should keep your own pants on if you can. 38%. The CPB says that 670,000 to 1.2 million households can hardly pay the monthly charges. When you hear how that translates into the position of children... This Chamber has paid a lot of attention to the structural reduction of poverty among children. We've stepped in there, taken steps. The Minister for Poverty has also taken this as a stated objective. If you see what's going on right now and what's coming on us because of that huge, unexpected inflation and because of that huge rise in prices... I don't know if it's happening to you, but I've been meeting people all day saying, "You know what I need to pay more?" Then they call a number, and then I think, "That can't be true, can it?" Well, it's true, then. And what does the government do now? Does the government now say "we have deep pockets"? Does the government now say "we do what needs to be done"? No, not that. As Mr Van Gurp said, I am not going to say here 'the government does nothing and looks the other way'. But what's happening is too little. It's too little, and that's why it's not good. The worst thing, I think, is that our Prime Minister says, 'I would love to do what you all ask', by 'all of you', he means the Lower House, the trade unions, the consumer organisations and the housing organizations 'but it is not possible'. I'm slightly allergic to that. When I worked at the Tilburg court store a long time ago, I found the most annoying thing to do on Fridays with someone who ran out of money. Then you called social services, and then the social services said "yes, he or she is actually entitled to money, but the window is closed" or "the greenhouse is closed" or, in the early years, "the computer doesn't work." Then I thought: that can never be an argument in a civilized country. We can never say: you are entitled to it, but we cannot give it, because our systems are not working. I am very disappointed that I heard our Prime Minister say: we would love to do what you want, but computer says no. That can't be the case in a civilized country. Well, then let it work. Then come up with another way. Then why don't you sit down somewhere and pay cash? That's what you used to say to social services who came up with these excuses, and that's what I'm telling our Prime Minister. Only if it's 100% established that we can't do more, that we can't get anything out of those deep pockets, then I'm willing to accept that we can't do anything. What is happening now, namely to tell the story that our systems cannot handle it, that our staff and our implementation organisations are overburdened and that that is a reason not to help people whose government, parliament and people we need to help, that is not going to happen to me. We are not going to have a very big debate on the Spring Note here. That's what happened on the other side. But I ask the representatives of the government to tell me why what I am proposing is not possible. Here's what I'm suggesting. I shall also table motions on this subject in the first term. That is not my custom, Mr President, but we do not have such a long debate ahead of us. I suggest that you raise the legal minimum wage. Do it now. Don't wait, but raise it now. Fix the rents. Fix the rental prices at June 2022 level and do so for a year. Do not do the energy surcharge up to 120% but up to 130%. Let the municipalities that want to do so, and compensate them for that. Fourthly, give the energy premium to residents. There are many lawyers who say: this is unprecedented discrimination; a student is a resident and you cannot discriminate against residents. That happens to students; give them the energy supplement. Then we do not do much, but then we do what I think is possible and for which the argument "computer says no" does not apply the systems. I would like to hear the government's answers on these points. I'll read the motions in a moment. But perhaps Mr. Van der Linden would like to say something.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u39	However, one more question to clarify. Mr Kox just said in his speech that high inflation had come out of the sky and that many people and himself were a little surprised. During the General Financial Reviews in this house, less than a year ago, we discussed this extensively with each other. So my question is really: when did Mr Kox's high inflation come out of the sky unexpectedly? When did that become clear?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u40	I think the moment it came out of the sky unexpectedly for everyone. I am glad that we have Mr Van der Linden with us, who had already foreseen all this, but I do not think that the economists of the world would have anticipated what is happening at the moment. Inflation as it is now getting out of hand was not foreseen, not even in the General Reviews. If you did, you could be a millionaire. But I think that the way in which prices, and especially energy prices, are now getting out of hand, you have also understood that something has happened in Ukraine, where there is a direct link, is a surprise for everyone, at least for a lot of people, perhaps not for Mr Van der Linden. But it's no surprise in the good sense; it's a very bad surprise. I'll read out the motions I'd like to table if you'll allow me, Mr. President. Finally, I would like to ask the Minister of Finance, in response to her statements yesterday in Brussels. The: Mr Kox, Mr Van Apeldoorn, Mr Gerkens and Mr Koffeman proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having regard to the alarming reports of the deterioration in purchasing power of low and middle incomes;]] [[Considering that it is a good policy to continue to address problems that arise;]] [[calls on the government to improve purchasing power this year by structural increases in the statutory minimum wage, linked to benefits and AOW,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-36120-IX-B]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u41	The second motion is as follows. The: Mr Kox, Mr Van Apeldoorn, Mr Janssen, Mr Gerkens and Mr Koffeman proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having regard to the alarming reports of the deterioration in purchasing power of low and middle incomes;]] [[Considering that it is a good policy to continue to address problems that arise;]] [[calls on the Government, in consultation with the housing corporations, to fix rents at price levels June 2022 until 1 July 2023,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-36120-IX-C]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u42	The third motion is as follows. The: Mr Kox, Mr Janssen, Mr Van Apeldoorn, Mr Gerkens and Mr Koffeman proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having regard to the alarming reports of the deterioration in purchasing power of low and middle incomes;]] [[Considering that it is a good policy to continue to address problems that arise;]] [[calls on the government to also allow residents to benefit from the energy surcharge in the course of this year,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-36120-IX-D]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u43	My final question is to the Minister of Finance. I pointed out that our Prime Minister was going to say 'across the street', but it was told the House of Representatives behind the station: 'I would like to do what you want, but we can't do it'. Yesterday I thought I heard a slightly different tone from the Minister of Finance following the Eurogroup's consultation in Brussels: according to the Minister of Finance, we can no longer allow ourselves, in the context of the manageability of public finances, to take further measures in the area of purchasing power. That may be a legitimate argument, but that is a different argument than "we want to, but we can't." In that case, it's "we can, but we don't want to." I would like an answer to that from the Minister of Finance. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u44	Thank you, Mr. Kox. I call Mr Otten on behalf of the Otten Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u45	Mr. Chairman. No less than four rulers are present today in this debate on the serious economic situation in the Netherlands, where the purchasing power of millions of people is under severe pressure. This has already been mentioned by previous speakers. We are pleased that the Minister of Finance has managed to adapt her international itinerary in such a way that she can be here tonight in the First Chamber. 'Cause it's about something. In 2022, the Netherlands quickly found itself in a very worrying economic situation, aggravated by the Russian invasion of Ukraine. The Netherlands has also fallen into an energy crisis with empty gas deposits, state-of-the-art coal power stations that are first shut down against better knowledge, and then, on a set basis, have to be opened up by this cabinet. And all this right in the middle of a risky and very expensive energy transition! The trend of rising inflation was already underway before the Ukraine war. That's what just came up. In December of last year, I pointed out to the former Secretary of State for Finance, Mr Vijlbrief, the considerable risk that inflation expectations might loosen up from their anchors. That's what's happened now. The power bill exploded. The prices of groceries are rising and producers are constantly increasing the prices of their products. The phenomenon is reminiscent of what we experienced during the introduction of the euro coin in 2002. Soon everything cost as much in euros as a year before in guilders, while the exchange rate was then 2.20 guilders. People expect higher prices and therefore producers in turn increase prices. So everything gets more expensive very quickly. I also told Filipino you can find that on the internet, which is inflation like a bottle of ketchup: you're shaking it hard, but nothing comes out and then you're full of it all at once. That's what's happening now. I also made this example known to Mr Vijlbrief at the time. The fact that inflation would not have been foreseeable is, therefore, indeed incorrect, because I said so. This inflation was partly caused by the over-expansion of monetary policy for many years and the purchase of South European debt by the European Central Bank to maintain the euro under the motto: whatever it takes. As we speak, the euro has just reached parity with the US dollar. As a result, inflation will continue to increase and prices will rise even further as imports into US dollars become more expensive. This is certainly true of the energy. If the cabinet has this right on the radar, our question is to the Minister of Finance. Because the euro is now falling below the dollar and that makes it all extremely much more expensive. At the beginning of this year it was 1.14, so it goes very quickly. Everything's getting more expensive. Everything's rising. But one thing is not rising and that is the disposable income of many Dutch people. The impact of this crisis is very uneven in society. In the Netherlands there is a real difference between a group of haves and a fast growing group of portots. These developments are happening very quickly. The haves usually vote for the coalition parties. You don't hear that one. I also notice that no coalition party is taking part in this debate. That's not a coincidence. It's all okay with people. Who are those people who complain about those high bills, the haves think. But there is enormous discontent among millions of people who are now taking a disproportionate and unjustly large part of the economic blows: millions ofzzp'ers, people with temporary contracts, entrepreneurs who have massively absorbed their reserves over two years of corona, but also pensioners and farmers. The latter are the victims of bizarre nitrogen measures and are threatened by their existence. It has already been recalled by others that the cabinet has assumed for far too long that poverty policy should focus on the so-called real minimums. But the cabinet had and does not have enough on the radar that especially the middle class is now facing enormous rising costs and that millions of people are no longer able to make ends meet. It is a question of liquidity, as Mr Crone said. There is a danger that a lot of people are now going to make debts in order to make ends meet and that they will not be able to get out of them. Then their perspective on improvement disappears completely. That's when the trouble really starts. But by then, Captain Rutte will have long left the ship and gained a high position elsewhere. Others may go and clean up the mess. The Central Planning Bureau underestimates the seriousness of the situation based on models that work less well in rapidly changing situations, such as now, in which the various economic actors quickly change their expectations and actions. The CPB believes that the middle class can still interpenerate on savings to maintain the disposable income. That really seems too optimistic. It is also about far more households than the CPB suspects. A lot of people probably run out of savings. And also for the savings is the difference in the haves and the portots. The speed of current developments seems to have surprised the cabinet. Unfortunately, his proactive actions on the basis of intuition and good judgment are not exactly the strong points of this cabinet, but in this case there is too late action, or simply not at all. We were just talking about the implementation problems. This cabinet is completely lost in a self-created labyrinth, full of inimitable and unexecutable bureaucratic procedures, rules and models. The Netherlands dies in planning agencies: the Planning Bureau for the Environment, the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau, of course the Central Planning Bureau, the SER. It seems that everything in this country needs to be planned and coordinated in detail. Plans are leading, reality adapts to them. RIVM corona models, nitrogen models, AERIUS models, surcharges, supplemental issues, unfulfillable solutions for the surcharge affair, VAT rates that cannot be reduced. The cabinet has already had to hire an office to answer the question of what vegetables is and what fruits; you don't make it up. If there is no planning agency, no model and no endless series of precious external advisors involved for a problem, then these process managers seem to have no idea what to do. And the chief process manager certainly doesn't. What do we have to do now? First of all, work needs more wages and more work needs more wages as well. The tax system now needs to be simplified quickly. We have mentioned this several times, also in the General Reviews and the General Financial Reviews. With much higher tax rebates to accommodate the rapidly growing group that is no longer able to make ends meet. A transparent tax system, so that people know where they stand and that is much easier to implement. We have already presented examples in various debates. Look, for example, at the English system, with a high tax discount, which is again straightened out for high incomes. That makes it all much simpler and much clearer what you're working for. The incentives are therefore much better regulated and much better implemented. Then we can reduce the surcharges, because that has gotten completely out of hand and is becoming more and more difficult to implement. We finance these measures by using funds from the 100 billion in various megalomaniac climate, transition and nitrogen funds for this purpose. I saw tonight that another billion has been allocated to freeing the municipality of Heeg from natural gas. Soon people will have a gas-free house and a windmill in the garden, but no more bread on the shelf. That is the way this policy is going, if we continue to do so. If these climate funds are to be continued for political reasons, even if there is little support for them, look at the EUR 1 000 billion in natural gas in Groningen and use it, provided, of course, that there is very generous, unbureaucratic and rapid compensation from the duped Groningers, for at least EUR 10 billion or something like that. Mr President, I will conclude. And why don't you get good people in the Tax Office who can do this instead of constantly harassing Parliament with all kinds of implementation problems? If you need more money for good people, pay them better and make sure they can focus on their work instead of all kinds of bureaucratic polder problems. Mr President, I will conclude. Our group has been proposing realistic solutions in this First Chamber for three years on a paper on all kinds of issues, which are now really needed to get the Netherlands back on the economic path. We don't do that because we like it so much or because we want to score in the press, no, we do that because we think it's really necessary. But this cabinet doesn't want or can't, or worse: both. Everything is seen as a fight. Business needs to be spilt. It's all about imaging, spin doctors, models and procedures. Why don't you stop doing that? Just do what is good for the Netherlands and the inhabitants of the Netherlands. Take off those economic blinkers. Accelerate the structural changes that are long needed and implement them decisively and vigorously. So much for my first term. We would like to hear from the rulers how they are going to handle this, and not why they can't do it all. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u46	Thank you, Mr. Otten. Mr Van Rooijen has the floor on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u47	Mr. Chairman. The 50PLUS Group very much appreciates the government's desire to share with us tonight the concerns of young and old in such a large number. In my contribution, I would like to address the following six themes on purchasing power in the broadest sense. One, the task of the First Chamber to provide a legal basis for government policy, including on purchasing power. Legislation is too important to deal sloppyly with. Two, the distinction between workers and no longer employed. This has been done for a long time, but older people no longer have earning capacity, other than the workers. Three, purchasing power. The government's money bounce for public purposes, with 80 billion for all kinds of funds, but too little money to support citizens' purchasing power. Four, the AOW and abolition of the IO-AOW. I'll get back to you on that. Five, taxing the AOW with a profit warning. Six, indexing pensions, fair for improving the purchasing power of young and old. Mr. Chairman. Point one, the legal basis for policy and quality of legislation. The Senate is approachable and should remain accountable to the quality of legislation. A recent quote by Tjeenk Willink: "There is a chronic lack of political interest in the feasibility and implementation of the policy." The Millions note and, to a lesser extent, the Spring Note brings about an overall balance of all requirements for expenditure. The cabinet has a commendable intention to come forward with the most important budget proposals and tax proposals in the future in spring. Our question is: what is the situation with that? Does that happen in view of next year's Million Note 2024? It's urgent. It's five to twelve. I'd like an answer. The fact that we are talking about supplementary budgets for finance and social affairs is quite exceptional. This is a bridge to the phenomenon that new expenditures have already entered into force without the approval of the two Chambers. We saw it with the payment of €30,000 in the childcare allowance. We see it now with the energy compensation of €800 and now €1,300 for the minima, but not for the poor workers. The law was submitted late, was approved last week in the House of Representatives and does not come until after the recess in the House of Representatives. It is a question of new expenditure without a legal basis. New tax changes are in danger, even without a legal basis. On 28 June, the Senate had to approve a tax reduction of 2 billion ECU as a hammerpiece. After all, there was no time for treatment before 1 July. Can the Secretary of State undertake to do so once and not again? In other words, is he, and also the cabinet, prepared to point out to the House of Representatives that the adoption of laws one week before the date of entry into force means that the First Chamber can no longer deal with the law, let alone approve it? The Finance Committee has indicated that introduction by policy decision of the Secretary of State was not and is not the royal route. We understand that the cabinet does not like ruling by policy decision either. It comes soon with a letter to both chambers. Please confirm: when will the letter arrive? The rule by letter, note and policy decision is at odds with an orderly legislative process and increasingly affects the democratic order. I am not concealing the fact that Mr Omtzigt in the House of Representatives is also calling heavily for this. I advise the cabinet and colleagues to read the recent, first Tjeenk Willink lecture. Yeah, from Herman himself. It is high time for the First Chamber to draw a line: up to here and no further. The Senate must make it clear to the House of Representatives that it cannot go on like this. The House of Representatives is putting the Senate more and more on the line and thus undermining our legislative mandate. Mr. Chairman. Part Two: Distinction between workers and no longer employed. The leitmotiv of my contribution is the policy of the cabinet: except the AOW and except the AOW'ers. We're second-class citizens, kids off the account. In the coalition agreement, the cabinet provides 3 billion relief for middle income. From the texts of the coalition agreement it can be deduced that it is meant: for workers, because work must pay. Our question is: does this also apply to the middle incomes of AOW'ers? Because they're always excluded. Can the Secretary of State undertake that no longer working AOWs will share in the tax reduction of 3 billion? This is because the reduction in working hours is considerably increased. I read a confirmation in the interview with Secretary of State Van Rij in De Telegraaf last Saturday. Question: will there be purchasing power repair for middle incomes? Answer: yes, it needs more wages to work. Short and powerful. The 50PLUS Group does not accept relief for workers alone, because it is unfair. The rise in inflation affects everyone, including the elderly. The middle income of older people has been hit by the 15 years of non-indexing of pensions. 30% increase in pensions is taken from old but also from young. The indexing of 1% to 2% per 1 July is a drop on a glowing plate at an inflation rate of 9%. Mr. Chairman. Then point three, the purchasing power. An important reason for this debate is politically broad shared concern about the fact that, according to the planning agency, 1.2 million households, 2.5 million people, will no longer be able to pay their bills within a few months. What does the Cabinet do? After the invasion of Russia and the inflation explosion that followed, political debate was held from early spring and said: Cabinet, do more quickly. It is a missed chance that no generic tax reduction has been introduced as of 1 July, which could, and should perhaps, be, inherently one-off. Why didn't that happen on July 1st? Much of the current misery and patchwork would have been spared. In December, the First Chamber voted in favour of my motion for a one-off increase in the AOW by €200. What about the performance of that 50PLUS motion? My group does not prejudice the €1,300 measure for the minima. That's what it takes. But that didn't help the modal and middle incomes. That could have been done with a tax reduction on 1 July. Then what is there as of 1 January 2023, or earlier, possibly, so I ask the cabinet. My group makes the following proposals and asks the directors to respond briefly and clearly to each proposal. One. Extend the current one-time lighting of 2 billion. The Secretary of State has already hinted at that, but can he now agree to this? Two. Is an unpaid cheque possible in January 2023, or earlier, to as large a group as possible? What do we learn from the French check from last year? The German cabinet is now also considering an unpaid cheque as a means of exerting pressure against excessive wage increases. Three. A one-off increase in family allowances is very targeted. After all, families with children feel the high food and energy prices extra hard. Can we do that by October 1st? I also refer to the contributions of Mr Van Gorp and Mr Crone. Four. Is a health check possible? This avoids postcalculation problems. The Secretary of State understands what I mean, of course. Then I don't have to explain. Five. A very unorthodox solution is the one-off payment of tax rebates in 2023. Unorthodox, because never shown, but they are also unorthodox times. The CDA group in the Lower House has repeatedly asked whether solutions could be found for this in the past, because non-silvering is rising to fairly high levels. Cashing helps those who need it the most, namely the bottom that does not pay taxes and therefore cannot collect discounts. Then the last point, point six. Extreme inflation also has the effect that AOW'ers are much faster on the higher tax base due to the so-called sustainability contribution, better known or infamous as the forest tax. That is a form of pure tax age discrimination. We want a standstill of the forest tax, otherwise a group of AOWs will jump to a higher rate with 18% or 10% in one go. That's a bit harsh, especially now. I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. Chapter four: the AOW and the IO-AOW. The cabinet wants to use the abolition of the IO-AOW as cover for linking the AOW to the additional increase in the minimum wage. The Senate adopted a 50PLUS motion on this matter this afternoon. I am very grateful to the entire opposition for that. That motion is against the abolition of the IO-AOW, requesting that other cover be sought. We ask the cabinet: are you going to carry out the motion that was adopted this afternoon? Is the Cabinet prepared, as the motion asks, to take that other cover? I'd like an answer. Let me make it clear once again, also to those who have wholeheartedly supported the motion: the purpose of the motion is to seek cover for all taxpayers, all income groups and all businesses, and not just the AOWers group. Solid cover, I call that. Abolition of the IO-AOW is about big money. After an increase of 2.3 billion, AOW expenditure is cut by half by 1.1 billion. So that is roughly half the 7.5% increase. So you're left with about 3%, 4%. The impact of abolishing the IO-AOW is very large. It hits the people with only AOW and with a small pension the hardest. In the case of single people, this is a reduction in the increase of €350. For people living together, this is €704. This is evident from the answers to question 152 of the Spring Note in the Lower House. This isn't supposed to happen, is it? You give with one hand and you take half with the other hand. Mr. Chairman. Then the taxization of the AOW; point five. Why is the 50PLUS Group now discussing fiscalisation? We want to clarify whether the cabinet is considering taxing the AOW. Fiscalising the AOW is unacceptable to the 50PLUS Group. We want an answer straight away. Don't dive tonight. This is a tax increase of 5.5 billion for the AOWs. Gross is even 11 billion, but that aside. This 5.5 billion is levied on people with a small supplementary pension. I therefore call this fiscalisation a vulgar pension tax. After all, fiscalization of the AOW I have to explain it to you... would have a huge negative income effect. It is about 11% reduction for an AOWer with €10,000 pension and a decrease of 15%, I repeat: 15% for an AOWer with €20,000 pension. Fiscalisation means that AOWers will pay 18% premium on their income up to the income limit of €35,000. The answers to our questions to the committee's report show that, in the event of a complete tax reduction of between 11% and 15%, there is therefore a large fall in income. I repeat, 11% to 15% drop in income. There are parties who think that fiscalisation is normal. Explain it to me. The net burden increase is 5.5 billion, as I said. The fiscalisation affects only AOWs with a supplementary pension, as I said. After all, the AOW itself is used in fiscalisation because of the net net coupling.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u48	The fiscalisation was introduced a long time ago, perhaps under the Den Uyl cabinet or shortly after. But do you remember why it was introduced?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u49	I can explain it to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u50	The fiscalisation was introduced because the AOW premium became so high that workers had to pay more and more. That was possible at the time, but we are now moving towards fewer and fewer workers on fewer and fewer pensioners. It has been said that we are setting a ceiling on the AOW contribution for workers. What you're saying means that the AOW premium is going up again.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u51	I'm trying to explain. Firstly, the maximisation of the premium, whatever it may be, has ultimately, in 20 years, led to the AOW expenditure of 40 billion for 20 billion being paid by the taxpayer; of these 20 billion, many billion are paid by the AOW. They pay by tax to their own AOW. That's point one. Two. Because of the astronomical height of the labour discount above €4,000, it is true that the employees in practice, because of these high discounts, the general discount and the labour discount, only 4% to 8% effective AOW premium; thezzp'ers have been paying 0% AOW premium for years. And then some parties talk about fiscalisation, which means that the AOWs will have to pay 18%, even in reality, of their supplementary pension, a pension that has not been indexed for 15 years and will also not be indexed in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u52	But we'll agree, won't we? We want the AOW to be paid according to carrying capacity over all incomes, high and low, young and old. You are always talking about fiscalisation as if it were paid only by the elderly, but that is not the issue at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u53	I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u54	No, but that's the implication because you come back to that group every time, who has to pay so much extra. This is also paid by people under 65, through the AOW premium and through their share of the fiscalisation. You use big words about that, but it's just a matter of measure. In the purchasing power picture, that is not so bad. The government has applied many AOW adjustments, including the IO-AOW, which has resulted in a loss of purchasing power, regardless of the supplementary pension, deferred pay. Not much has gone wrong in the financing. It would have gone wrong if we had not done the fiscalisation, because we would now have lost a lot of jobs because of far too high labour costs due to a higher AOW premium.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u55	I think you misunderstood me. I am not talking about the fact that the premium has been 18% for a very long time and that there is a State contribution of 20 billion. You can't hear me about that. That is a fact, a consequence of the past. What I'm talking about is that those who advocate taxing the AOW... that state contribution is actually an indirect fiscalisation. I am talking about the real, direct fiscalisation that is in some electoral programmes and should be there within five years. I will not mention the names of the parties; I do not want to make it too political. But fiscalisation means: 18% contribution by the AOW's on the supplementary pension up to a maximum of €35,000. The income limit for AOW insurance is €35,000. That is the end of the AOW, because that tax is not levied on it, by the net net coupling. Then you're about, depending on whether you live together or are single, 20 million left over, so that 18% is charged. I'll get back to the number later. That's what I'm talking about. That means an increase of 5.5 billion. Fortunately, that is not in the programme of the PvdA; I would like to add that. It is a burden increase of 5.5 billion and it has income effects from 11% to 15% for people with €10,000 or €20,000 supplementary pension gross.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u56	Then I'll go to Mrs Moonen of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u57	Mr. Van Rooijen was once Secretary of State at Finance; I was an official at Finance for many years. We both know very well that if you want to spend extra money, you have to take care of the cover yourself. You say you don't think the IO-AOW is a good idea. My question to Mr Van Rooijen would be the following. You have just mentioned a whole list of things you think the government should do. What proposals do you have for covering this expenditure?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u58	We will, of course, take care of that cover. I have indicated that this coverage should be shared by all income groups, by the groups that supported it. So we shall come back to that. That's what's going on. We are talking here about the first step on the principle path of fiscalisation. Then there is no turning back, as the forest tax has learned. In our view, fiscalisation is all the more unfair because workers pay almost no more AOW premium. I have already said it because of these high discounts. AOW'ers have a different item "but half a general tax discount'. Not €2,000, but about €1,000. The argument was: they do not pay an AOW premium. But the workers pay almost no AOW premium and thezzp'ers do not. They do have the whole tax discount. That is, of course, no longer to be defended for that reason. Mr. Chairman. Finally, the indexing of pensions for young and old, with which I am right, if necessary, to correct a misunderstanding. I often talk about indexing. I won't use another word tonight. I've done it so far, but I don't know if I can keep it up. I'm gonna do it anyway: the arithmetic rate is the last week...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u59	Yes, I wasn't going to, but the phenomenon of arithmetic interest rates has fallen from 2.1% over the last two weeks to 1.44% tonight. I just checked, and I got a call, too. That's two-thirds. That's 10% coverage. I am not talking about the fall in value on the asset side. This will be a tragedy, also on January 1st. Of the promised indexation, little will be left for 10% inflation. Mr. Chairman. I was talking about indexing. 5% extra indexing will be proposed by my group in January 2023. My group calls this an unorthodox solution to purchasing power for the coming period. Supplementary pension index on 1 January. The general measure of governance allowed a crumb index of 1% to 2% on 1 July for pension funds intending to move to the new system. I'm not gonna talk about that tonight, because it's gonna be tomorrow morning. This can be done again on 1 January 2023, of course. Uncertain is how high the pension index will then become. My group wants to remove this uncertainty by asking for an additional 5% increase in pensions, and I must indeed point out that the level of cover is falling apart. It would be our wish if, fortunately, that could recover. Can the Minister for Poverty Policy, Participation and Pensions respond to this? Is an additional special AMvB possible, if necessary regardless of the percentage? It's a very modest step towards catching up. With a pension of €10,000, 5% is €500 for young and old. It doesn't cost anything: it even brings in money. Finally, the catch-up index. In the House of Representatives a motion of JA21 was adopted.I look at colleague Van der Linden, with the support of the VVD I look at the VVD-group in the House of Representatives through this Eerste Kamergroep (Eerste Kamergroep) in which it says: use the current additional VAT revenue for tax reduction for the middle groups. In my opinion, Minister Kaag was right to point out that this is in breach of budgetary rules. That motion does give me reason to put the indexing on the table now. After all, overtaking indexing falls into the new system. For the record, 50PLUS is against this new system. 2023 is the last year to allow catching-up indexing under the current system. All 7 million participants and 3 million pensioners have now missed 30% indexation. 130 billion pension increases are taken away by law. Legal theft is what I call it. If the cabinet allows pension funds to apply maximum catch-up indexing, there will be a one-off large additional structural tax revenue.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u60	You have one minute. If you finish your speech, then we will go to Mr Crone.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u61	I've got one more edge, Mr. Chairman. I thought Mr Crone wanted to ask a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u62	No, you finish it first. Now half a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u63	To give you an idea: 30% of the index has been missed since 2008. The indexing deficit of pensioners is already 55 billion. What was it called again? Black Swans of Call Max. In fact, there are 75 billion workers who are lagging behind in indexing. If these 55 billion were to be paid to pensioners, the Treasury would receive an additional annual tax revenue of 12-15 billion, excluding the VAT effect. Because of the budgetary rules, I hesitate to table a motion as JA21 did in the Lower House. Is the Cabinet prepared to examine this constructive thought and inform the Chamber about the results for Princess Day? I'm also curious to see what the VVD spokesperson thinks about this. Finally, Mr President. I predict that only the workers will receive the tax relief of 3 billion via the goat path of the sacred labour discount. This path has been under way since 2001 and leads to pure tax age discrimination through the sky-high labour discount of €4,000. If this continues, we end up in a separate income tax for workers and for AOW'ers, the no longer employed: a working box and an AOW-box. Who could have guessed that? There is a clear pattern: taking older people where you can; they do not go to the Malieveld and when the blows phase out, as with the fiscalisation, it seems to be not so bad. 50PLUS looks forward and does not fall into this trap. I am extremely curious about the answers of the rulers.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u64	Thank you, Mr. Van Rooijen. Mr Crone.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u65	75 billion indexing for pensioners. What does that mean for those who have not yet retired? You said that the participants also get a higher claim, because they also grow old.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u66	I thought I made that clear: for young and old. When I talk about 5% or any percentage, I'm talking about young and old. It will appeal to Mr Crone for the new system to eliminate the general problem...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u67	Let's just get the current system...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u68	No, older workers have much less structure. So if you index extra, for example a few percent per January, and make the catch-up index maximum, then you give the older workers a higher build-up before they have to transfer to the new system. That is also a serious aspect for us.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u69	But that wasn't the point at all. Is that 75 billion for old and...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u70	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u71	You said it's only for the elderly.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u72	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u73	How much do you need from the cashier for those claims...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u74	I'll repeat it. Black Swans calculated that, but I had already made that calculation. The catching-up index, the missing indexing from 2008, is 55 billion for pensioners and 75 billion for the larger group of workers.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u75	The supplementary budget will be...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u76	I'd still like to decide who gets the floor. I now give you the final word for your interruption, your third question. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u77	It's twice as much money as it is. For the supplementary budget we are now at 150 billion. You spend money that's been saved because it's been held in. Every year, you are proud to pay 7% interest. If you had previously paid it, you would not have been able to save and there would have been no interest on interest. Because we've been saving up, you can spend it now. At the same time, you say: we should not have saved, we should have spent it much earlier. You can't have the cake and eat it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u78	50PLUS and I defend, even before I was in politics... I'll put it another way: the phenomenon is no good. As a result, there has never been indexed for 15 years. I'm not looking back, but certainly because there's a new system in which that catch-up index is no longer possible, I'm asking you to try to index not the whole 55 billion, but as much as possible before you go to the new system, because that also determines your start-up capital in the new system. That is the only meaning of this argument, for young and old.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u79	Thank you. For young and old. Then we go to Mr Schalk on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u80	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This morning about seven o'clock I had a quiet moment in which I read Psalm 82. I stuck with the third verse, where it says: do justice to the poor and the orphan. That lingered for a while, because in the last year we talked a great deal about unprecedented injustice surrounding the premium affair. That is not on the agenda, but my input today will include increasing poverty, as Minister Kaag also made the very realistic remark yesterday that we will be collectively poorer. I will also talk about known injustice, when we talk about financial policy vis-à-vis families. I am particularly concerned today about the purchasing power of low and middle incomes. I am happy and thank Minister Van Gennip for letting me find on page 134 of the Spring Bill that the Bill will not index child benefit will be withdrawn. That has already happened. Fortunately, some work has been done for the lowest incomes, especially due to the €800 energy surcharge. In addition, during the Second Chamber debate on the Spring note, the cabinet came up with €500 extra for income up to 120% of the social minimum. In total, this amounts to €1,300 for people with incomes up to 120% of the social minimum. The first question is, of course, when they can have this amount in the account. Does the government perhaps have the opportunity to encourage municipalities to look for troubles that so far, perhaps due to ignorance, have not reported? As far as these people are on welfare, they're known, but what about the others? In any case, the lowest-paid are somewhat supported. My group is grateful for that. According to the CPB, this amounts to about 480,000 households with an income up to about 120% of the social minimum. But what about the group just above that, the low middle incomes with an income of 120% of the social minimum to moderate? According to the same CPB report, these are 560,000 households. This group is getting a bit shaky, because if you earn €1 more than the established social minimum of 120%, you get exactly €0. That social minimum is at €1,756,10, but if you earn €1,757,10, then you are completely out of the €1,300 that the very low-paid get in any case. Isn't that very unfair? Doesn't that also show that more needs to be done for low and middle incomes? I am thinking, for example, of reducing tax rates in income tax. Is that perhaps an option for 2023, I ask the government. I'm considering a motion on that point. Mr. Chairman. I understand that we are too late for this group to accept the Spring Note, but we are working very hard on the budget for 2023 in the coming weeks. Is the government prepared to do something for the group which can therefore be referred to as 'known injustice'? Those are the families that may also have to do with the supplementing affair, such as single-parent families. But there are also other groups who are well-knownly wronged: the one-earners. I admit I've talked about that before, but from the eminent VVD'er Bolkestein I understand that, if you want to make a point, you have to pay a little bit for it. That is why I am asking the following five questions with full conviction. Does the government agree with my group that a earner pays up to seven times as much tax as two-earners? Two. Is it true that this is only justified by the desire to send everyone into the labour market? Three. Does the government agree with the SGP group that it is important for parents themselves to be able to choose to raise their children in the safe setting of their own home? Four. Should I see it in a way that a earner is more or less punished with a high tax burden if they choose their family? Five. Does the government still consider this punishment to be proportionate by a factor of seven? In both Chambers of the States-General, motions have been tabled in this area in the years to come. Sometimes they've been hired, too. In short, how can the gap between one and two earners be reduced? This is all the more so because we are burdening the current way of earners also make it difficult to provide care and volunteer work, whereas the cabinet actually calls for us to do more about it. Mr. Chairman. We also see that the government is taking measures by reducing VAT on energy. Beautiful, but my group believes that this is particularly beneficial for the higher-paid. Is it not better to come up with a measure that strikes down on those who are or are experiencing very difficult times, namely those who earn up to once a fashion? Especially in view of the current dramatic inflation rates, which are on average around 10%, this is not a luxury. What can and will the government do about this in the 2023 budget? I understand what Minister Kaag said this week, namely that the government cannot compensate for everything. Money is just not free, certainly not with the rising interest rate. But Minister Kaag also said, "I have just mentioned that we are "collectively getting a little poorer" or words of that kind. But if families really can't make ends meet, the government has to act as shields for the weak. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I would like to make a few comments on the financial soundness. Much has, of course, happened since the coalition agreement was concluded. That's not all the government's fault, but maybe some of it is. The tension on the nitrogen dossier, for example, is causing enormous social unrest, which immediately translates into declining confidence in the government and in the economic system. Stop it. Let us make real proposals and, above all, let us avoid increasing debt. Can my group assume that the 2023 budget will begin with a solid recovery in public finances? Mr. Chairman. The government cannot continue to spend and shift its burden to the future. The question is therefore whether the government will intervene by cutting expenditure, by cutting savings, or by shifting funds from the various funds to supporting policies. Mr President, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u81	Thank you, Mr. Schalk. Finally, Mr Koffeman has the floor on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u82	Thank you, Mr President. More and more people come into trouble because of different causes, but the main thread is that they are victims of government policy, or at least stumble over the holes that the government drops. The question that will increasingly be asked is: whose fault is that? Since we are talking today about public debt, it would certainly be useful to appoint a heavily damaged group, which seems to have been forgotten in the supplementary budgets, here: the students of the unlucky generation. More and more people are having trouble paying their bills. This applies not only to the lowest incomes and households dependent on benefits, but also to two-earners with a moderate income. These are American situations: you have to have two jobs in order to make ends meet. That once seemed unimaginable, but for many people it is now the bitter reality. Inflation was 8.6% in June. A substantial reduction is not yet in sight. European monetary policy makes it difficult to put things right at home. The most basic foods, such as vegetables, bread and baby food, are no longer available to anyone, and also filling a tank or heating your home hurts in your wallet. We all know the poignant stories of people who try to cut back by letting out the light and the heating at home, and who try to get rid of it with waxin lights. That's harsh when you live in one of the most prosperous countries in the world. The division is getting harrowing. Mr. Chairman. The cabinet tries to alleviate the suffering for some groups of Dutch, but there seems to be no coherent vision behind that. The one-off energy surcharge of €800, which is made available to lower incomes by municipalities through the Participation Act, is a fine gesture, but does not provide structural solutions, especially for those on low incomes. Mr. Chairman. Today we support in this House a motion of 50PLUS, in which the shortening of the IO-AOW was reversed. AOW'ers are struggling financially and we think it is important that this group does not get into financial trouble or get a cigar out of its own box. Mr. Chairman. Students are also in a very plightful position. My group finds it incomprehensible that students should be skipped with the energy surcharge. At least, in the directive of the law on participation, we read that municipalities are advised by the VNG to exclude students. That while students often live in poorly isolated rooms and can therefore face an extremely high energy bill. The Dutch Student Union opened the Energy Poverty Communication Point and already announced in March that it would receive signals from students who had lost €50 to €80 extra per month to their room. That is a huge increase in the monthly burden for most students. And the pressure students experience is already high. I quote a student who reported to the LSVb: "After a huge increase in the energy bill, I asked the landlord if they wanted to invest in insulation. But they weren't willing to. We do not have the financial resources for this, the thermostat is now between 15 and 17 degrees to keep costs low. We don't get energy compensation because we're students." Mr. Chairman. Legal expert Willy Heesen found in June that excluding students as a group should not be allowed at all. In his opinion, students who would bring a case against their congregation have a great chance of being right in court. Can the Minister please tell us what she thinks of that? Does she think students should really go to court to claim the energy surcharge? Mr. Chairman. We find it strange that the government is taking 880 million from the climate fund and 660 million from the nitrogen fund to mitigate the effects of high inflation. It's like we're not in a climate crisis. And that while we're heading towards exceeding the 1.5 degree warming we agreed on in Paris, not to mention the sixth wave of extinction. Can the Minister explain why the cabinet has chosen to withdraw funds from these funds? After all, it sends out the message that these funds would seem to be less important than other social problems. Mr. Chairman. Back to the students. The social loan system was introduced by the House of Representatives in 2015. The loan system wouldn't affect your mortgage. The interest rate on your student loan was low and would be easy to earn back if you had graduated because the jobs were for picking up. That's how the DUO loan came into being. Where expatriate students received €270 basic grant before then, which after four years of study amounts to about €14,000, they now get nothing. Thus, with a failed experiment, the government created a generation with more debts, fewer opportunities and more stress than the generations before and after them. In 2022 it is now clear that the abolition of the basic grant was far from social. Not for nothing is this the last year that students have to do with the loan system. Nor was there any truth to the promise that the student debt would not count for your mortgage, quite the contrary. Starters who are now entering the already overcrowded housing market, discover that they are certainly not being received with open arms at the bank. Renting is also impossible, because the waiting lists for social rental are long and in the private rental sector exorbitant amounts are demanded, which are hardly anyone to pay, especially by students. That is certainly not the case if you are a starter, or a duo of two starters, with student debts. Together with your partner buying a house, the bank doesn't like it either, because two student loans are by definition an impossibility for the bank. Students from this so-called unlucky generation are trapped like rats. The 1 billion that the cabinet took out for students is nothing more than a tissue for bleeding. It amounts to €1,000 per student and that puts very little effort into it at the moment. Mr. Chairman. The cabinet claims that the climate targets remain in place despite the grip on the nitrogen and climate greenhouses. We've got a hard head in there. When is the government going to stop funding fossil fuels and support the latest contractions of the fossil industry, paying billions of dollars to fossil profit makers like RWE, while low incomes have to turn every dime to make ends meet? I look forward to the answers of the rulers.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u83	Thank you. Let me see if one of the Members wishes to speak in the first term. That is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u84	Who can I give the floor to first? I give the floor to the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u85	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We have made a list among the directors, so that you have an insight into the distribution. But I'll wait, because our printer didn't. I'll just make a few introductory remarks and hopefully I'll have the list. In general terms, you can imagine that I will answer the general questions about the budget, the Minister of Social Affairs everything about purchasing power in detail, the Minister for Poverty Policy and Participation many of the issues that concern poverty and, of course, benefits at municipal level, including the recent scheme and the energy allowance, and the Secretary of State for Taxation all tax matters; many questions have also been asked about this. And then perhaps here comes a redeeming word. Yes. Well, no, this is about it. It's about the same as what I said. I shall begin with some of the suggestions you have made in today's debate and earlier. The letters of the cabinet often refer to August of this year. I think it is important to underline that in August we are looking at structural measures that we want to take to improve the income position of vulnerable households and middle incomes. There is a great deal of work to be done. The cabinet is going to look at how we can respond to the CPB's advice to make households financially more resilient, for example by looking at the minimum wage, but also at lower labour costs and supplements. Broader, as agreed in the Chamber, we will also look at a balanced purchasing power picture for the different income groups. But the message remains that we will not be able to take away all the pain. The current situation will be felt by everyone. Employers also have a role to play. There's room for wage increases. The public debate is often already talking about a one-off wagewave. Structural recovery in purchasing power must be achieved mainly by increasing wages and pensions. Then cover. For the current year, the measures are mainly covered by additional gas revenues. Structural measures also include structural cover. We will have to keep public finances in mind in order not to pass on to future generations and to respect the financial commitments. In the Spring note, a small proportion of the occasional declarations is covered by funds, while maintaining the objectives. There will be more standardisation and possibly, at a later date, pricing. Then I come to a number of general questions that have been asked about the collective loss of wealth in the context of purchasing power. Mr Crone asked for a reflection on the ruling on collective welfare loss. Is there room for redistribution? As Mr Crone knows, high inflation is not only the result of high energy prices but also of high inflation. We import energy and become collectively poorer. The CPB recently showed that our industry is able to translate these import prices into higher export prices. The collective loss of prosperity at the moment is smaller than expected. So there is room for companies to further increase wages. What I do want to highlight is that I have also tried to do so, and that was also confirmed today and yesterday in Brussels by a number of other finance ministers........................................................................................................................................................................................... There's just a lot coming at us. It is not for nothing that there is talk of the risk of short-term recession or of a technical recession. But a deeper recession and rising interest rates are also going to hit us. We are going to weigh all this at the right time, namely in the August decision-making process. We will therefore see in August what structural measures are appropriate, including to accommodate households in a vulnerable position. We are also explicitly looking at shifting taxes on labour to taxes on capital. You are also well known with the ibo of Laura of Spirit. I shared that with the Chamber on Friday, without cabinet juice. It's a heavy document. We will take all the time we need to do so, because a number of important suggestions have already been made.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u86	The reason I jumped up is the next one. We have heard for months: we are waiting for the Spring note; wait for the Spring note! The crisis gets worse every day. The energy crisis gets worse every day. And the first thing the minister says is they're gonna take a quiet look at it in August. So it's now being pushed forward to August. What's it gonna be later? The autumn note and then the winter note? Where is this minister's sense of urgency to understand what's going on? Don't you understand what's happening around you, Minister? That's what I'm wondering. You travel around the world, but also see what happens in the Netherlands. 'Cause there really is something going on. We cannot continue to postpone it and say: you will hear what we are going to do about it in two months' time. Put your house on fire, I'll call the fire department and it'll be here in two months. That's impossible, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u87	I think your question is clear. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u88	I didn't hear a question, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u89	Where's your sense of urgency?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u90	Here! Read the spring note, I say through the chairman. The previous cabinet and cabinet provided two packages: 6.5 billion! That's not free money. That's well covered. We talked to the House of Representatives about all the other measures. You saw the package. It's 38, I think. There is a deep search in the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Social Affairs and other partners to see how and in what way we might be able to compensate those who have the most difficulty. There is also an orderly process of decision-making. That takes place in every country. Especially in times of crisis, in difficult times, you have to keep your course. That's what we do as a cabinet. A sense of urgency has everyone, but calling is easier than spending sensible money and making the right investments.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u91	I very much agree with that. As far as I can, I want to stick to the normal decision-making cycle. That is why I have made it very clear that I only wish to advocate things that we will regret in September or even in August if we do not decide on them now. Can you follow that line? Because then we can focus on those things. For me, that is the child benefit and also the minimum wage. I read in the Minister's papers that it is already too late to reach 1 January if there is no decision-making in the Cabinet in August. That applies to the minimum wage. I'm not gonna go over it all again, but if we think from this system, we might have a common playing field.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u92	Definitely. Of course, this has also been looked at in detail. On 29 March, a letter was sent containing all the measures and suggestions from either the cabinet or the side of the Chamber. Everything has been looked at with open eyes and great benevolence. This is not a question of coalition opposition. This is just seeing what can and do the right thing for the people who need it. It has been shown that a great deal is simply not possible without additional obstacles. Mr Crone was right to do so. No one asked for the impossible, not even in the Lower House. In a second term we looked at the €500 option, so to speak. Until very late in the round, contacts, but also the Minister for Poverty Policy, Participation and Pensions, the Minister for APP, easily said, looked at whether this was possible. At the eleventh hour we received a confirmation from the municipalities, also from their goodwill. They said: we don't really want this, it can't be, it's too difficult for all kinds of legitimate reasons, but we're going to do it anyway. For example, the debate in the Lower House finally landed on that option. But there was always an open mind to do it. We can go off all the measures one more time. Mr Crone does not say that. The various directors will once again appoint them from their policy areas and explain the specific questions that fall within their mandate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u93	I would like to come back to what the Minister said in response to the opinion of the planning agency, that the cabinet is thinking of raising the minimum wage, reducing the tax on labour and the surcharges. And balanced purchasing power policy for various groups, I'll add that. But do I hear the Minister say that something is happening for minimum wage, labour and allowances, but not for the elderly and not for the AOWs? That's what the Minister says, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u94	We didn't mention everything. There's a very long list we're going to look at in August. Everything is being considered, but as I always say, inside what is possible. It needs to be covered, and in a sensible way, within the frameworks that we have established with each other, and that is not in this cabinet period, but for years and years.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u95	I agree with the Minister, but if she says this, I can assume that there will also be measures for the AOWs. Of course, there should be cover for measures for non-AOWs and AOWs, but does the Minister recognise that if you do what for the workers, you also do for the elderly, the no longer employed, what should be done in the context of relief? Of course with cover, I agree with the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u96	I agree with Mr Van Rooijen, but now he is making a conclusion in my words that is not meant to be. We're gonna weigh the whole situation in August. There is a whole set of items that still need to be discussed, but you cannot conclude from this that there will be specific new measures for each population group, even in this case the AOW'ers. You can't conclude that from here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u97	Finally, Mr. Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u98	You don't have to guarantee anything, because you still have to decide, I understand. But I would like to hear clearly from the Minister that she does not exclude the AOWs if measures are put in place for the workers. You say: yes, I am not going to say anything specifically about the elderly group, but you say something specific about minimum wage, bonuses and tax cuts for labour. If you mention these categories, by not mentioning them, you will provoke me to ask that the other should be taken with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u99	Finally, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u100	These categories were special, regardless of the pensioners, the AOWs, to which you refer. They were also mentioned in the Spring Note. That's already public knowledge. That's what we've been communicating about. That's why I mentioned them in particular.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u101	Then I suggest we give the Minister a chance to pursue her argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u102	Mr Kox asks whether we cannot or do not want to take additional purchasing power measures. As I have just said, we have really expanded, benevolent, with an open view of all the measures that have been mentioned. It's a predictable set of measures. The entire palette has been ripped open by the opposition, the cabinet and the coalition, because we've gone all the way. You have also heard that for many of the measures there are major disadvantages in implementation, disadvantages which we do not consider to be justified. Adjustments in surcharges or taxes can lead to delays in current journeys and also delays in regular payments, with an undesirable effect. We have also looked at the focus of the measures, because in the total package of 6.5 billion we were rightly criticised that some elements were too generic. We wanted to support the most vulnerable households and many of the measures do not necessarily meet this condition, either because they are very unfocused or because they also benefit too large a population. However, a step is being taken, such as the choice you are aware of, after consultation with municipalities, that under conditions they can raise the energy surcharge to €1,300, i.e. €800 plus €500. We are now looking in particular at structural measures which can also benefit people with low and middle incomes, without any implementation concerns. You also suggested that there might be a difference of opinion between the Prime Minister and myself. This was absolutely out of the question. In the explanatory statement to the letter on the purchasing power measures examined, the Prime Minister indicated that money was not the problem. That came in the course of the debate, because we really went off. This is also explained in detail in the letter of 1 July. All this is based on one-off measures. My reaction yesterday was about the structural effect of higher inflation. I wanted to make a point, which we have made several times, and I was, frankly, a little surprised that it was quoted by newspapers at all. It is not financially sustainable to be able and willing to compensate for everything continuously, in the long term. We have said this since the start of this cabinet period.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u103	It is, of course, very nice that the Minister of Finance says: there is no hair between my view and that of the Prime Minister. However, the fact that not only I but also the Dutch media thought it worthwhile to report in detail on what you said in Brussels gives me the feeling that I may ask you to explain it again. The Prime Minister says in the House of Representatives: "I'd love to do what you want, but we can't. Our systems aren't right. Computer says no." None of that was said by the Minister in Brussels. The Minister said: "We must bear in mind that we are becoming collectively poorer. We're all gonna make something out of it. We can't compensate for everything." So that wasn't "computer says no." No, that was a political choice made by the Minister together with other ministers from the eurogroup. I think there's a difference. If not, then the Prime Minister has expressed himself in a wonderful way again, because I got: we want, but we can't. But this minister said we can, but we don't want to.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u104	Well, no. I think you're very... you paraphrase it and put it opposite each other. That is absolutely not the case. You take an element from a long debate with the Prime Minister about the Spring Note and you take one element from a question from foreign journalists to me about what I'm going to do. Then the general message is: there is nothing else we can do, and we should not want to do so. I am talking to Finance Ministers about the general situation, the risk of recession, and-and-and-and-and-a-half. As far as I am concerned, and also as far as the Prime Minister is concerned, there is no light at all. In the debate a number of parties indeed argued that the cabinet could but would not want it. In the correct answer to that question........................................................................................................................................................... We've examined everything, but we can't." At a later point he could confirm that it could still be done via the municipal route. I would very much like to ensure that a contradiction is created here that is absolutely not there.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u105	I'm a politician, so I'm gonna be a bad person, because that's how I'm trying to construct it. But to be honest, Madam Secretary, it's not so bad for me. I found that the Prime Minister in Parliament, in the House of Representatives, said: we want to, but we can't. The opposition was very angry, because the opposition thought there could be more. At the end, €500 was added. That wasn't enough according to the opposition. Then the Minister in Brussels says: we have to take account of the structural effects. That sounds to me like: we could, but we don't want to. For good reason, by the way. Can the Minister respond to my request to look again at some of the things that we are now referring to in this Chamber? Because the government's statement "how much I love you all, but trust us that it can't" is just a little too far. You'll have to prove that you can't. You say we've looked into everything, but nothing is possible. Then I have a bit of a tendency to think: look again and look again. That's how we did it at Corona and when the war broke out in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u106	I would like once again to fight once again that there is light between the statements. As I said, you are taking an element from a very long debate, in a context. The questions that have been put to me confirm what the Prime Minister said at press conferences: we cannot compensate for everything for everyone. That's what he's been saying. We say the same thing, perhaps with just different words, but it comes down to the same thing. That's not news. That's not news. The same applies to the following. You ask us to look at it again, something we did in detail in March and now also recently in the run-up to the debate on the Spring paper, or in the run-up to the continuation of the first parliamentary term. That was the subject of a recent debate. I do not think it makes any sense, because the conclusion will be the same on the part of the cabinet. But let me now look at some of the proposals you have made. The doubling of child benefit for one quarter is 900 million. Raising the healthcare allowance by €500 is another 2.3 billion. For the unpaid care check, no specific amount has yet been mentioned. And then there's the cashable tax discount. It almost reminded me of a proposal by D66'er Steven van Weyenberg, but that could come to 5 billion. The continuation of the two packages would be 6.5 billion. Many proposals have already been made. I haven't even added it up yet. But you can already see the altitude coming. The wish list is large, I make out of this. With all due respect for Mr Kox's constructive question to look at it again, I do not think that we will come to another conclusion if we consider the same thing again. But we say: in August we want to work structurally. That is in line with the opinion of the CPB. Most of you know that it is better to help people on a structural basis. A one-time increase also causes other problems. Mr Otten asked me whether the cabinet had a good record of the effects of the euro/dollar parity. Yes. The CPB estimate of August will also take this with it. We are, of course, looking very closely at this. The June estimate of DNB provides an average inflation rate of 8.7% for the Netherlands. That's another discussion. These are 3.6% in 2023 and 2.6% in 2024. Of course, we keep track of everything, including how parity relates to it. We are dealing with a historically unprecedented situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u107	In my first term, I was talking about the obsession with planning agencies and models. For example, the latest CPB estimate is based on a euro rate of, I think, 1.16. So that is already completely out of date. You get a kind of déjà vu from the corona situation, where you also went on models about the people who were in the hospital, while the people were infected before. Now, in fact, the same thing is happening with how the Dutch economy is managed. First we have to adapt the models to the reality of today and then we are going to take measures in two months' time through the rear-view mirror.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u108	So your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u109	I just heard, I can't. Why is it not possible to pursue a more proactive policy? Why can't we? Can't these people do it? Do you employ people who can't? Where's the bottleneck that can't do it? All I hear all day is: Can't, can't, can't.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u110	Your question is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u111	Why can't we?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u112	I think this will be explained in detail by the various departments, especially by Secretary of State Van Rij, when it comes to implementation. The more important point, which I really do not want to leave out, is that I hear Mr Otten say that many of our institutions and reliable independent institutions such as the CPB and other... I'm hearing doubts about their methods and what's happening. The cabinet is waiting for the CPB's billing, as we do every year, to have the right dates of that moment, and uses them for decision-making purposes. That's a clean method. There work the ultimate experts, who are internationally known, and who are celebrated and appreciated for their expertise.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u113	That's what we all heard about the RIVM. Those were also the world-famous experts who knew it all so well. But those models were chasing the facts. Those people are gonna be pretty good. I don't want to question that at all. But you're flying in the storm and you're gonna use the flight plan from when you left, when it was still nice weather. You need to shift course. You shouldn't say we're flying in a storm now, but we'll hear it in two months...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u114	What's your question, Mr. Otten?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u115	...that we ended up in a storm. That doesn't work in a rapidly changing situation. The routine of the planning agencies does not work in such a crisis, in which everything changes very quickly. So if you want to change course, my question is for the Minister. A different approach should be adopted, which is closer to the ball. Otherwise, it won't be okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u116	I would suggest that we allow the Minister to make some progress after this, because the Minister has hardly spoken yet. Is that an idea?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u117	I'm almost done, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u118	Then I give you the opportunity to answer Mr Otten and then Mr Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u119	I've heard a suggestion, but the cabinet is holding course. It is precisely in troubled times that we have close discussions with people who know it, such as fellow ministers. Other countries do not do much else, I fear, precisely because it is very difficult. I think that in August we will indeed be faced with the consequences of rising interest rates. We need to see how the euro/dollar parity develops. We will have more setbacks and setbacks, especially few lucky ones. The sober message is that we will also have to see if something needs to be turned around. I do not want to drop the word'sustainment', because we have a trendary fiscal policy. So it's invented that it doesn't necessarily have to. But these are going to be sober times. I'm not on the stock market, so I'm not looking at the rate of the day. I'll make an informed decision with my colleagues. We hope to explain this to the Lower House and, of course, to the Upper House. Mr Koffeman asks why funds have been drawn from the funds. The cabinet paid extra money for the increase in the statutory minimum wage, the AOW and Defense, but did not want to transfer the account to future generations. So we've reprioritized part of the reservation for the new funds of these assignments. The objectives of the Funds shall remain in full force. In the area of climate and nitrogen, additional normative measures will be taken to compensate for the fact that less funding is available. The goals must be met; that is clear. I also understand the concern expressed by Mr Koffeman. I assume he means that as far as he's concerned, it's unfortunate that it happened and that he hopes it won't happen again. That is not the government's commitment, but I cannot anticipate this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u120	Of course, it's great that you can achieve the same goals with less money. Are there any other files where the cabinet can achieve the same goals with less money? My question was: how can you take money away from important files and still say that the targets remain the same? How can you continue to rely on technical measures if they have not worked each time in the past, for 20 years?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u121	I think that is two questions. By means of technical measures, I think you mean the suggestion that innovation could mean a lot to reduce nitrogen. I am not going to make any statements about that, but I think the well-known criticism is clear. You also asked: how can you trust it? It has to be standardized. Therefore, subsidy has been exchanged for normalization. So the goals must be met.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u122	Those goals must be achieved, but in many cases they are far beyond the limits of this cabinet, so to speak. It has been a habit for a long time to move the targets forward: in four years or in 2030, we really must have achieved the goals. So what are you going to do with less money to make the same progress now, in this period?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u123	That's two questions. The Minister for Climate and Energy is working hard on this, but he is also facing a rapidly changing situation. Let's say we're looking a few weeks ahead. If, for example, the Russians don't do the maintenance of Nord Stream 1 or if suddenly no gas comes, then we're back in a completely different world. Then maybe we'll have another conversation, too. I don't want to speculate about that, but of course that also hangs above us like a sword of Damocles. But the Minister for Climate and Energy is working on it and so is the Minister for Nitrogen. I do not think it is appropriate for me to discuss this further in the context of the supplementary budget for finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u124	I assume that my speech has not escaped the attention of the Minister for Finance. After all, it was not such a short speech. I have a question. I assume the Minister will come back to it. It can also be done in the second term. Then she'll be able to prepare herself for it. Because I had a short question. Could the Minister indicate, possibly in the second term or later in a letter, what is the result of the change in the euro/dollar ratio? It went from $1.20 to $1. What does that mean in the price-raising effect on inflation? Raw materials are all recorded in dollars. I heard yesterday and today from economists that that would be 15%. Han de Jong said that on BNR yesterday, too. I don't necessarily need to hear it tonight, but would you like to let me know by letter? September is a long way away. It has a dramatic effect on inflation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u125	I will gladly send you a short letter. We have also promised a longer letter to the House of Representatives on the euro area, the consequences of interest rates, the ECB's decisions and what this would possibly mean for the euro area countries. We'll share that letter with the First Chamber, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u126	May I assume that the Minister will perhaps return to my speech in the second term, in so far as it affects her directly? Other colleagues can, of course, also take part. You mentioned several colleagues, but not me.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u127	Maybe one of the other rulers will come back to it. We can wait and see. Shall we?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u128	I did not quite understand in what speech Mr Van Rooijen wants to be mentioned, because...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u129	Mr. Van Rooijen, you have to explain it again.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u130	... I'd be happy to.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u131	The Minister invites you to explain your question. But short. Do you want to press the microphone button properly?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u132	I have asked colleagues for so much time in the first term that I am not going to repeat it now. Perhaps you can see what is most pressing in my story, otherwise I have to make that selection myself and that takes way too much time. I'm sure the civil servants will be able to do that. Otherwise, I'll have to do it briefly in the second term. But I'm giving you a chance to do that tonight when it suits you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u133	I am a little perplexed about the part of the speech that Mr Van Rooijen may be shocked about. I believe that Mr Van Rij has dealt with all matters relating to taxation, and the various directors here, Mrs Van Gennip and Mrs Schouten, also deal with Mr Van Rooijen's speech, so I think he will be mentioned many times. I also promised Mr Van Rooijen a letter on questions of parity and interest. I have also said that I will share a letter promised to the House of Representatives with this Chamber. I shall mention you in detail in this regard.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u134	You've come a long way to meet me. I have one point that I mentioned at the beginning of my speech and which is perhaps the most addressed to the Minister of Finance. That's the question whether the cabinet...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u135	However, you must hold down the button of the microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u136	Not just the Secretary of State for Finance; that was about the recent policy decision on taxation. Can the Minister, on behalf of the cabinet, undertake that legislative proposals, whether fiscal or non-tax, will be with the Lower House in good time and that the Cabinet will ensure that these proposals are dealt with in time in the Lower House, by pointing them out, and that they will be voted on in time in the Second Chamber, so that we can have a reasonable period of time to have proper legislation in this area before deadlines, 1 July or 1 January? Then may I give you that question for your answer?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u137	It is very difficult for the cabinet to discuss the planning of the Second and First Chambers; you know that. We adapt to that. The cabinet is doing its best in legislative processes. Sometimes something happens in the short term. For example, there was a request for a trust office emergency law. We have promised it to the House of Representatives, but it is still under discussion. It takes its time. The Council of State is also involved. There are all kinds of elements of care. That means that sometimes it doesn't go within the forms of ideal planning.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u138	Finally, Mr. Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u139	As I said, I found it commendable that the cabinet announced that, at the request of my colleague Mr Backer of D66 and myself last year, it is going to see if major tax changes and major expenditure changes can be announced earlier in the spring, so that the Second and First Chamber can prepare themselves properly. But does the Minister understand that it is very difficult for the First Chamber, which has a legislative mandate, to send it to us by post? I'll ask the cabinet. I ask you whether you want to promote this in the House of Representatives, and the President of the First Chamber can of course play a role in this too, so I speak to him a little bit that will change that, because we cannot do our job like this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u140	Finally, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u141	I take note of your request, but I am not taking on a coordinating role in this, I would like to add to it the President.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u142	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u143	As long as the Cabinet does it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u144	No, you don't get to speak anymore. I think Mr Van Rij will come back to some of the remaining questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u145	Mr Van Schaik asked me whether the 2023 budget would begin with a solid recovery in public finances. I share Mr Van Schaik's appreciation... "Schalk," I hear, "Excuse me." It happens to me more often, again, excuse me. At the end of my political career I have it right, Mr. Schalk. You never know how long that'll take. The sustainability of public finances is an important condition. The cabinet has set clear budgetary frameworks. Those were established by the Spring Note. I am committed, with all the cabinet members, to keeping to that. We are making substantial investments for the important social problems that are common and that do not go away, crisis or no crisis, and we are temporarily accepting a higher debt. This was discussed in detail with the Prime Minister during the General Political Reviews. The coalition agreement clearly agreed to bring debt relief on a downward path. There is no point in us taking up farming in Europe and reminding all kinds of countries that we are talking about debt disposal and debt sustainability, if we do not set an example of this ourselves. We are doing this, among other things, by reducing the increase in healthcare costs. The size of the investment package makes it all the more important that we maintain the financial commitments made. We really want to maintain and maintain this, including for the 2023 budget. Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Van Gennip.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u146	I think I will, Minister. Thank you for your speech. I would now like to give the floor to the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u147	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We share and understand your concerns. That has just been made very clear by my colleague in the Finance Committee. We have unprecedentedly high inflation, particularly due to high energy prices. They hit a very large group of households. As a result, people wonder at the end of the month if they can still pay their bills, if they can still make ends meet and if they need to take on their savings. That's downright worrying. We have really been benevolent and careful to see what can be done this year. You were able to read all this in the letter to the House of Representatives to which you referred. Of course, we have already done a number of things with the 6.5 billion. However, in this stress test we see the impact on different households. I'll get to that in a minute. We are also pleased that the municipalities are now seeing opportunities to raise the energy surcharge again. Mr Schouten will go into that in a moment so that the most vulnerabilities on top of that €800 will receive another €500. Of course, the Prime Minister promised this last year to the House of Representatives in the debate on the Spring note. When we look at January 1, 2023, we see that there can of course be much more. Then there are all kinds of measures that we can use structurally and where we can really see what the income positions of the different groups of households are. Of course, vulnerable households are important. Some of you pointed out. They received an amount of €500 on top of that €800. It is mainly about the lower middle incomes just above that. I call that from half-mode to one-and-a-half modes. That's a very large group. These are those who are not eligible for the energy surcharge and who are no longer eligible for the ordinary surcharges at any given time. We need to make sure that work pays, but we also need to look closely at what is going on with these different groups. That is exactly what we are preparing for the August decision-making. I will go into the various groups in a moment. What we have on the table in this August decision is the minimum wage, the reduction of rents, measures in taxation and surcharges, the reduction of the burden on middle incomes and the reduction of marginal pressure, so that work pays off. Mr Kaag has already mentioned this. It's all things that are on the table in August, to see what we can, want and need to do. In doing so, we must realise that you know very well that we are in an unprecedentedly complicated situation, which is also rapidly changing. We do not know what will happen tomorrow in Ukraine and what the impact will be in four weeks, let alone four months. We do not know what will happen to energy prices on that international energy trade market. That means we have to steer the bend much shorter than we normally do. That's what we're doing right now. In doing so, we are looking very closely at the purchasing power trend of these different groups and what the CPB has said. The CPB has said: look at the vulnerable groups, look at the group up there, but make sure that you look structuralally. This large group of households needs to become more shock-resistant by looking at their whole position in a structural way. Of course, this has to do with taxation, income and what is earned. I'm just getting ahead of myself. Yes, Mr. Crone, we're talking to the social partners. We call them regularly, again tonight, to raise wages where possible. That's what's happening. 3.6% are the latest collective bargaining increases. We also know that it is not in those purchasing power cards that a lot of people also get occasional or individual increases. That is, of course, two different things. There are really a number of entrepreneurs and large companies working on it. And the government has also assumed its responsibility as an employer. That all runs, but there are still a number of places where more really needs to be done. If you are talking about the division of responsibilities, then there is a step that employers must take and a step that the government must take. We have already done so and are still preparing for August. There is also a step that workers must take. I am thinking of retraining, retraining and retraining. If you live off a benefit now, you might be able to get started in a conversation with employers. There are therefore all kinds of responsibilities for the workers as well. The three of us, as a society, as a society, really have a responsibility to get through this together and to tell each other what kind of society we ultimately want to be. That really is a broad social task ahead of us and goes a little further than what we have to solve today alone. That was my broader introduction. Let me now turn to the individual issues.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u148	Mr Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u149	Thank you, Mr President, for saying the name correctly. The Minister indicated that something is expected of all partners. I totally agree with that. There was also some speculation about a wagewave that might be there. There will certainly be, given inflation and so on. But now to the very specific problem of those lowest incomes. If you have €1,756 as a minimum income, you now occasionally have €1,300 in the cut. If you have €1,757, you have zero in the cut. Is there really nothing you can do about that? Can't that somehow be made into a slightly more gliding scale?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u150	That is a very relevant question from Mr Schalk. Here's what's going on. If the municipality is to be able to carry out this properly, Mr Schouten will have to deal with it immediately, so that it always has to draw a line, whether it is 110%, 120%, 130%, 100% or 140%. There will always be a stop-off, a stop-off, a stop-off. The scheme was set up and there is now €500 on top. So that cliff gets even bigger. It's a relevant point that this means that that group looks above it at that group below 120%. If these people get into extra trouble, there is of course still the special assistance of the municipalities. My colleague, Mr Schouten, will undoubtedly go into that. It is not only important what we are doing for this year, incidentally, also very important, of course. We also need to look structuralally at the kind of wage building we would like in the Netherlands. What do we think the minimum wage should be? What do we think should be done about taxation? What do we think that lower middle incomes and middle incomes should be earned? Those questions are now also on the table, of course. That's what we're looking at right now. We are also going to look at the purchasing power cards, but no one lives in a purchasing power picture, of course. So I always find that a little tricky, but when we look at the official purchasing power plates, we have to look at what happens with the different groups.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u151	That's crystal clear. I thank the Minister for this answer. In other examples, we try to keep people out of poverty trap. Then there's always some kind of catch behind it that prevents you from having that huge hard crash at that one moment. That's actually what I miss about this story. Don't we get the chance that people will say to their employer at some point: boy, do me 20 or 120 less, because I'll tap in 1,300 euros?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u152	Of course, that's good. By the way, the vast majority of workers are well above 120% of the social minimum. Of course, there are still people who really only deserve the wml and have to take care of an entire family. Those situations are there, but the vast majority of people are actually a lot up there. That does not detract from the fact that I share with you the concerns about half-modeal to one and a half modes, especially if you look at them structurally. That is what we stand for in August.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u153	Finally, Mr. Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u154	I wasn't even talking about one and a half modes. I was talking about 120%...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u155	Yeah, that's half-modal, pretty much.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u156	... tomodal. How can we prevent these people from getting more complicated because they just can't participate in that range? That's a bit of a pressing question, isn't it? Perhaps the Minister for APP, Mrs Schouten, I have just understood, could tell a little bit more. But the question remains: how do we manage to get these people to feel like they're getting a stunt under the wallet?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u157	Finally, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u158	The Minister for APP will certainly address this and also what we do in talks with energy companies. These include payment arrangements and special assistance. In addition, it is of course important what you do with the minimum wage, which plays a very important role there, and what the employers do with wage increases. In the longer term, we are talking about labour market reforms, addressing those zero-hour contracts and revolving door structures of temporary agency agencies. It's still a few years before we get there. I realize that too, but that's gonna help. If we look at it a little more structuralally, there is really something going on at the bottom of the labour market in the Netherlands. It's about what a minimum wage should be. That's about the fact that just gotta pay for work. That's also about contract forms. That's not just about income security. That's also about roster security. In the longer term, you want to achieve structurally better conditions at the basis of the labour market. That's the long-term commitment. I didn't arrange that tomorrow, but that's the long-term commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u159	As the economist Keynes said, in the long run we're all dead. You have to pay the bills in the short term. So we need to take action now, in the short term. It makes me a little despondent when I hear the response of the rulers, because I get the strong impression that they themselves do not even realize how far they are going behind the moving target. If the euro goes down now, it doesn't just happen. Then it's because of interest rate parity. If the interest rates in America are higher than in the euro area, if they stay too low because of southern Europe, then that currency goes down. You don't have to be a rocket scientist for that. Any novice economist can explain that to you. That that has consequences for the energy bill, too. That's gonna be a lot more expensive, 'cause you're gonna have to pay it in dollars. That's happening right now. We were talking about the minimums first. In the meantime, the discussion is about modal, but this progresses very quickly. We're gonna be talking about morale and higher.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u160	So your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u161	You say, "Go to the city and make arrangements." A lot of those people who are getting into trouble right now have never been to a community to settle anything. They're not used to that either. They may find that very annoying, and they are ashamed of it. So that's...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u162	Mr. Otten, what's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u163	...a very different group. So why not take generic measures instead of saying: go to the municipality to apply for a surcharge? 'Cause I don't think these groups are gonna do that at all. So they're gonna get in a lot more trouble. So why not generic measures?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u164	I believe that we have already taken a number of generic measures: a total of 6.5 billion. This concerns, for example, the reduction of excise duties and the reduction of energy taxes. That touches, helps, very large groups that are just above that social minimum. That's one. Two. A minimum wage increase is gonna help, a normal raise is gonna help. And of course we're looking at what we can do structurally, and then you're talking about what's going on in January. So it's not like we're putting this group completely aside. In fact, the opposite is more true, because we are looking very closely at it and we have already put in place a number of measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u165	But it's July 12th now. Tax measures usually take effect on 1 July or 1 January. The 1st of July deadline is missed, so now it's going to get worse again and then you're gonna keep chasing the facts. I don't think I'm getting it right about the stage, but that's what's going on here. The group that gets into trouble has ever higher incomes, as costs are also rising more and more rapidly. So why do you keep shooting behind the hares instead of before? If you want to hit the hares, you have to shoot before it, not behind it. If you want to turn an oil tanker, you have to go 20 kilometers before Hoek van Holland turns, otherwise you won't make it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u166	Your question is clear, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u167	So why not a more proactive policy?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u168	For the hares, behind the hares. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u169	I don't share that image. The previous cabinet has already deployed a wide package. This cabinet has deployed a broad spring package. We are now preparing for the August decision-making process. Those are major interventions every quarter. I don't think we've seen it so many times before in history that we do major interventions almost every quarter. We're working on that. But it shows that we are in that complex situation, that we are in a very challenging situation, which is also not predictable every day. It also shows that we all have to work on that. Mr. Chairman. Then to the individual questions. Mr Van Gurp reflected whether or not our supplementary budget adequately reflects the needs of society. There are, of course, a number of things that I hope they will. That includes debt relief, and that includes the Roemer plan, which is extremely important for us to get it together, because we were just talking about the basis of the labour market. The way we deal with migrant workers in the Netherlands is, of course, unacceptable. So that's what we need to do. It also includes parental leave. There are a number of things in there that really match that. In addition to our budget, in a number of other budgets too, all the measures we have already taken simply come back. This is about the energy surcharge, and this is about taxation, which the various colleagues will come back to. That is, of course, reflected in all kinds of budgets. Those are the packages of measures we have already taken. That does not detract from the concerns we share with you and with a number of other speakers about how these households are doing. A number of references were made to the CPB stress test study. That was a stress test that we asked for as a cabinet, precisely because we said a few weeks ago because of this uncertainty of developments: we want to understand better what could happen in the different scenarios. Right now, we're not in that dark scenario. Of course, it's a bit difficult to estimate when we're in there, because you look back, but if you look at what's going on with the energy prices now, we're on our way there. It is only with energy prices that not everyone immediately suffers from this. There are more and more people who are affected by it. But you have to sign a new contract the moment your contract expires. So there are still households who are still on their old contract or simply have a well-insulated home or a solar cell home. As far as other prices are concerned, we are fortunately even further away from the dark scenario. But that doesn't mean it can't come. It is also important that what has now been written assumes that people do not adjust their spending. We can see that happening in reality, of course. This is without prejudice to the fact that there are real households in trouble, but it also means that precisely those households that have a buffer and are able to adjust their spending have more room to respond to the situation. We do see that a large group of households in the Netherlands are not very shockproof. That's what the CPB says. That is why, in the longer term and more structuralally, we need to look at what we want with these households and with that wage building, that income building, in the Netherlands. Then the wml. We have proposed in the Spring Paper that the WMM increase should be brought forward. We have already indicated to you that we are looking at another acceleration in August, precisely because it is so important. Eventually, your purchasing power goes up because you deserve more. As a government, we stand at the bar for both the wml and as an employer. Those really are the two tasks we have here. Employers are at the point of increasing wages in collective bargaining or on an individual or occasional basis. So that's what we're looking at again. It is no longer possible to increase it this year; I can tell you that. We should have done that a while ago. But that we increase it by 2.5% with the AMvB on 1 January is already in the Spring Note. Mr Crone...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u170	It's coming up now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u171	This was not entrapment, but in the annex which was also discussed in the Chamber, I saw that if the minimum wage goes up from 1 January to 1 January than your cabinet plans, you will have to decide in August. So suppose you want to bring forward what would happen otherwise in 2024/2025; then you have to decide in August. I'll keep my own deal. I just want to talk about things that the Millions Note would be late for. Are you prepared to start that minimum wage increase? You'll get support afterwards.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u172	The Spring note brings forward the 2.5% increase in the minimum wage to 1 January. If we want something else, we will have to decide in August. You don't have to do that today.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u173	That is why I would very much appreciate a political commitment now. Indeed, you are now going to do 2.5% of the total 7.5% of the coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u174	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u175	So you still have 5% more to go. We can't do that until January 1st at the earliest. Why not? It is only about bringing it forward, so the coverage is also simple, because structuralally it is already covered. I say that to Mrs Kaag through the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u176	We are going to look at the integral picture in August. This certainly plays a role in this. Taxation also plays a role in this. Several windfalls and setbacks play a role in this. So this is all going to be on the table in August. I think you have heard very well from me how important that is in our purchasing power debate. Mr Crone also asked about the increase in family allowances. I think we have two discussions on that point. The first is about how politically desirable and targeted it is. I have to tell you, it's pretty unfocused. I'd be very happy to. I have a big family. It would be lovely. But I'm not one of the target groups. When I look at the figures, I see that 44% of the people receiving child benefit earn more than 1.6 times the average. Why is that such a clumsy number? That's because it was put in tranches of the wml. It is therefore 280% to 430% of the wml. These are too many figures, but 44% of child benefit goes to people who earn more than 1.64 times the average. 21% goes to the people who earn less than morale. The rest is in between. So this is really a measure that comes mainly to those high incomes; not primarily, but to a very large extent. If you're saying that costs a lot of money, I'm thinking, should we put that on those high incomes? That seems less attractive to me. In any case, I would say politically: is that the best measure? I don't think so. In addition, for feasibility: the entitlement to family allowances is always determined ex post and then paid on 1 October for the last quarter. It is already set for the October payout. That's in a system and there's an execution key. That's the first thing. The second is that the increase then has a structural character, because the law does not provide a basis for doing an increase for one or two quarters per AMvB and then ending again. Then you're stuck with it. You can, but then you have really expensive measures for a lot of quarters. I suspected Mr Crone would have questions about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u177	I felt that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u178	No measure is 100% targeted. Here's part of the fall to higher incomes, but we all know that children can't be paid anymore. That's the problem. I wish there were more people with a lower income, morale and below that, kids. A lot of people can't afford that. It's not all one-on-one. I understand that, too, but because of the policy we have, I am holding on to this, also because I would like to see how many of those 44% with 1.6 modal one, two, three or more children have children. Because we also know that having more children costs more. The relatively lower incomes therefore have fewer children. Two: it remains the only instrument that is fast and liquid at all. The CPB says that structural measures are the best, but it has not said when they will come into effect and so on. I said before that people never go bankrupt because they don't have assets, but because they don't have liquidity and they can't pay off. Finally, on the question of feasibility: we have done so many laws very quickly here. We even made the 2 billion VAT reduction last week in the case of hammerstrokes. How long has this proposal been here? A few days. And that applies to many more proposals. Where there's a will, there's a law. I understand from your official staff that you can do it purely with an AMvB. With an AMvB, we can reduce burdens with retroactive effect or grant subsidies. We cannot raise taxes retroactively with an AMvB or even a law. That is also an obvious point. The Council of State also pointed this out recently in connection with the VAT affair. So here is the question of feasibility: where there is a will, there is a way. That's never black and white; so do I. I therefore believe that the cabinet should really go to extremes - I asked only yesterday to find out what could be done. If you say that the fallout to higher incomes is too high, it would even help if we only did it with the first child. But we're not gonna millimeter right now, because I can't see that either. Is the Cabinet prepared to carry out a serious investigation into these modalities by August at the latest, so before the Millions Note arrives here, but from the will to settle this rather than thinking that there are objections? Because we know there are objections. So this is just an urgent request. Don't say in September or October: if only we had done it. Because then there's the liquidity crisis. I think that request is widely accepted in this Chamber. So concretely: an investigation before September 1st. Then perhaps we can vote in favour of the supplementary budget on 5 September. But we'll see about that later.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u179	Of course, the investigation can always be done, but I'd like to give you a few warnings. You ask, "Maybe just do the first child." That seems to me to be quite a challenge in terms of implementation. I can't look through the wall to see how people are behind this, but I think they're really thinking, if we wanted to, how are we going to do that? It seems to me to be a wonderful conceptual idea, but I do not know how feasible this is. It is also a question of its desirability. What is ultimately desirable is, of course, a political decision. I have a problem with that. It's a very expensive measure. It's gonna cost you a billion dollars. I'm guessing; I'm looking to the left. 900 million, I hear. Of these, 44% are made up of people who earn almost twice as much and more. I can hardly get it over my heart.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u180	Well, let's re-examine the discussion on diesel taxes and the other excise duties, and the general VAT reduction. I got all those, too. I also get a discount on my excise duty, on my VAT, you name it. That's what we have here in a curse and a sigh... we weren't even allowed to curse and sigh, because we had to do that hammer piece. This was also possible very quickly with a policy decision of the Secretary of State. No legislation: it was already notified. By the way, we do that every year in December. Then the Minister, the Secretary of State, takes a lot of policy decisions that we as the First Chamber can no longer do, at most say no. So that's not a new method. Your note says the SVB can do it in a month and a half. I've given them two and a half months now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u181	No, the execution...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u182	All they have to do is change the rate. The target group doesn't change. The kids are already known. It's all been written out. But change the number, or a comma: that's got to be possible, right? That's execution technique. I would urge you to report this before 1 September, otherwise there will never be anything in this country. And how fast is it gonna go? I'm not gonna mention the whole row, hear.. with the recovery of the capital tax and know-I-all-not-what? Then this has to be possible, right? The Secretary of State for Taxation has always said: system changes are difficult, up to and including fruit and vegetables. I understand. But VAT can always change, because that is a number in the current system.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u183	The search can certainly, with all the profit warnings I have given and with the policy consideration. That will have to be weighed up in August, compared to the other measures we have on the table. The question is whether this is what you want to put your spending on in the end. This is without prejudice to the fact that I naturally welcome your efforts to do more for children. You understand that, too. That is the future of our society. We need more greening, so I understand what you're trying to do. But both in terms of feasibility and policy, I think we are going to have a hard time getting out of this. We can definitely figure out what we can do. But 44%, almost twice the mode, is a separate one.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u184	I have a very short question. I understood from the Minister that, should this be decided, she would be stuck with 18 months, so six deadlines. Six installments...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u185	It's worth a billion dollars.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u186	Yeah, six installments times a billion. Mr Crone asked if you could do 20% at a time with that first billion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u187	It is now becoming more and more complicated in terms of implementation. Let's take one step back. In the six months I have been sitting here, I have learned that the implementation is the place where the citizen meets the government and where a lot of things sometimes go wrong or sometimes go very well. We've had your former colleague, my former colleague, Pechtold. He told how, as director of an execution organisation, he now runs into all kinds of wishes, all kinds of things that have been put into law with all good intentions to make exceptions for certain groups, but which are ultimately very difficult to implement. So the more complicated you make it, the harder it gets. That's one. Two. I'm from the big families, too. I welcome that, too. But the question of whether we want to invest 1 billion extra a quarter on this, and then for six quarters, if we can't get rid of it, is really a big question. We're not gonna give away a billion dollars here tonight. We just don't, because otherwise I'm fighting with my left neighbor, and rightly so. Let's get back to what this is all about. It's about the vulnerable groups. It's about that half-modal to a mode, or up to one and a half modes, the group that's above it. And it's about structurally doing something, as the CPB also said, to strengthen that shock resistance of households. Then I'll go on, Mr. Chairman. Mr Crone asked about the social agreement. I think I just said something about that. We're always talking. We are not necessarily discussing a social agreement with large capitals. That is really something else, but we are always talking about the economic situation, about what is going on in the world, about the impact of what is happening in Ukraine. That's the way it should be. It's also part of the Netherlands to be talking a lot about that sort of thing. We are not alone with the social partners, by the way. That's what my colleague Schouten does with the VNG. That's what my colleague Adriaansens does with all kinds of entrepreneurs. I think that's what decorates the Netherlands. And with that we also show that we feel that shared responsibility. Mr Kox outlined a four-point plan. On the one hand, we are talking about raising income and, on the other hand, we are talking about reducing costs, such as the rent measure. I think you have a sensible mindset to solve these financial problems. That is why we have some of these issues in the coalition agreement. You say do them today instead of next year or the year after that. We have indicated in that letter why all these things can no longer be done this year. But I do say to you that it is also stated in that letter, which is all things that we are going to look seriously at in August. Then it's about: what do we want with the wml next year or the years after? Then it's about the rent cut that's now planned for 2024. Moving forward to this year is not possible, but one of the things that are on the table in August... I'm not saying we're all going to do this, but I'll tell you what's on the table so you can think along a bit. It could go in a little earlier, in 2023. At the energy surcharge, the UNG has stepped forward, to do something this year. I am sure Mr Schouten will take this up in a moment. So we are very supportive of the direction of thinking, but it is simply no longer possible this year. It is the ingredients that are on the table in August. In general, several of you have mentioned different groups that need to be looked at in the August decision-making process. We will. My two colleagues will discuss the seniors. I'd rather talk about "seniors" than "elders." As you may know from your colleagues from the House of Representatives, I have often had the opportunity to debate what senior citizens still contribute to this society. That's really about the experience, the added value that people bring. Perhaps they will stay at work longer, but otherwise they will stay in care or volunteering. I really think it adds value to society if you have a colleague, a neighbour or a family member who has already experienced it once, who has experienced things in the 1970s or who may have experienced the financial crisis quite differently. That's just a general comment about seniors.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u188	You also want to answer Mr Van Rooijen's questions?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u189	No, no, the tax questions and the pension questions are answered by my colleague.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u190	They're coming.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u191	I just wanted to say in general that senior citizens are important to society. Mr Otten mentioned, among other things, the middle groups. Work must be waged, including for the middle groups. Mr Schalk mentioned the families. Those are all groups, which I would like to say in general - which we will of course be paying attention to in August. Then we're gonna look at the purchasing power plates. I told you before that you have to be careful with such a purchasing power picture, because if you change jobs or lose your job, or think of a divorce, a death, and you name it: that all has a lot of impact, much more than that 1.5% shift. When we want a stable society, people must have equal opportunities. Now you see, not so much in these groups, that there is a dividing line, not so much of the have-nots and have-nots, but of the cans and the cans. This concerns, among other things, contract forms, training courses, sometimes also a surname of someone who is going to do an internship. If we know how to break those lines, which is also about finding jobs and being able to pay your bills and having a perspective in those jobs so that you can go to another job and get on with it, we will also have a more stable society with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u192	I am very pleased that the Minister said that she prefers not to use the word "elder" but "seniors." I'd like to take that with me. I was particularly pleased because I think the Minister also indicated that she not only sees the importance of elderly people doing volunteering and care in society. We share that, of course. If that didn't happen for a week, the Netherlands would be down, I've said it before. My question is how the Minister looks at opportunities in the labour market, given the great shortage of hands, of labour; demand is much greater than supply. What can the elderly contribute to this? I think it would be a good idea to look at this again and perhaps look at how we can promote it with information to employers; either hire them or keep them in service for longer. I don't want to talk about myself. I'm 80 years old, but age doesn't mean anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u193	Yes. Several actions have already been launched, including through a plan called Closer than you think. This is about how we can bring people, employers and job seekers closer together. We have a number of information campaigns on senior citizens. I have also promised your colleague Den Haan from the Dutch Lower House that we will indeed give more information through the trade associations and the employers. In the second half of this year there will be a senior opportunity vision of my hand, in which all these things will be dealt with. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u194	Thank you, Minister. I shall then give the floor to the Minister for Poverty Policy, Participation and Pensions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u195	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A number of remaining questions have been asked to me, concerning the energy surcharge and everything related to AOW, pensions and IOAW. In that order, I'm going to answer them. Firstly, Mr Van Gurp's questions. My colleague Van Gennip has already briefly commented on this: why did it take so long before the €500 was finished? This has really to do with the discussion we had with municipalities about how difficult it was for them to be able to carry out all the tasks that are coming to them at the moment. They are dealing with living money for the Ukrainians, with the energy surcharge they already had and with the wider problems that always get to them. That's not easy for them. They said at the time: we would like a rich regime to be established, because this will enable us to carry out the tasks we already have. The government has looked at the state schemes, from the genuine point of view: we do not want to burden the municipalities, which are already struggling, with additional tasks. From that motivation we have said: we really do not want to do that to them. When we found that there was no room for a system at a national level, they said: we would like to get in again and still pay the €500 to the same target group that we had already identified for the €800. I am very grateful to them for that. So that was real after the cabinet had finally concluded that for all the reasons already mentioned, a state regime was not possible. Then there is Mr Kox's question: can this energy surcharge also go to 130% of the social minimum and can municipalities get a budget for it? I would also like to thank you for adopting the bill today in this Chamber, which has been approved. There is no income limit in the legislative proposal itself. Municipalities are given a power to grant an energy surcharge to low-income households. The municipality itself determines what is to be understood as a "low income." We have done so in order to be able to align as much as possible with the poverty policies of the municipalities themselves, because it is sometimes different what percentages are used there. It is true that we have made the resources available to the group which has been calculated up to 120% of the statutory social minimum, so to speak. With the money available for this €500, we will spend a total of €1.4 billion to the municipalities. A part has already been paid out and the remaining part will be transferred to the municipalities via the Minister of BZK, via circular. Then there is Mr Schalk's question: when can people have the energy surcharge on the account and are there any municipalities that can help us find what he calls the troubles? Most municipalities have already paid the households they have in their stock €800. All municipalities are busy dealing with applications from the "other households," to mention them. The group they now have in mind is going to receive a benefit or they have reported themselves to receive another €500, because we know the names and addresses of this. The municipalities really have the ambition to pay it all out this year. However, since they have said that it may not be possible at all, we have increased the date of payment by six months by letter of amendment, so that the axe does not fall on 31 December and we can reach as many people as possible who are eligible for this allowance.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u196	Thank you, Minister, for your response to my proposal. I was aware that the government says: you can choose for yourself, but we are going to reimburse it up to 120% of the social minimum. My question is, what if it's 130%? There are a number of municipalities, including larger ones, that do so. That is in line with their policy. So if municipalities say "this is our policy, this is what we can do," what opposes saying "okay, then it could be 130%," based on what the finance minister said earlier, namely "money is not the problem"? This is linked to the question that I had also put on the table. Students are excluded from this scheme for strange reasons. The only difference is that a student is still studying, but otherwise he or she lives in a house. At the moment when we could also give this energy premium to students and money is not the problem, I think that this is an enforceable measure. This debate is mainly about: what else can be done? The Minister of Finance has said that we have looked at everything. I would like to put on the table two simple proposals which might still be feasible if this House were to reconsider them.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u197	I wanted to come back to the students later, but you are asking the question now, so I will answer him right away. For the record, most municipalities have a minimum policy, as we call it, of 120% of the statutory social minimum. That is also why we have joined, because that is actually the great common denominator. A number of municipalities are 125%, Utrecht for example, or 130%. Or municipalities choose to expand the target group themselves. We think it is fair to give the same amount to each municipality, in proportion to the estimated number of inhabitants who are at that minimum social level. Otherwise, we're going to give one municipality more than the other, because they just happened to have established another poverty policy. The cabinet didn't choose that. We believe that municipalities should all receive the same amount again, in proportion to the number of inhabitants covered. Then the group of students. We've had a lot of discussions about that, including in the House of Representatives. The group of students is very diverse. About half of the students live at home. Suppose you say "the students get the right to an energy allowance." I can hear Mr Kox saying 'detached', but we ourselves cannot make the distinction between a resident and an outgoing student. DUO does not have that administration now, because it is no longer paid for. That is probably going to happen again when the stock exchange is introduced, but at the moment we do not have that distinction. In addition, you can see that it is still quite different, even with residents, what the rental situation is. There are students who have an inclusive lease, so a rental contract including energy costs, but there are also students who have to pay separately for that. It is precisely because there are so many differences in the situation that we have said that the instrument of individual special assistance would be better suited. That's what's happening now. Students can go there now. In this way, the students who are really in trouble can be paid a benefit, so that they can meet the most needy, I would almost say.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u198	It's an explanation, I'll say, but it could be stronger. The Minister noted that most municipalities handle 120%, so we do. The question is: if there are municipalities that handle 130% of the population, and the Minister knows that there are, why do we not compensate? You can say "we want to treat everyone equally," but that's not really true for that whole 6 billion package. That applies to a lot of proposals. As for the out-of-town students, it would have been nicer if we had all finished that. But if you can go to town hall and say "this is my passport, this is my address, that's where I live," why can't you qualify? Again, it is about what could be, and not about what might be possible for objections. I would therefore ask the Minister to give some thought to whether it is not possible to do so. If the outcome of this debate is not possible, then we have to do with it, but I think these are viable measures. As I said, the municipalities are already implementing it. All you have to do is say: if you do so, it is your poverty policy that we allow. The minister talked about out-of-town students. There are really other ways than just DUO to find out if someone is actually living out of it. That's not very complicated.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u199	On the first point, about the amounts: Mr Kox is actually talking about it. He says: if a municipality has a higher minimum policy, then the Empire must also pay more. I do not think that this is entirely fair, because then the minimum policy that the municipality itself carries out for the remuneration it receives. We want it to be the same for all the municipalities. That is also the quickest to realize, through the money you transfer, but well, it is independent of that problem. Then you really get a distinction between municipalities. There are also those who take the view that this is only a matter of 110%. Should we give it less? No. Mr Kox doesn't think it's a good idea either. So that's the other side. 120% is really the average of most municipalities. Fortunately, there are also municipalities that supplement the rest themselves from their own minimum policies. Then the point of the students. I understand Mr. Kox's quest. Of course, we have also thought about how to deal with this group. We have said the following about the students, in consultation with the municipalities themselves, to ensure that they are able to approach the large groups of the minimums as closely as possible. If you add the students categorically, that is actually what Mr Kox first asked, then it also ends up in many places where it is not necessarily necessary. On the other hand, the path of individual special assistance is really open to students. For example, we have discussed it with the municipalities, who also said: it must remain feasible for us, otherwise it will affect other groups of minima; we will not be able to achieve them properly because we are dealing with so many people to whom we have to pay out.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u200	One last try. Of course, the Minister is absolutely right: then there will also be money for students who do not need it. But I dare to say that of all the measures taken by the Cabinet, something is going to end up with people who do not need it. We know about the number of students living out of the group and the circumstances in which they live. We also know that most of them face high energy costs. The better can be the enemy of good.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u201	I certainly didn't want to dispute that right either. I was just trying to explain what considerations the cabinet has made and what elements have been relevant to it, which we have involved. It is indeed a weighting for the students; that is correct. That is a substantive weighting, but it is actually a technical implementation. We have often talked about this with the municipalities, especially with the municipalities that have students. They very much want to be able to implement this arrangement, just for the minimums, and said: when that group grows big and when we have to check all kinds of things, for example whether they are living or living at home, it means that the execution is such that it really gets complicated. Hence the route of individual special assistance. I keep emphasising that. But you have every right... you don't, Mr. Chairman. Yes, you too, Mr President, but I mean Mr Kox has every right to make proposals here to see what else is possible. I give our reflection on that. Let's see. That was Mr Kox's question. I also referred to Mr Koffeman's question, which also asked about the students on this point. Then there was a question from Mr Crone. He asked: will there be another window for people with liquidity problems? You're on the wrong side, Mr. Crone, but I'm glad you're spreading your wings wide; let's leave it there. In general, I recognize a great deal in Mr Crone's speech, including the liquidity problems of households. We also see that group getting bigger. It's on multiple levels, I think. As has been said, for those who get into trouble very directly, there is the way to individual special assistance, but I think the question here is wider: what do you do if the energy bill is really not affordable anymore and there is a high bill at the end of the year? I am currently having this conversation with Mr Jetten and also with energy suppliers. We are looking at how we can make sure that we can meet people who are in trouble. This can be done, for example, by means of payment schemes or by means of debt relief. We are also trying to put all kinds of unorthodox measures on the table. Eventually we have to weigh things up after that, but we see the problem that it may increase by the end of the year. That process is still under way, so I will, of course, inform you as soon as we have more insight into it. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the questions about the IO-AOW. A number of your Members, including Mr Crone and Mr Van Rooijen, have asked questions about this. I have noted that... Mr Van Rooijen is already coming forward before I have given the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u202	Yeah, but that's out of enthusiasm.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u203	Oh, okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u204	Why don't we give the minister a chance to answer? Oh, it's about the last one. It was too fast. It's not about the IO-AOW yet, but it's about the previous one.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u205	Yes, the minister spoke of the students. May I ask the Minister if I could just use the word of Minister Van Gennip of Social Affairs, the senior citizens? By that, I mean the AOWs who also get the energy compensation. At first, the scheme was "I know that your colleague's File Letter "only for AOW'ers: if you had €10 pension, you didn't get that €200, now €800. How's that now? Where's the border for the AOWs? They'll have to report to the municipality themselves. I know a lot of people don't know that. And if they do, they dare not go, because they are ashamed and see it as some kind of begging at the church. You have to fill out everything and you name it. What exactly is the arrangement? That is not entirely clear to our group. You can do it later by letter, but I'm sure you know.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u206	I love letters, but I think I have an answer. Last year I requested the motion on the €200 in the Tax Plan. Afterwards, of course, the cabinet took more generic measures, not only with regard to the energy surcharge, which now also applies to people with an AOW benefit. They're about on that line to qualify for it. But of course we have done more, also around the energy bill, VAT, energy tax, which caters to AOW'ers. Mr Van Rooijen is right that it is really a threshold for some people to apply for the energy surcharge. We know it's not always easy for elderly people, seniors. That is why we have asked municipalities to do the same even if they want to connect to the places where these people come. That could be in community centers, that could be in seniors' societies, all of those places, so they could get into the conversation to help people apply. It's also something that might help at this time. So we don't wait for people to come to the congregations. On the contrary, the municipalities go very actively through all kinds of channels, for example, elderly organisations are also very active in approaching people themselves with the message that they may be entitled to the supplement.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u207	Thank you for your answer. The more information, the better. But what exactly is the arrangement for AOW'ers? How much pension can they get? I read somewhere that it would be €25 a month, and for a married man then twice two, so €50. Is that right? I get a lot of questions about that and I don't know.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u208	It is up to 120% of the legal social minimum. I'm gonna have to figure out how much that is and how high your supplementary pension may be. I know it's really a small supplementary pension. Can I give the exact amount for that in the second term?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u209	People ask me how much they can have next to the AOW. They hear that you can only actually go to the town hall when you have AOW. That's very unclear. So I think it's good to know.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u210	The minister's gonna come back to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u211	In the second term, I hope to be able to give you the exact amount. Then I'll come back to the ruling on the IO-AOW. This Chamber today adopted a motion asking, among other things, not to use the IO-AOW as cover for the coupling of the AOW and to find cover elsewhere. That's a rather unfocused question towards the cabinet. For the record, we are talking about 1.1 billion to be asked for elsewhere. That's not a small amount, I'll say. We have taken note of that motion. Generally speaking, we are looking at the purchasing power of all groups in the August decision-making process. Then we will also look at the purchasing power of the elderly and then we will come back to how we deal with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u212	I understand that, but can you understand from our side and also from the senate's side the following? If you don't match the AOW first, the Senate says you need to be paired. So the AOW goes up by 7.5%. Then you say: yes, but that will cost money; then we will abolish the IO-AOW. As a result, about half of that increase is reversed. That 7.5% goes roughly to 3.75%. I indicated tonight that that is a few hundred euros for single people or people living together. Those are huge amounts of money. That's especially true for the bottom. People who first got that increase of, say, €800 have to return half of it. To people at the bottom with only AOW and a small pension, who thought to get €800, the cabinet says: we are not going to do that; we take half of everyone, including the people with only AOW and a small pension. We'll just take that back. Can you imagine that my group, but I also think the Senate now, thinks that you should seek a different cover for these measures that this Chamber does not want? You can predict what might happen in the autumn. Look for another coverage.... that is also the background of the motion... to all taxpayers, all income groups and also to companies.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u213	Your question is clear. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u214	I have just repeated how we intend to deal with this motion. When it comes to all income groups, as Mr Van Rooijen says, they are also the lowest incomes. Mr Van Rooijen says: you must also get money from it. This is also about people with an AOW benefit with, for example, a higher supplementary pension. Apart from the question of how we continue to deal with this, I think that is also a political statement. I hope there is a broad sense of this in this Chamber among the people who have supported this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u215	But you should not bring in the pension, which is average in the Netherlands, for example in health care, but is €8,000 gross. We shouldn't be telling Indian stories. By the way, I'm not saying you do. We are talking sec about the AOW and not about whether or not you have a pension. For most people, this is a very small pension. In construction and metal, the median pension is €4,000. You know that, too. This means that half of the people in construction and metal have a pension of less than €300 gross per month. So let's leave those pensions out of it, because people with AOW and a very small pension also need that IO-AOW.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u216	I hear all the numbers. I recognize that for some income groups they are not really spacious either. I only note that Mr Van Rooijen, too, is asking for a redistribution of the lowest incomes to, for example, those with a middle pension. Then my view is that this will be a common position in the Chamber. I think that's a political statement. But once again, we are going to look together at the August decision-making process to see how purchasing power develops, including for the elderly.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u217	Finally, Mr. Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u218	Then let's leave the pensions out of it. It's about the AOW. The AOW will go up by 7.5%, as the Chamber has said. You say yes, but that costs too much; we are going to halve that increase again. Then the Senate says, "Well, we don't want that." And then you say yes, but you have to take cover. No, you have to look for it, because you made a mistake. You first came up with the antisocial proposal not to link, which has been the case for 50 years since the Den Uyl cabinet. Then you say: we'll do it anyway, but by the back door, a cigar out of our own box, we'll take half again. This afternoon, the Chamber declared that it did not wish to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u219	Finally, the Minister. Then let's move on. There's gonna be a second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u220	I have taken note of that, indeed, and I have said what I said about it. Then Mr Van Rooijen asks if there are any ideas to tax the AOW. I don't know where he gets that, because there's no proposal here to tax the AOW. Mr Van Rooijen also asked whether it would be possible to increase pensions by 5% per AMvB. In principle, as a cabinet, we do not discuss the indexation of pension funds. That is what the pension funds themselves decide. We do, however, have a number of legislative instruments which provide the framework when this should take place. We have also done this from July, allowing pension funds to index pensions at a coverage rate of 105% or more. It was 110% at first. I am also pleased that the pension funds that can do so use that space to apply indexation wherever possible. I think that's a good development. It has been a long time since pensions have been indexed. So it's also important that that happens when it can.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u221	I'd like to interrupt the Minister. You've got another block to finish?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u222	Yeah, my last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u223	From Mr. Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u224	Mr Van Rooijen asks whether we want to investigate whether we can apply the catch-up index. Just for the record, the catch-up index has no legal basis. For the non-indexation has always taken place within the framework of the laws and regulations. So you're going to use ex-post indexation for which there was no legal basis at the time. Plus, and Mr Van Rooijen himself has shown this with amounts. It costs about 130 billion if you want to do old and young. So you're really gonna lay the bill on the young generations. One of the basic principles of our pension system is the balance between generations. It's gonna get in the way of that. Those were my answers, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u225	That puts you at the end of your input, Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u226	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u227	Mr Van Rooijen, a brief closing question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u228	I understand the Minister...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u229	You must press the button of the microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u230	Yes. My speech of a few minutes on the fiscalisation of the AOW, additional indexing on 1 January and catch-up indexing, will end with: fiscalisation of the AOW, there is no proposal for that, so what are we talking about? I have made a detailed argument, but perhaps the Secretary of State will go into it, because taxing the AOW is strictly... Yes, it's both of them, it's also your portfolio. The fiscalisation of the AOW. In the Treasury's official note, it said on the subject of "how do we cover the costs of the coupling?" Indeed, we are going to abolish the ILO, we are not going to increase the elderly discount anymore. And there was also an ominous phrase in it, namely that it could also be possible to pick up €4,000 at the top, at the first disc, which is separate for pensioners, up to €35,000, which means a decline in income of €800, i.e. 20% of €4,000. I find it rather easy from the Minister. I will also come back to the Secretary of State in the autumn. Don't you dare come up with a proposal for taxing the AOW. We already have the forest tax and we do not want a kayak pension tax, because taxing is an 18% tax on supplementary pensions, a 20% pension base. You can't take that off, I heard you say, "What are you talking about? There is no proposal." The intention is that you do not come forward with that proposal. The same goes for the clutch. I said in advance: do not come with the decoupling.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u231	I think your question is clear, Mr. Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u232	I thought, I'm standing here...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u233	No, no, you're right.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u234	I am talking about fiscalisation for three minutes, and the Minister simply says that the proposal is not on the agenda.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u235	Mr. Van Rooijen, your question is clear. Perhaps it's up to the Secretary of State, but first the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u236	Let me say first of all that I am going to record for my colleague, Mr Oomen-Ruijten, that I do not think it is as appropriate when there are names in all kinds of constructions, for example when you are talking about a 'cage load' or something like that. I don't think that's nice. It would, I think, also adorn the Chamber to just be reluctant about that. But that's my personal opinion, not my colleague's. I don't know, by the way, but I didn't ask. Second. If there are any questions, we should always be able to consider all options. That does not mean that all of these options lead to a choice. So Mr Van Rooijen is going to say: this is not allowed, that is not allowed. We always think about all the options and then we weigh politically what we want or do not want. That's how it works. I would always like to give this space to officials, because if we cut them down in advance in everything they can think of, then we are doing something wrong in our relations with our departments.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u237	I think you've both made your point. There will also be a second term for both the Chamber and the Minister. Do you have anything new, Mr. Van Rooijen?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u238	On the other hand, fiscalisation, I will, of course, come back later. About this indexing: the minister says "we are not about indexing." But of course the cabinet and this minister have struck an AMvB on 1 July, outside the standard rules that have indeed been in force for 15 years. The minister says: catching up on indexing cannot be done. But the cabinet specifically said, at the request of the Labour Party at the time in order to save the pension agreement, that we are going to intervene; we are going to change the rules and make sure that you get a little candy of the week. It was a kind of seduction manoeuvre: you will receive an extra 2% pension, but you will have to change to the new system next year. My question was whether you could create an additional AMvB to allow a little more indexation at 10% inflation on 1 January. That was my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u239	I think I've been quite factual in my answer. I said: we do not decide whether pensions are going up. We do, however, determine the legal framework within which that may take place. That is a fundamental difference. Because we are not going to give orders to pension funds to index or not to index the pension. That separation of powers, I would almost call it, I would certainly like to continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u240	But I also make the distinction between the percentage of indexing and the change of rules. I've been on this file for 15 years, so you don't have to explain that to me. You yourself have now changed the rules on pensions. I ask you whether you are prepared to do so, as I have already said, it does not have to be 5% to an additional index by making an additional rule, as you have done now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u241	We now see that there is currently indexation. I am very happy about that; let me be honest with you. Because even when the AMvB was made, beaten, that was not so obvious at all. At that time, we did not know how the level of policy coverage would develop. But we did say at the time: these are the frameworks within which we could do that, where it is still justified also by European regulations. They also see whether there is sufficient equity for the funds. So that space is there now and I'm glad it's being used by the funds, where they can.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u242	Thank you, Minister. I give the floor to the Secretary of State for Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u243	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will confine myself to the tax questions that still have to be answered. Let me start with Mr Van Rooijen's question: can the Secretary of State undertake to extend the one-off relief of the 2 billion? This concerns the reduction in VAT from 21% to 9% and the reduction in excise duty. One entered July 1st, the other April 1st. These measures have been taken as temporary measures to mitigate inflation. The CBS has calculated that it is 1%. When we finalise next year's budget, of course, we will also look at what we are going to do: do we stop or do we have to extend it or not? That is not a commitment here that it will be extended, but it will be included in the overall purchasing power story. Then there is another question from Mr Van Rooijen. That is the question about the refundable tax rebates. A motion for a resolution was passed last week in the House of Representatives. That's the Van Weyenberg/Segers motion. They've asked us to investigate. I shall read the text of the motion, at least, the operative part: asks the government to examine how a cash-inable tax rebate can be implemented and to inform the Court of Justice of this before the summer of 2023, and proceed to the order of the day. That motion has been passed and, of course, we are going to proceed with that motion. We'll get back to that investigation. Mr. Chairman. Then there is a question from Mr Crone. Mr Crone asked why, following the example of other European countries, the cabinet did not also introduce a tax on excessive profits from energy companies. We discussed this in the letter of 1 July to the House of Representatives. We have also given answers to the written questions that have been asked, in total, by three Members of Parliament. In the letter, signed by the Minister for Climate and Energy, the Secretary of State for Mines and the undersigned, we said the following. Firstly, we have a mining tax in the Netherlands. We are going to investigate whether or not this is a commitment, but we are going to seriously investigate whether or not you can make an additional mining tax. There are a lot of legal hooks and eyes on that. Here's what I'm pointing out. As Mr Crone also knows, this mining tax applies to oil and gas companies, both exploration and production. This mining tax, together with corporation tax and the State's share of this type of company, already accounts for around 70%. I also promised the House of Representatives that I would come up with an overview of what other countries are doing. That is what Mr Crone asked for. He pointed to a number of other EU Member States in terms of windfall profits or excessive charges. Here's what I'm pointing out. I was with the Belgian colleague earlier today. We came to the conclusion together that it is a very easy term, but then look at what it means. Spain announced today, among other things, a bank tax. We do. But Spain also announced a tax. That's not tax. It is actually a regulatory charge for energy companies. We don't know what it looks like yet. The same applies to a country like Italy. A country such as Hungary has imposed a levy on several sectors. In other words, I don't want to make it any harder than it is, but there are a lot of hooks and eyes on it. Do you want to do it in corporate tax, then it gets complicated anyway, because what is an excessive profit? Moreover, excessive profits are simply taxed, because they are in the corporate tax base. So what's the measure? If you do it for certain sectors, you often run into State aid rules. In other words, we are going to inform the Chambers of Parliament about this very well and intelligibly. But I'm also trying to manage the expectations at this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u244	It worked. The expectations are tempered again. But I have read the letter; do not worry. That is why I had also said that I am constantly seeing an increase in European coordination. I had not mentioned the banking tax in Spain, but I had seen it. I always take you seriously. You have conversations with colleagues. It is easier to avoid both the definitions and the competition to the lowest point if you do it together. Then I think even England might join again to introduce it with you. I always take you seriously that you do your best to do so. But I would like to connect it with Mrs Kaag's comment at the beginning. Combine the distribution of assets and profit taxes. Then I guess there's something to get. Every bit helps, especially when we remember the main subject, namely the purchasing power of these families.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u245	As promised, we'll get it all together, we'll take stock of it and we'll get back to it. I am not making a commitment on behalf of the cabinet that we are going to introduce it, but we are taking it very seriously. The best thing would be if we agreed on this in the EU. I couldn't agree more. But just when I see that whole range of palette at the moment of the EU countries that have either introduced or are considering introducing such a levy, I have a bit of a hard head in it that will succeed at EU level. What the British are doing is actually closest to what we have, namely the mining tax. They have introduced an additional mining tax, but you don't have to pay it again when you make big investments, because then you have another deduction. But we'll also take them with us in the inventory. Mr. Chairman. Mr Crone also had a question about the one-off payment of the €500 on top of the care allowance. I think Mr Van Rooijen was also talking about a health check. In any case, I very much appreciate Mr Van Gurp and Mr Kox also mentioned the fact that in this Chamber we are looking for whether nothing is possible in 2022 for the group that needs the most. Those are the people with the lowest incomes. We have now done the following in terms of purchasing power. These people naturally feel the increase in energy prices and inflation the hardest. By the way, that is wider than just the energy. That's what you feel when you just go to the grocery store and do groceries. That is why, as a cabinet, we have really been very serious about this, and that is something I have learned in this Chamber. So we have all these 33 measures in those tables 1, 2, 3 and 4. Table 1 is the taxation; 2 is the surcharges; 3 rent; 4 is the students. Above all, I see it as a challenge or a shortcoming on our part that we have apparently not been able to explain it seriously so far. Let me just get the table, especially Table 2.2. This concerns the question of whether you can make a one-off payment of €500 to the healthcare supplement population. In this matrix we have always said: what is the measure and is it possible to introduce it in 2022? We have given an explanation of the measure and its scope. There is also a first test of feasibility, of budgetary importance and then of all other considerations. It's not the cabinet's unwillingness. We literally went to the hole to see if there was anything possible. We had already written to the House of Representatives in the letter of 29 March: you simply shouldn't do it via the health care allowance or the rent allowance, because then you will find yourself facing really great problems in terms of execution. We've been able to convince the House of Representatives of that. It sounds easy to do it halfway through the year, but you have a new date, you have people who are entitled, you have people who may need recovery and you have people who haven't got it; then I'm not talking about situations of divorce or other complications. Then the House of Representatives asked whether I could not do it for that population, and I hear that here too. Let me start with the question: is implementation possible? Then it says, no, because there is no legal basis for it. If you really want it, I say here, you can make such a law; then you can make an emergency law. But there's a much more important argument, and there's the big risk. Then you have to choose a reference date; let's say 1 July of this year. That's the care population at the time. This means that citizens will be excluded, for example those who would have a health allowance later that year. Filtering the source file care premium recipients at home level, so that, for example, only one benefit is paid per dormitory and not all students who receive care allowance cost extra time and is susceptible to error. And we have learned, even in the case of the temporary childcare allowance scheme, that it is often seen as unfair by those who are right next to it. Before you know it, you'll have the next recovery operation. So it is really not unwilling, but if you would then make a law without appeal and appeal procedures, that would be legally vulnerable again. In the very short time we have been given, by the way, we have come to the conclusion that the risks are greater, compared to what you really want to do, namely that 500 euros leave countries where they should land. Whether you do it through the care allowance, at least the care allowance beneficiary, or the rent allowance beneficiary... We have even looked at the Tax Office once more. 'Cause you're gonna get the question of who's gonna do it. As far as the Social Insurance Bank is concerned, we have come to the conclusion that you should not do that. We also looked again to see if we could do it with the Tax Office: Mr Van Rooijen's cheque. This is just a consideration I want to give you here. We can't solve it now, but if we wanted something like this in this kind of emergency situation, you should actually have a law that we could charge ourselves as a cabinet and parliament; we might have had to make that law by the end of last year, if not at the beginning of this year, which is good and on time and has been well treated in the Second and First Chamber, where you have the legal basis but have also done it legally in such a way that you can press the button if you need the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u246	A compliment to the Secretary of State for explaining this in this Chamber. I mentioned a general check, i.e. disconnected from the care or rent allowance, because otherwise you will end up in the whole problem of reimbursement, postcalculation and so on. I came up with it because last year in France the cheque was introduced very quickly. I don't know if it's loaded or untaxed; I assume it's untaxed. Germany is now considering, in the context of a wage brake, a possible untaxed one... The reports on this are again that it is not entirely certain whether this is going to happen, but France is doing so and Germany is considering it now. Is it conceivable that in the autumn you will issue an emergency bill for a general check, apart from the care and rent allowance, for those at the bottom who need it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u247	No, we're not considering that now, because again, as I said, someone has to do it. If we were to do this now this year, it would be produced under steam and boiling water, and we would then have to put it in the Tax Office in a technical manner. With everything that's in the Tax Office right now, I'm afraid to take that responsibility. I can promise that, but I can't do that, and then I'll be standing here in nine months with the story of "yes, sorry, but we're having such big problems right now." So no. You could think about the following, but of course we should discuss this in the Cabinet and really, again, that is not easy. You could think about a legal toolbox that you can use in an occasional case on top of all the schemes we have structuralally. But we're not gonna do that this year.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u248	Thank you for this comprehensive answer. Do I understand the Secretary of State in such a way that the Cabinet would like to see if it could come up with some sort of helicopter bill? Would the cabinet like to see if that is possible if it is necessary in the future? For we are not yet at the end of the misery when it comes to purchasing power, I fear. Would he promise to let us know, at least in the autumn, whether it could possibly get hands and feet? My question was not to make a check this year, but to see if it could be done on the basis of a new law next year, especially if the purchasing power problems continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u249	I have already indicated that there is a lot of work in those tables. I just discussed Table 2.2. So I think it is very good that we should inform both Chambers in greater detail that it is not unwillingness. We have also indicated that it is sometimes even true that something technical can be done, which is also stated in the impact, but that the risks in the implementation are still too great. My colleagues have also explained this; both Mrs Van Gennip and Mrs Schouten have done so. I therefore believe that we will come back to that in writing. On the basis of a thorough piece, I would like to start the discussion, but again, I will not say that there will be a check this year.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u250	Then Mr Van Gurp.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u251	I thank the Secretary of State for this answer. I share his concerns about the feasibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u252	I give the floor to Mr Van Gurp van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u253	I've been holding back so far, but I'm only reacting now. First a word of appreciation because I think that the Secretary of State is really motivated and involved in addressing the questions, but there is something I should like to say and I do not understand. I have the CPB stress test here for me. It states that reducing excise duties, VAT and taxes on energy and fuel is not effective and effective if the aim of those measures is to avoid this type of affordability problem. However, the cabinet has chosen that route. Then a broad part of the Chamber asks: could you not give the people who are eligible for a health care allowance you also have the rent allowance, but take the care allowance, that group is a bit wider now just one-off à fund perdu €500? So not through the system of the care allowance, because then you get it all with the post-taxes and so on, but could you just give those people, that group of people, that amount, €500, a fund perdu? This means that there can be no post-taxation, that it does not count for income and so on. I simply do not understand analytically why this could not be done and why it could be done, and it happened that the CPB says: you should never have done that. Can you please explain it to me? I can tell you're taking it seriously, and I take it seriously too, but I just don't understand it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u254	Minister Kaag has just explained that the measures taken by this cabinet are in the order of 6.4 billion in total. I am opposed to the idea that money has been thrown away in generic measures such as the reduction of excise duties and the reduction of VAT, because that is not the case. After all, the first package focuses very strongly on energy taxation, both tax relief and tariff. Everyone has benefited from this, but also very clearly the lowest incomes. I do agree, however, that the reduction in excise duties has not been limited to the lowest incomes. The same applies, of course, to the reduction of VAT. Nevertheless, we now have the €800 plus the €500, which falls into that target group. Then according to your idea of a fund perdu. I have just tried to explain to you, then I refer again to Tables 2.2 and 2.4 that you have to define a population. One is the population of the care allowance. By the way, you reach people who may not need it, I say. Rent allowance is a smaller population. You're gonna have to draw a line somewhere. I also see Mr Van Gurp nodding. I don't intend to just hand out a check to any group with a certain income. You're gonna have to do a delineation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u255	That's what I said. I said take the delineated group. Just for the convenience of the conversation, let's take the care allowance. Then do not use an increase in the care allowance, but take that group and just give that defined group €500, €600, €400.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u256	But that's exactly what we figured out. Table 2.1 deals with the one-off increase in the care allowance. In the letter of 29 March, we had already stated that we should not do that. Then we said: no, we do not do it once via the healthcare allowance, but we take the population that receives care allowance. I have just tried to explain that there are so many risks. Then we went one step further, in the extreme attempt to do something. So that's from your point of view. Can't you do something for that group, but without any objections and appeal or anything like that, as well as with the Tax Office? I have just said that it is legally vulnerable if you do not have a legal basis for that. That's one. Those are also the lessons we have learned as a government, with all the recovery operations that we now have on our plate. Secondly, I have said quite frankly here that you should not do that to the Tax Administration, with everything on the board, this year.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u257	Finally, Mr. Van Gurp.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u258	I appreciate your reflection that you say "we should have done that sooner," because that corresponds to what I said in my term, namely that you need to fix the roof when the sun shines. But still a little while. About the second variant, not through the Tax Office, but the target group people with care allowance, and then suddenly an amount, I heard you say: then there are people who might have wanted to have it, but who come into a situation a month later where they don't get it, or maybe there is someone who gets it twice. What strikes me is that things like that seem to be decisive in giving it to no one. 'Cause then nobody's gonna get next to it. After all, if no one gets it, no one gets it wrong. But at another point it is used, while it is a demonstrably ineffective method. And with that, I'm not quoting the GroenLinks program, but the Central Planning Bureau. Then why don't you accept that maybe some people get it that didn't deserve it? That's always a minority. And maybe in three months' time there'll be someone who does belong to the group, but hasn't had it. Then at least there are a few million people who have had it. And now you weigh it so hard that no one gets it. I just don't understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u259	That is exactly what this is all about. We're talking about a group of 4.4 million people. If 5% to 10% doesn't get it, falls off the boat and goes to court... how many judgments do we still have to get from the Supreme Court or from the Council of State in which we get spit on our vest because of the execution? I'll draw a parallel. There's a ruling from the Supreme Court on box three. Those who object in good time will be honoured. As a cabinet, we just sent a letter to the Second and First Chambers. What are we gonna do with the non-objections? There are four scenarios. That sounds very simple, but if you look at those four scenarios, you can see that it's absolutely not. In this case, they are not entitled to it and yet some will be able to go to court. That is exactly what the cabinet has said: we are not going to take that risk now. I would like to continue the discussion on a much more solid legal instrument. I am not setting an example with regard to the surcharges. When it rains you can seem to do something beautiful, but you come from the rain in the drip.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u260	I would like to move towards the second term of the Chamber, but first give the floor to Mr Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u261	To prevent me from having to come forward in a moment to ask if my question can still be answered... I understand that the Secretary of State has cited a lot of examples that would show that it is almost impossible to implement it or that there is at least a great deal of risk. Is it not an idea to go all the way back to the basics and reduce tax rates? This improves household purchasing power, makes work more rewarding, reduces marginal pressure and the tax system becomes less complicated.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u262	I can answer that very briefly. These are all questions that really come back in the August decision-making process. The same applies to Mr Van Rooijen's question about what is possible in the area of tax reduction. I would say: read Table 1, Measure 15 on the general tax rebate, Measure 13 on the labour rebate, Measure 12 on the tariff reduction. But we're not gonna do that once this year. We didn't make those tables for nothing. That's my answer. We'll come back to it in August. They are all useful options for 2023. Mr Van Rooijen asked to freeze the so-called forest tax. Of course, we are going to look very seriously at the position of pensioners in the purchasing power debate in August. I cannot anticipate that at the moment. Mr Schalk addressed the position of a earner. I was waiting for it, because that's how I know him. I appreciate him in his enormous perseverance when it comes to his pleas for the one-earners. It's just seven times seven pulling around Jericho and once... We'll come back to that in the context of the whole load, but I'd like to make a few comments very briefly. It's a relatively small group of sole earners. In the Netherlands we always talk about single-earners versus two-earers, but in many situations there are one-and-a-half earners. This is mainly due to part-time work in the Netherlands. The income-dependent combination discount is being abolished, as stated in the coalition agreement. Parents are catered for by childcare. That is a tax measure which will also embrace Mr Schalk. We would like to continue the discussion on the Tax Plan. Mr. Chairman. Mr Otten's point: we need to hire good people from the Tax Administration to avoid implementation problems. I really don't recognize that image. We make the laws here, the Second and the First Chamber together with the government. The enforcer implements those laws. I'm not going to mention a whole series of laws here, but one thing is clear. In the field of taxation, we have a collective responsibility, at least over the last 20 years, for the very complex legislation. Tonight I have heard again: can we not in that situation, can we not there an exception, can we not? With that, you're going to put pressure on an executive service, where very good people work. We talked about IT earlier; there are also technical briefings about it at the Lower House. I am very willing to offer that to the First Chamber as well. All the information I have at my disposal as Secretary of State should also be known to Parliament. I don't need to be in those technical briefings. It all sounds so simple, but it's not. We had an I.T. I.S. Department once. Mr Otten remembers that too. There were budget cuts on the Tax Administration and IT at the beginning of the second decade, which didn't reinvest in time. As a result, we are now in a period of five to seven years in which we need to modernise on the one hand, but at the same time we are being put on hold every time in terms of prioritisation or partly withdrawn because, for example, there is a recovery operation. I'm thinking of the surcharges, of box 3, of the Fraud Signaling Provision. I want to nuance the image as if the IRS couldn't handle it all. I believe that Mr Crone said that there is a great deal to be done when it comes to parameters, but that we must also take into account a tax administration in transition when changing systems. That is my answer to Mr Otten's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u263	Thank you for this realistic answer, I say to the Secretary of State. I totally agree. Politics is making it all too complicated. That is why we have consistently advocated simplification in recent years. We believe that things should be simplified with fewer surcharges, with less complicated detailed arrangements. I understand from the Secretary of State that this is not possible in the current situation. We don't need technical briefings on everything. Parliament must check that what the government does is done, but it must not interfere with that implementation all day long at a detailed level. That's what the cabinet's for. That is the responsibility of the ministers. As far as we are concerned, there is sometimes too much attention to all these implementation details. If we don't make these complicated laws, it'll be easier to implement. Let's say we're going to simplify it considerably. We think that is very necessary. Isn't that feasible for the next five years? Is that what I'm supposed to distract from?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u264	Simplifying can be done in a number of ways, the General Court has shown that once again in reports. We in this country have a lot of tax arrangements and tax facilities, which has grown historically. In the fiscal legislative and policy agenda, I announced that we will come forward with a plan of action next year. It is always very difficult in the Netherlands, once a facility has been given... I mention as an example the tax old age reserve. As a cabinet, we have proposed abolishing it. That's gonna take a lot of effort. The arguments are very simple: that old-age tax reserve was once created so that entrepreneurs could form a pension fund. Yes, exactly, that was former Secretary of State Scholten. You had a subtraction and that allowed you to form a retirement pot. And if you would then retire, then of course there had to be enough in that jar to enjoy your retirement as an entrepreneur. And what does it turn out to be? 50% is subtracting, but the money isn't in the retirement jar anymore. Then we're gonna take care of it another way. Mr Schouten and I will come back to this later, to the third pillar of the Pensions Act; Mrs Schouten is making a full effort.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u265	You said this was an example.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u266	You don't have to wait five to seven years for that kind of thing. But if, for example, you want to introduce a whole new income tax system, you just really need more time. Look at the proposal that we are also discussing with you about how we are going to tax property income. We can't do that until 2025.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u267	I looked into the situation in the early 1970s, when we also had a considerable energy crisis, with rising oil prices in 1973. Not that I want to talk about Mr Van Rooijen, but he happened to be Secretary of State for Finance, which is what you are now. And he immediately acted on 1 July 1974 and introduced a lower 20% rate for the lowest incomes and the tax rebates which at the time was the tax-free sum immediately increased, thus keeping the purchasing power for the lower and middle incomes reasonably up to the level. The situation is different now, of course, but suppose you would want to do something like that, that you raise the tax discount... that parameters you can just change within the IT, seems to me, but that's not my business, that's your business... how fast could that be? These are generic measures that quickly solve the worst pain for the low and middle incomes generically. Then they don't have to go to the city to fill out all the forms. It's the same for everyone. You might be able to correct that for high incomes somewhere else. If you'd like to do that, just a generic measure for middle and lower incomes, how much time do you need for that, Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u268	Thank you very much for this question. I strongly recommend that Mr Otten read Table 1 again: Measure 12, 13, 14, 15. We can just do that from 2023. If you have the idea that that is not possible because of the IT service, these are parameters.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u269	Yes, that was my question, so if you wanted to, could it have been introduced in 2023?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u270	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u271	Okay, that was my question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u272	That is the answer; not one time in 2022, but structuralally in 2023 if we wanted to. We will come back to that when we debate again with you after Princess Day. It's all in the tables, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u273	Secretary of State, it can't be prettier, I'd say! We are now at the second term on the side of the Chamber. I give the floor to Mr Van Gurp. I would ask the House to exercise some silence, even if it is late, because otherwise I will have to call 'order, order', and then... Mr. Van Gurp.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u274	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would also like to thank the Ministers and Secretary of State for the pleasantly involved, passionate and direct communication. Our group has initiated this debate on reflection and calls for reflection. We therefore want to reflect on what we have heard. When I look at it, I actually see two images that don't come together. I see an image of a coalition, a cabinet team, who has the idea of having been horribly busy with the Spring Note for months. You run into someone and they're always busy calling and doing; then they're always working on that spring note. That is also serious, of course, and they have been very much involved in this and have weighed, reviewed and done all kinds of things. What comes out in the end is that a few things are happening now. A lot of things are said: that does not happen now, that has to go to August and then it comes into the budget. I really think that team says that they really seriously took the spoils out of there. The other picture is a society, a parliament, a parliament, a First Chamber, which says: what is happening very little. How can that be? Why don't you come up with something? Those images aren't coming together. In my opinion, the representative of the people is genuinely representing the people and saying that this cannot be done. In the House of Representatives this leads to a motion of censure or disapproval and to votes against the budget; all expressions of the feeling that your perception of reality is not consistent with our perception of reality. Those paradigms are so different they don't get together. That's a problem. There is a paradigm of the system in which the cabinet says: yes, we are really trying, but yes, it is not working, it is not working, it is not working, you should not want that, you should not want that. That's also the power of systems. A system is right, so if you're gonna change something about it, there's always something that doesn't add up, which can't do anymore. You can let that dominate you. And there's the paradigm of the people who say, "We don't belong at the end of the month, do something about it; it'll all be with that system world, who cares how you do it, but fix it." That is what we are getting presented here tonight in a nutshell and then we notice our impotence. We're not getting in there. Then you get a bit of the ironic situation that the First Chamber, especially the guardian of the longer term, has to say to the cabinet: yes, it's all wonderful that you want something in the longer term, but you'll really have to do something now, you can't drop that hole. That is not out of rottenness, but it is out of a really serious and intrinsic and in my view well understood sense of urgency about what lives in society. That's the analysis. That does not mean that it is all nonsense what is being said, because there is no bullshit at all. But it is that if we add it all together, it eventually leads to nothing; to almost nothing at all. And when you step outside the paradigm, you say: yes, that is really unacceptable. That leaves the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance with no choice but to vote against the Social Affairs budget. We don't like doing that, we don't like doing that, we hardly ever do that. That does not mean at all that there is not a lot of respectable things in it, as Minister Van Gennip rightly said. They should go on, too. In fact, voting against means nothing other than an emergency to get a new supplementary budget as soon as possible, in which this is settled and those other things can go on. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u275	Thank you, Mr. Van Gurp. I call Mr Crone on behalf of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u276	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Many thanks to the rulers, because we taste a lot of empathy, and I say that sincerely. We had a different view of the discussion in the Lower House. We are not talking about this, of course, because we are not reviewing each other, but we have come to that point, so that is a positive thing. I do not go through all the points, but we are very much looking forward to the August package and the tax package that the Minister and the Secretary of State for Finance come up with, with the shift of capital also mentioned by the Minister of Labour from taxes on labour to wealth and so on, and also for progress. If the CPB research shows something, then it is that the progression, against all intents, has become so bad in the Netherlands that it is gradually the least in the world, I believe. However, I would like to make a very brief comment on the points. I have always said that I only want to have a commitment now on points for which it is too late if that does not happen until September. What are you supposed to do in August because otherwise it's too late? That's the wml pulling forward. A lot of people want that. But if you decide that we can do more in January than is currently foreseen, we will hear it in August or September in the Millions Note. You still have 5% in the pocket for the entire cabinet period, I'll say. The same applies to the IO-AOW. We're hoping you can maintain it. I recognize the practical problems of the care allowance, even if you do it à fond perdu. What limits are you going to set within those 4.7 million people? It's what it is. The child benefit. I came up with it late, too, so I'll take the blame for the fact that it's not as clear as it sounds at the moment. However, I am pleased that the Minister has clearly spoken with empathy about whether we can still do this. She also said she'd like to look into it again. I'd like to hear that before September 1st, she's investigating whether it's really not possible. If we can do it a little bit, we'll hang out. Then about the numbers. You can always say: who gets it upstairs one and a half times? But under one and a half modes is 56% of the whole group. I'm still checking the numbers. That's quite a group. It is precisely the groups that everyone says are those middle groups above 120% of the social minimum that are now getting nothing. So it's an important target group after all. So I'm gonna keep him above the market, and I hope you'll send me that investigation. But like Mr Van Gurp, I must say that I cannot tell the group that I have brought something in. The conclusion is that I should vote in favour of a budget which does not contain what we had hoped for. You can already feel him coming: that is not our choice for Social Affairs, so we will not support the supplementary budget. But again, I'm happy with all the information. If the empathy we hear here translates into a fantastic August/September decision-making, then you can count on us again.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u277	Thank you, Mr Crone. I call Mr Kox on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u278	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. And thanks to the rulers for their extensive responses to our input. Like the two previous speakers, I do have mixed feelings, as it is called. Outside this Chamber, I will not meet very many people who say: well, something is going to happen. Within this Chamber, I must say to the rulers: you have explained very well why it is so difficult to make something happen. But people's representatives have more to do when it comes to putting the concerns of the people in the government than to understand the concerns of the government. The government is there to govern and must therefore come up with proposals to meet the needs of the people. That's not happening right now. Once again, you have all explained properly why it is not possible. I just said computer says no. The Secretary of State says: table says no. I believe all that, but I'd say try harder. Try harder. Well, that sounds easy, and I imagine you're thinking, well, come on yourself. But, yeah, that just doesn't happen. So I'd love to, but I'm guessing the government change is just gonna take a little bit more time. But I think there's better to think of. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u279	Thank you, Mr. Kox.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u280	Mr Crone. You're done, aren't you, Mr. Kox?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u281	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u282	I have a bit of a problem with the following. Mr Kox is holding the motions because he is also thinking: how would that work here? I'm just so curious. We've had a whole debate here, but I can't hear the coalition parties say anything. I haven't seen that many debates. I just had a little debate about child support. The word 'Parliament', and indeed the government's policy, says: an open arm to the opposition and you name it all. But I will only interpret it as total support for the opposition's requests, so that the cabinet really comes up with even better proposals. But I've been a little surprised.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u283	You miss it, too, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u284	I miss the input of the coalition parties.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u285	Mrs. Oomen. Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u286	I'm...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u287	Whoa. Was this an interruption to Mr Kox? I will give Mr Kox the opportunity to respond. The question to Mr Kox is what he thinks of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u288	It's the good right of every...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u289	The later the evening...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u290	No, no, no. I give the floor to Mr Kox.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u291	I'm still at first.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u292	Then you will have the floor, Mrs Oomen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u293	It's no different. Sometimes it is. I think it is the right of every group to speak out or to remain silent. I would have liked it if the coalition parties had said more, because we're all looking for opportunities. For the government's part, it has also been said by several rulers: this is not a matter of coalition versus opposition, but we should all be looking. If I say "try harder," I would also like to say to our coalition parties here in this room: do your best. Today we have had this debate; we will continue in August. It is the right of every political group to decide on this. Mr. Chairman. One final comment. The point made by the Minister of Finance that there is no light between what she says and what the Prime Minister says, I suppose. I have no reason to doubt that. But that also means that the starting point is that money is not the problem, but the implementation. If there are proposals on the table in August, I will judge them on the feasibility and not on the financial side of the matter, because that was not the problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u294	I will, as usual, ask after Mr Koffeman whether one of the Members wishes to speak in the second term. In theory, the entire coalition could still appear here. That's what we're waiting for. I now give the floor to Mr Otten on behalf of the Otten Group. I can see Mrs. Oomen writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u295	Mr. Chairman. We share Mr Crone's observation that the coalition has left the debate to the left or right. That's what I said in the first term. But that must have to do with the haves and the have-nots, as I have already noted. Mr. Chairman. It is now Wednesday 13 July 2022. Are we still having a debate with Minister Kaag on Wednesday? Tomorrow is July 14th and the French celebrate quatorze juillet. "No details," wrote King Louis Seize in his diary on July 14, 1789, while that day in Paris the Bastille was stormed. No details: I had to think about that while listening to this ministerial trio. This debate was a rather surreal experience for us. Minister Kaag seems to be halfway with her head in Bali and I didn't really feel like it, but it's good that she was here in the First Chamber to inform us that all the important decisions of the cabinet are now being postponed to August. The rule is to move forward. Minister Van Gennip thinks about long-term plans and comes with the vision of opportunities in the autumn. As world-famous economist John Maynard Keynes said in the 1930s, "in the long run we are all dead." Millions of Dutch people come into liquidity problems now, cannot pay their energy bill, mortgage or groceries, especially with long-term plans or vision of opportunities. They cannot say to their energy supplier: wait until August, then you will hear how I pay the bill; do you also accept vision of opportunities? Of course you can't. Mr. Chairman. This Rutte IV cabinet is increasingly reminiscent of the cabinet with Van Agt, Terlouw and Den Uyl, which broke up in May 1982 after eight months. That was also at an economically difficult time for the Netherlands, with a crisis that quickly struck. Eventually, that cabinet went down to bickering, strikes and great social unrest, after which all kinds of important political leaders disappeared from the scene and Lubbers started to put things in order. We think we're in such a paradigm change now. That word has been widely used in this Chamber this week. We think we are on the verge of great unrest, because this cabinet does not understand what is going on in society. I would like to make an exception for Secretary of State Van Rij, because our impression is that he clearly seems to understand that. Mr. Chairman. I'm rounding up. We are not tabling any motions tonight about solutions that evaporate like a drop on the glowing purchasing power plate or do something here or there for some specific target group or supporters. That is quite pointless as long as the people who play the financial buttons in the cabinet do not properly understand what is going on and how fast it is going. As I said, Secretary of State Van Rij seems to understand, but he says: well, I can't do much, because it's all not very feasible; sorry. The good news is that it is possible to lower income tax rates by 2023, we just hear, but for many Dutch people it will probably be just too late. Mr. Chairman. This approach by the cabinet is totally inadequate. Actually, it makes us a little despondent. There must now be a signal that it really cannot go on like this. That is why we are going to vote against Minister Van Gennip's budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u296	Thank you, Mr. Otten. Before I give the floor to Mr Kox, I would like to say that I do not find the caricature you make of the actions of Minister Kaag, who is here with us and has been present correctly, appropriate and offensive.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u297	Her body language wasn't very enthusiastic, especially towards me.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u298	You're going through with this, too. Then I'm gonna pronounce you out of order. I don't want this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u299	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u300	Minister Kaag is a guest here and we have to treat her with respect. You can find all the content of it, but the way you do it is not very stylish.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u301	I noticed that, too. However, it was not just Minister Kaag. The three ministers were only a little involved. Fortunately, our former colleague saved the case for a while. I do not think that is a way of discussing it, especially from a group which I believe has not tabled a single proposal during this sitting, not as a proposal and not as a motion for a resolution, to do anything in the short term. Yes, you want to reform the tax system. The Secretary of State for Finance said: okay, if we have the time to do so for the next five years, we can get right to it. I do not think that we should react in this way, because then we would be doing wrong to our position as a Chamber. We have told the government what we think of the assessment on that side. I believe that we have said so far: we look forward to your further actions. I think it's a little too skinny to say: the rulers are sitting here, but they're not interested. And that by a group that has not tabled a single proposal. I know you better.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u302	As I said, we're not all going to submit micromanagement moves about €100 here and €100 there, as some other parties do. We see a very large analogy with the corona crisis, where people were always running behind the facts. So that seems to be something structural in this cabinet: first we have to pass on the bad news, then the situation has deteriorated further, and then you are always managing the situation for a few months before that. We want to send that message, because we believe that it is now the most important thing to land it in the cabinet. I hope that works. We do it our way. It may be that not everyone agrees with that. For some people, that might come from a corner where they say: I would do that differently myself. I get that. But I think you, as a Socialist Party, should understand better than anyone else, I say to Mr Kox, that there is a great deal of unrest in Dutch society at the moment. Then we also have a pandemic behind us. We all know what's going on there. So it's pretty serious after all. If we're going to say "it's business as usual"...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u303	You're going to get your whole...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u304	... then I think we should get that signal... [The President shuts down Mr Otten's microphone!]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u305	No, no, no. You are now going to repeat your entire speech. Thank you. Your point is clear. I now give the floor to Mr Van Rooijen on behalf of the 50PLUS Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u306	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank all four heads of government, the three ministers and the Secretary of State. I don't know if the Secretary of State is there just like me at the time, but there's a coincidence. By the way, I appreciate the presence of Minister Kaag today, for the sake of clarity. Mr. Chairman. The Minister of Finance asked me: what am I supposed to answer? I said: well, we'll talk later; we'll talk in the autumn. There is actually one question I would like to repeat. I pointed out the JA21 motion. They said: can't you use these extra VAT revenues for tax relief for the middle groups? The Minister was right to say that we have budgetary rules. I also said I share those rules. However, I wanted to put a similar thought on the table. That's what I did. If you did a large pension index, that would result in many billions of tax revenues structurally. Suppose you index 55 billion for the pensioners. Moreover, we are talking about 75 billion for workers. You talk about huge amounts of money. But take 55 billion for pensioners. It could also be a lower amount. About a third is the tax claim. At the 55 billion, 12 to 15 billion will come in structuralally. Imagine that. It doesn't cost the state anything. The people, including those with small pensions, are making considerable progress, and the State receives many billions, regardless of VAT. Can I ask the Minister of Finance not to regard my idea as far less creative in advance than that of JA21 in the House of Representatives, but to take a serious look at it and perhaps come back to it in the autumn? I will come back to pensions later, but at least I thank the Minister for her response. I was very pleased with the statement made by the Minister for Social Affairs, who said: do not use the word 'elderly'. It really landed. Say "seniors." I would like to ask the Minister whether, in view of the large labour market shortages, she is prepared to discuss with employers whether greater pressure can be put on business, on employers, when it comes to older people who are unfortunately already 50 people or 55 people who, for whatever reason, are losing their jobs and are no longer in employment, but who are still able to work. I know people. They also write to me a lot of letters that send out hundreds of applications and don't even get answers. That's just a form of age discrimination. Is the Minister prepared to bring this to the attention of employers again? That really is a win-win situation for everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u307	I wasn't really following it anyway. I think Mr Van Rooijen is asking for a major one-off correction. But he referred to a motion that JA21 tabled in the House of Representatives, in which it was actually proposed that the structural additional tax revenues for the government leading to rising inflation should be used structurally in the future for tax reductions. Mr Van Rooijen indicated that this would not be within the budgetary rules. It's pretty simple, isn't it? There will be structurally higher yields and they can be used for all kinds of things, but the proposal now before us is: reduction of costs. So why wouldn't that be feasible?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u308	I didn't mean to criticize the motion. I said I thought it was a very creative motion from the House of Representatives. Very remarkable, by the way, that the VVD supported them, but that aside. But I insist, with the Minister of Finance, that's what you have when you're "we of finance" -- that that budget rule is very strong. This is also the difference between exogenouss and endogenouss. Exogen means that with new measures you have new cover. Endogen is, as the Minister also said, the riding on the waves, going up and down: if VAT revenues fall, we are not going to increase taxes either. I fully agree with the Minister of Finance. But all the appreciation for the creativity of JA21 to talk about this subject anyway, because that money does indeed come in. But aside from that...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u309	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u310	Then to Minister Schouten, about the €800/€1,300 scheme of today. The Minister said something about that. Would the Minister also like to look here at how, through the VNG, as is the case with the labour market with the employers, it is still possible to improve information for the AOW people, so for the seniors who only have AOW or a small pension? Because I only know people, even in my own environment, who don't know. And when I tell them, they ask, "Do I have to fill out forms? I'm not gonna beg for $200." 'Cause that's what it was last year, isn't it? AOW'ers without a pension could...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u311	Mr Van Rooijen, I am sorry, but at the request of a number of Members of Parliament, I have to interrupt you, asking whether there can be any silence in the Chamber. That may be a new request, but it is otherwise difficult for people to follow what you say. So the friendly request is to be quiet in the room. If you want to participate in the debate, you can use the interrupt microphones. If you want to have group meetings or consult with other groups, you can do so in the Hall. There are also coffee and refreshments, so everything is arranged. But I'd like to be quiet in the room. Go ahead, Mr. Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u312	Mr President, thank you. With Minister Schouten, the Minister for Poverty Policy, Participation and Pensions, I would like to talk in greater detail about the fiscalisation of the AOW in the future. It is true that there is no proposal yet, but let us agree that it is not going to happen either, given the enormous burden of 5.5 billion and the income effects of 11 to 15 billion. Mr. Chairman. Then Secretary of State Van Rij. I hope he looks very seriously at freezing the forest tax. Indeed, if inflation is 10%, that means that AOWs, unlike the workers...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u313	Yeah, I just requested silence, but yeah, it's hard.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u314	Unlike the workers, in the event of inflation of 10%, the AOWers are very quick to move to the next disc of 18% more tax or, if it is a higher disk, 10% more tax. That's dramatic. If you do that for that group that's just on that border, it's gonna have dramatic consequences. Look, with the 1% inflation from the past, it all went slow, but this is going really fast. So I'm gonna ask the Secretary of State again to pay attention to this. I mentioned the point of the half-general tax rebate. Does he want to take another look at that? The half overall tax reduction is over €2,000 for workers and only half for the AOW's, namely €1,000. That was always argued with: yes, but the AOWs do not pay a premium. That was the case at the time. In fact, workers paid 18%. In the meantime, however, the workers pay almost no more AOW premium because of the reduction in working hours, and I think that the inequality of half the general tax rebate has been proven. It needs to be levelled.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u315	Your speaking time is almost up.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u316	Yes. I welcome the Secretary of State's willingness to look again at some sort of helicopter emergency law, but we will come back to that. Mr. Chairman. About tax cuts. I remember, in 1974...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u317	No, but, Mr. Van Rooijen, don't go again... you're already over your time!
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u318	Yes, Mr. Chairman. I'm reading two motions, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u319	Oh, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u320	Yes. I had another anecdote, but I'm saving it for...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u321	We'll do that later.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u322	Yes. Mr President, two motions for resolutions. It's a very nice anecdote! The: Mr Van Rooijen and Mr Baay-Timmerman proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the extra high inflation is seriously affecting the purchasing power of pensioners without having any additional earning capacity;]] [[Whereas the policy coverage rate is rapidly approaching the current level of coverage;]] [[Whereas pension funds indicate that they are considering indexing less than allowed on 1 January 2023 in order to facilitate the conversion of pension entitlements into capital;]] [[calls on the Cabinet to consult pension funds in order to promote the maximum indexing of funds that is permitted,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-36120-IX-E]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u323	We can do that later.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u324	Then there's the second motion. The: Mr Van Rooijen and Mr Baay-Timmerman proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having regard to the fact that pension funds have not or hardly indexed pension benefits and pension entitlements since 2008;]] [[Whereas this has led to a sharp fall in the purchasing power of pensioners and a significant fall in the level of ambition in the building-up of the pensions of active participants;]] [[Whereas, due to the sharp increase in arithmetic interest rates, the levels of coverage have also increased significantly;]] [[calls on the Cabinet to encourage pension funds to make up for the lack of indexation since 2008 as from 1 January 2023,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-36120-IX-F]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u325	Then the anecdote, in one sentence.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u326	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Mr. Otten.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u327	Well, that's convenient, because that's exactly what I have a question about. As I said in my term, Mr Van Rooijen introduced a new disc and a higher duty-free sum in the Den Uyl cabinet in no time. My question to Mr Van Rooijen is very simple. When you did that, in 1974, how much time did the IRS need from the moment you said "I want to do so" until it was implemented? That's the question I have. It's a very simple question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u328	Then I'll start with the anecdote, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u329	No. No, you can just mention the number of weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u330	Then he comes to the end!
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u331	The number of weeks. No, Mr. Van Rooijen, seriously. This is already on the verge of what is on the agenda.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u332	No, but the anecdote is serious, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u333	Three months? Four months?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u334	I became Secretary of State...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u335	I am really going to put an end to this, because now people are also starting to scream through the room.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u336	Mr. Chairman. I became Secretary of State in December...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u337	No, Mr. Van Rooijen. I'm sorry. You can briefly answer the question...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u338	Yeah, I'm gonna do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u339	Otherwise, I'm declaring it out of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u340	On January 3rd I was at the Ministry. I decided, in consultation with the Minister of Finance, immediately, on the same day, to introduce a tax reduction on 1 July which, with 10% inflation, interest and wage increases, kept purchasing power alive in that crisis.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u341	So immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u342	Okay, well, then I notice we haven't made much progress in 50 years. Then it was possible in a few months and now we are sweet with it for years. I hear things like "five to seven years," so we haven't made much progress in those 50 years.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u343	Thank you for this contribution. I shall now give the floor to Mr Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u344	Mr. Chairman. I can be brief. I thank the rulers, of course, for the wonderful answer, which was not always quite what I was hoping for. In fact, all four of them have been on the same anvil: in 2022 we are no longer doing anything besides the current measures, and we are now mainly going for 2023; that is where it has to be structural rather than incidental, and that is what we determine in the August decision-making process. We also appreciate these current measures. For me, it is not an option at the moment to vote against a supplementary budget as some sort of penal measure. I'd rather pick the flight forward. And I say to my colleagues: if we want to achieve something, we will have to focus on what the four rulers have indicated, and on 2023. This Chamber can point in that direction, hence the next motion. The: Mr Schalk, Mr Van Dijk, Mr Koffeman, Mr Kox, Mr Van Strien and Mr Van der Linden proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the government supports the lowest incomes with occasional measures such as the energy surcharge for households with an income of up to 120% social minimum;]] [[Whereas the development of purchasing power over the longer term requires structural measures for low and middle incomes;]] [[noting that a reduction in the rate of the first share in income tax improves household purchasing power, makes work pay more, reduces marginal pressure and makes the tax system less complicated;]] [[calls on the Government to include in the Tax Plan 2023 a reduction in income tax for low and middle income by reducing the first disc, and to find cover for this during the August decision-making process,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-36120-IX-G]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u345	Allow me, Mr President, to make two more comments. The first is towards Minister Van Gennip. The group that is just above 120% social minimum consists of 560,000 households. They're just out of the boat. You heard my call. I can also tell the Minister that she understands what I mean, so perhaps there will be a short response to that. Furthermore, the Secretary of State has greatly encouraged me. Together with the Secretary of State, I have noted in the past that six to seven times as much tax is paid by sole earners. The Secretary of State referred to the seven times going around the city of Jericho. A small correction to that. The first six days they walked around the city once and the seventh day they walked around the city seven times. So I'm going to intensify on this issue. I will be happy to continue to work for our families, in hope of blessing. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u346	Thank you, Mr. Schalk. Finally, Mr Koffeman has the floor on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u347	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to thank the rulers for being here so massively and having lasted so long. I'm not gonna make it very long. I understand from this debate that August is going to be very important. It's not the first time. Emperor Augustus, the first emperor of the Roman Empire, has also been quite important. But anyone who studies that history, I'm not going to repeat it, and I know Julius Caesar had a hard time in the Senate a few years later. In that sense, I think it is a good thing that we are looking forward to August. We're gonna see what the cabinet's gonna do. I have a motion in that context. I'd like to file that. The: Mr Koffeman, Mr Nicolaï, Mr Prast, Mr Van Strien, Mr Faber-van de Klashorst and Mr Kox proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that students who, between 2015 and 2023, and unlike the generations of students before and after them, often have to borrow to finance their studies and are therefore now known as the "bad luck generation";]] [[Whereas, in addition to rising energy prices, rising interest rates are likely to cause financial problems for many students and ex-students;]] [[Whereas the State has failed to provide students with a financial prospectus on interest rate risks, risk profiles, effects on mortgage commitments and the like when taking up their study loan;]] [[Whereas the conditions under which the loans were granted or to warn against possible risk of spending were not or were not independently monitored;]] [[Whereas the provision of student loans is largely financed by negative government loans;]] [[calls on the Government to freeze the interest rate on student loans at 0% and to ensure that all benefits from negative government loans for the purpose of providing study finance benefit the pro rata reduction of student debts,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-36120-IX-H]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u348	Well...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u349	Why don't you finish the job? Then I'll give the floor to Mr Crone.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u350	I just wanted to point out that I would like to hold the motion until after August, because the cabinet will have every opportunity to find out about it itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u351	You're holding the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u352	I call Mr Crone.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u353	I'll be brief. If you have asked for a commitment in the first term but have not received it, the intention of a motion is to ask for a ruling from the Chamber. But I have hardly heard anything on this subject, and certainly not in detailed form, in the first term. The motion will then not be discussed, as it will be transferred immediately to another meeting. Well, then we'll be very up-to-date instead of consulting. I will leave it at that, Mr President, because the motion has been held. I would also ask the government not to give an answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u354	Mr. Koffeman, for a response.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u355	If you haven't heard about it in the first term, you haven't listened carefully. Maybe you were working on something else; you could.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u356	Mr. Crone, please join the microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u357	I said explicitly: not in detailed form. I asked: some loans have frozen interest; how do you deal with that? I am not asking all these questions right now, but I am hearing them on the basis of your very detailed motion, which is very different from your much shorter input on this point. You can read it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u358	I'm hearing an opinion. That's okay, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u359	Thank you, Mr. Coffeeman. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the second term? Mrs Oomen, on behalf of the CDA and who knows on behalf of other groups. You never know.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u360	Mr. Chairman. If you're challenged... I felt challenged by people who think the CDA Group has no opinion. First of all, I note that this debate has been very wide-ranging. The amendment of the budgetary states has really received an extensive explanation. I wonder if we should do this next time. Mr. Chairman. I am also here to say that the CDA Group shares the concerns of many families, including families with children. We have talked about it today, because the concerns are growing, even at the end of this year. I can tell that the concerns that have been expressed here and which are also the CDA concerns are shared by the Cabinet. We have been given an outline of the possibilities and of the technical impossibilities, which are very open here and with great feeling I congratulate you all for that. I understand that decisions will be taken in August for 2023. That's what needs to be done; that's what needs to be done. A study has been undertaken to look at the possibilities of a temporary increase in the child allowance, because many families, especially families with children, are not necessarily concerned with whether income is low, higher or high in the problems. I appreciate that, too. All in all, I can see that compensatory measures are being seriously sought and structural measures, as we have heard, to improve incomes, but also to look at extras that may still be needed in this year. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u361	Thank you, Mrs Oomen. I would like to make a few comments on what you just said. I note that the subject has been addressed to me from the committee. It concerned two legislative proposals on purchasing power under the heading of the Spring Note. I have found that what has been discussed falls within that order, with a single exception. The debate on how broad or narrow one wants to set it up must take place in committee. That's just for completeness. I am not going to ask if any of the Members would like to speak in the second term, because that has already happened. Ministers, Secretary of State, are you able to respond directly to the questions of the Chamber? No. How much time do you want for suspension? Is ten minutes enough? Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u362	I give the floor to the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u363	Mr. Chairman. I haven't been asked any more questions. After you have given her the floor, Mrs Van Gennip will speak.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u364	Thank you, Minister. I shall then give the floor to the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u365	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I walked back in here, and I was wondering if you were deliberately trying to save energy. Or maybe it's to keep us awake.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u366	It's the last one.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u367	It's the last one. Thank you for all your comments. This was an important debate, which we will repeat a number of times. It is important that we share our views and our concerns and that we talk about what we can and cannot do about them. We have been able to share the concerns about what is going on in the Netherlands and about the consequences for large groups of Dutch people. We may all be frustrated or impatient. We want to do more. When can we do that and how can we do that? Eventually, political differences will emerge in our choices, but we all feel the need to take steps for the different groups. Mr. Chairman. I regret that some groups have indicated that they will vote against our supplementary budget. There are also a number of new proposals, such as the transfer of coalition agreement resources from the supplementary post to Social Affairs. I also mention debt relief, the Roemer Committee, the Caribbean Netherlands and parental leave. So those things wouldn't go on. Mr Crone cited the examination of child benefit. We really looked at that whole table of measures with open eyes. It is perhaps good to say once again that a great deal of work has been done by our officials. That's really excellently done. Everything's been figured out. This measure was indeed not included. We certainly want to look at them in the same way with the same thoroughness, but I would like to temper your expectations. There is simply a technical feasibility that we do not see because it is already in place. If you did it by AMvB, we'd have those 18 months. We do not think that is desirable either. There is also the political debate as to whether this measure is too unfocused. Does the measure not focus too much on high incomes and too little on vulnerable groups? We are looking at the technical possibilities and we will do so in the same way as in the famous table, which Mr Van Rij is so keen to refer to. He almost knows him by heart, by the way. I think the expectations have been tempered with that. Then there's the senior opportunity policy. I say to Mr Otten that my comment was specifically about senior opportunities. I really think it's worth a plan. I promised that to your colleagues in the House of Representatives, because I really think there is a lot of added value in society. I will take your point about the importance that senior citizens can continue to work longer with employers in the regular discussions. We had already promised Mrs Den Haan to see if we could pay more attention through branches and sectors in Closer than you think. I repeat this commitment, because it really is a win-win situation. There are a number of people who are more difficult to get to work, while we have a large labour market shortage. Seniors are part of that. We're working on it full of energy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u368	Mr Van Rooijen has a brief question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u369	I assume this is a promise from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u370	Oh, yeah. Mr Schalk referred to the group above 120% social minimum. We have talked about this a number of times today. That is indeed a rather large group. At the same time, I think we should realise that we are counting on a million people for these energy allowances through the municipalities, which Mr Schouten is working on. Some of the group you're talking about, of course, it's always a bit tricky, because the CPB takes one group and the VNG takes the other group, and it's probably in that group, but it's not part of it either. That's what your concerns are about, and we share them. Mr Schalk spoke neatly of what we are going to do. You put the debate together nicely. Before 2022, as stated in the letter, we see no possibility of doing these incidental things, but we are very aware of the importance of doing something structural before 2023. That is where the decision-making in August focuses. What's going on with different groups? What can we do to ensure, as the CPB also says, that we get more shock resistance for our Dutch households?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u371	Thank you, Minister. I shall then give the floor to the Minister for Poverty Policy, Participation and Pensions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u372	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. There are two more questions to my address and two motions for resolutions which I can give an appreciation to. The first question was from Mr Van Rooijen: how high can the supplementary pension be exactly above the AOW to belong to the target group of the energy surcharge? This is approximately €125 to €145 net per month, depending on the household composition. For single people it is about €125 net per month and for couples about €145 net per month. Mr Van Rooijen's question was also whether, in consultation with the VNG, I could see whether the provision of information to senior citizens could be improved. There's a lot going on. I have discussions on this with the VNG almost every week. In the regular consultation I have with them, I will ask them again to look specifically at this group. Then there are two motions. The motion on letter E invites the Cabinet to consult with pension funds in order to promote maximum indexation of the funds, which is permitted. I have to discourage this motion. I am talking about the larger pension funds at regular intervals, and of course we are also talking about their plans for indexing, for example, if that is possible. That's where the division of roles is always................................................................................................................................................................................................... So they decide how much they index, and that is not where the cabinet is going to enter. That's why I have to discourage this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u373	It is a pity, however, that if there is any possibility of indexation, pension fund management will send signals to all of us, I would also like to say: we may be able to index on 1 January, but we would actually like to save extra space when it comes to mandatory entry, converting it into the new system. The funds want to make that pot bigger in order to make it possible, at the expense of the indexation of pensioners. There are pensioners who retired 15 years ago, who have almost died statistically. They do not get that catch-up index, but they do not get the indexing on 1 January because it is said: yes, we must start saving again for the future, for the new system.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u374	What is your question, Mr. Van Rooijen? Oh, no question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u375	That does not change my appreciation of this motion, with the explanatory statement. It's really up to the pension funds. If we are going to meddle like politics in indexing, I think that will be a whole political discussion with the funds. And we really must stay far from that. Then the motion to letter F. Mr Van Rooijen has already referred to this question in order to encourage pension funds to make up for the lack of indexation since 2008 as of 1 January 2023. I believe that Mr Van Rooijen himself had already made the calculation of how much billion that would be. You'll end up in the order of 130 billion. That is money that does not serve the relations between generations very well, so to speak. We have given funds room to index earlier with a lower policy coverage rate. So now they have real possibilities, sooner than they had, to index. Fortunately, we also see that happening. But to make up for the catching-up index since 2008? I have just said that the legal frameworks are not in favour of this, but it is also a real attack on the balance within the generations. We therefore advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u376	Thank you, Minister. Then I call the Secretary of State for Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u377	Mr. Chairman. I am left with an appreciation of Mr Schalk's motion on tax relief, the motion on letter G. It invites the government to include in the Tax Plan 2023 a reduction in income tax for low and middle income by reducing the first disc and to find cover for this during the August decision-making process. This motion goes a bit ahead of the music, so I would like to propose to Mr Schalk to hold it until we have had our August decision. Then we can come back to it after Prince's Day.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u378	I do not see Mr Schalk getting up. Please continue your speech, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u379	I did not hear Mr Schalk's answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u380	Neither do I, and neither do the people at home, so it's not there. But it's coming now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u381	It would be terrible if people at home couldn't listen to the answer. Maybe a quick question on this one. If I hold her back and it was the decision-making in August, isn't there any point?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u382	I'll give you the order. I respect everything you do. If you don't want to arrest her, I'll advise her.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u383	I get it. I'm not holding the motion. I'm just putting her in a mood.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u384	Okay. Then the appreciation is: dissuade.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u385	Thank you, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-32.u386	I have come to deal with the two legislative proposals. First, the legislative proposal 36120-IX, Amendment of the fiscal state of the Ministry of Finance and the fiscal state of the National Debt for the year 2022. Does one of the Members wish to vote on the bill? Yeah, there's someone who wants to vote on this bill. I propose that the legislative proposal be voted on at the end of this sitting. Then the bill 36120-XV, Amendment of the fiscal states of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Employment for the year 2022. Does one of the Members wish to vote on the bill? That's the case. I propose that the legislative proposal be voted on at the end of the sitting. I therefore propose that we vote on the motions that have been tabled. In order to allow the Registry to draw up a voting list, I shall now suspend the sitting for ten minutes.
