ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u1	The next item is the debate on the Second Incidental Supplementary Budget on Energy Grant and the Amendment to the Participation Act on the one-off categorical provision of an energy supplement to low-income households. I would like to welcome the Minister for Poverty Policy, Participation and Pensions, the spokesmen and the people in the public gallery.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u2	First of all, I give the floor to Mrs Kathmann of the PvdA for her contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. When I went shopping a few weeks ago in the district in Rotterdam-West, in Spangen, I think there was a line of up to two hours. It was a pretty hot Saturday. I don't know if anyone remembers it. People then lined up in front of the energy box, where you can save about €15 a month. Those rows have been in all the neighbourhoods of Rotterdam since then and I think in many other municipalities, but I haven't seen them literally there. We also remember the rows in Groningen. We were right to do that, because we couldn't. The rows for the energy box that I see every day now, for that €15 in the month, are hugely long. They're rows of people who are in trouble every day. There is another example, also in Rotterdam. There's a philanthropic institution up there, not the government. That philanthropic institution has said: city of Rotterdam, government, if you do not increase the compensation for a larger group, to 140% of the social minimum, then we are going to do it. We make working people in the Netherlands just beggars. That's what you do when you let philanthropic institutions settle the debts of hardworking people. It's not just about Rotterdam, because I'm standing here in front of the whole of the Netherlands. Over 2.5 million households are facing financial difficulties. That's what Nibud warns of. People can't pay the bills anymore. The little bit of savings that there was, of course, isn't there anymore. The Social and Cultural Planning Bureau also demonstrates in its stress test that more than a million people are in financial difficulties due to high energy prices. Families see the accounts double or sometimes even triple. Every day the question with them is: can I eat hot tonight? Do I have enough to pay the rent and the bills? And now it's still warm, isn't it? It's a super-beautiful summer day. But you're gonna have to figure out what it's like to be in the winter when that stove has to be turned back on. The concerns about this are already enormous. So something really needs to be done to prevent us from ending up in a tsunami of debt and misery. Lowering VAT on energy and the one-off energy surcharge are really not enough, no matter how beautiful the gesture is. It's totally inadequate. Much more needs to be done to help people who are in serious trouble. Mr. Chairman. There's just too little happening to those people's needs right now. €800 is not enough to cover the increasing costs. The target group is far and far too small. People are sinking through the ice. The lowest incomes but also the middle incomes cannot pay the bills anymore. The Labour Party finds it incomprehensible that this cabinet has chosen for the limited target group of people who earn 120% of the social minimum. Again, a philanthropic institution sees it and says: no, 120% is too little, so please do it up to 140%, otherwise those people will die. So that's gotta be wider. So come up with an extra energy surcharge for this autumn, possibly via those €500, as the PvdA and GroenLinks have already indicated. We know that this will not happen, but increase the target audience for the energy surcharge to 130%. My question to the Minister is therefore quite simply: is she prepared to do so? Mr. Chairman. There are countless poignant stories of students living in drafty homes. Students are wearing four sweaters if it's not as hot as today. They have to make additional debts to pay the energy bill, which has just risen enormously. We are talking about hundreds of euros. In the case of questions concerning the student energy allowance, the Minister refers to the individual special assistance. But apart from the fact that this doesn't make it any easier, it is also priceless for student cities to help that group of students in this way. For the city of Utrecht alone, this amounts to about 25 million euros extra. What do municipalities have to pay for that? Should they be cutting back on social services? Is that a good plan? On top of that, the exclusion of students for the energy surcharge, according to lawyers, is simply unlawful. I would therefore like to ask the Minister what justification there is for excluding students as a group. Students should be entitled to the energy surcharge as a group. This can be done via municipalities or through DUO. I'm asking the Minister to find a solution. It doesn't matter who or how it is paid out, but make sure that students aren't literally in the cold again in winter. Mr. Chairman. The rising costs of groceries, electricity and gas cause problems for people. I told you, they're getting into trouble financially. They can't pay all the bills anymore and knock on the door for debt relief. Is this Minister going to take additional measures to counter these debts? Is the Minister prepared to agree with energy companies on buying up debts? We are also getting signals that municipalities still impose all kinds of additional requirements on people for the energy surcharge. People are asked whether the energy surcharge is refused due to savings. If you are going to address these municipalities, I ask the Minister through the President. Municipalities which do receive the money for the energy surcharge but provide this supplement to a smaller target group should also be called upon. Are you willing to share an overview with the Chamber which municipalities pay the energy surcharge for which target group? I would also like to ask the Minister how she can support young people under 21 who live on their own. They cannot use the energy surcharge, but they also simply have to do with high energy prices. Their parents often can't afford this either. Mr President, concluding. Needs are high. It's gonna take more than that. Action must now be taken to keep all these families out of the water.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u4	Thank you, Mrs Kathmann. Then I give the floor to Mr Van Baarle, DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u5	Thank you, Madam President. The people in the country pay themselves blue. We read the harrowing stories of people who delay buying because they can't afford it, of people who leave the car, of people who get caught at the cash register at the supermarket because the daily groceries are becoming more and more expensive. And then there is the energy bill, which has sometimes more than doubled for people. People in the country are in a lot of trouble. One in three households is in danger of getting into trouble because of these high energy prices. That's over 2.5 million households. Many of these households are waiting for a new energy noose. They paid an advance that was too low. What's gonna follow is a sky-high payoff. For example, Vattenfall has more than 200,000 households who have to pay at least €2,400 extra. Mr. Chairman. This is in line with what the Central Planning Bureau says: what the Cabinet does is not enough. Even with the existing policy that this cabinet is now deploying, there are still a lot of households that will have to leave all the fun things in life to get around. They can't make any more purchases. They can't do any more outings. They can only pay their charges in a moment, only pay their charges. Life from account to account, for a lot of people in the Netherlands: that's what we're heading for right now. Mr. Chairman. The €200 that has been raised to €800 is of course a good step, but that is simply not enough. That's what the Central Planning Bureau says, and that's what we see in society. There's gotta be some extras. So it is also disappointing that we are reading today that the cabinet does not want to give that extra. Why not? What brings this minister, who is responsible for all this poverty, to that? The Centraal Planbureau says that we have hundreds of thousands of households in the Netherlands who have to live from account to account, who have to leave everything that's fun in life because they can only pay their expenses. Mr. Chairman. My group also has substantive points on the energy surcharge. I'll start with a contradiction. On the one hand, the government says that municipalities must have freedom of policy, but on the other hand, the government attaches great importance to uniform implementation, which we have seen with directives. In the country, these guidelines lead to a huge number of people getting into a mess. How is the Minister going to explain that, under certain circumstances, someone in a certain municipality is entitled to that supplement, but not in another municipality? What about the power key, for example? Are there any municipalities that even apply such a power test? How unfair is it if you are paid for your assets in one municipality and not in the other? Doesn't that lead to legal inequality? Shouldn't the government have laid down much more binding rules on how municipalities should create this? Does the government have a clear view of what conditions all municipalities apply? If that is not the case, then I think it is very good that the Minister is going after it, because we have to make sure that everyone is being helped. Mr. Chairman. Can the Minister also comment on the number of applications granted? We read about good examples in the Netherlands of municipalities that indicate that a large percentage of people have been reached. But we also read about bad examples. Can the Minister give an all-round picture of that? What are the efforts of this government to ensure that people who apply also do so? I saw a nice toolkit from the Ministry of SZW, but does the government itself do more, like a national communication campaign? What channels does this government use to inform people that they can apply for it? Mr. Chairman. DENK is very concerned about target groups identified by the government for this energy surcharge. This relates in particular to students. The students are practically excluded as a target group. It is advised not to help these students. Municipalities are of course free: some municipalities help students anyway. But the advice is to rule them out. So the government doesn't give money to help these students. In particular, student cities will be affected by this. I just get the feeling: once again students, young people, are caught. Once again, they're forgotten, after the loan system. We're talking about a generation that has to build up €25,000, €30,000 or €40,000 debt. We're talking about those kids. They also suffer from the costs. They also have to pay that towering rent for those rooms. We're gonna forget about that now. Nothing's being done for them right now. How can that be justified? Lawyers have a lot of criticism about this, too. Students are only excluded on the basis of the criterion that they have a different living situation. That's just a really weird reason. Because such a diverse housing situation also applies to the rest of the Dutch population? The rest of the Dutch population also lives diversely. And why do students specifically rely on that and advise categorally to exclude them from income support? Can the Minister respond to that? What does the Minister think about the fact that there are many lawyers who say: this is just not right, this is weird? Mr. Chairman. My group therefore believes that this group of out-of-town students should also be eligible for this energy surcharge. My group is therefore preparing an amendment to this effect, which we will be submitting shortly. 'Cause it just can't go on like this. Those students must also be helped at this time. The government states that special assistance for these students would be an alternative. I would ask the Minister: isn't that a fake solution? This special assistance has in any case been subject to individual review. Municipalities say they just can't handle it if they have to help all those students with that. That's one. And two: in many cases, this special assistance is much more demanding than the energy surcharge. So what does this minister make these students happy? I think they're being sent with a rug in the reeds. Mr. Chairman. Summarizing: what we are doing now is too little and it is disappointing that the cabinet has indicated that it will not want to do any more later. DENK therefore calls upon this government to take additional measures, to allocate additional finance to support people in their purchasing power, and above all not to let students fall within this scheme and not to let them suffer from rising prices and energy costs. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u6	Thank you, Mr. Van Baarle. Then I give the floor to Mrs Maatoug, GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u7	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The world is unpredictable. No one knew, or knew exactly, that we would be in this geopolitical situation, with all the consequences for the energy markets, inflation, the bills, and certainly the energy bill. But one thing we knew, namely that we do not have the security of existence in the Netherlands in order. And then I say it nicely. We tore it down. We had a welfare state that was there for people. Over the last ten years, we have reduced the minimum social level step by step. We didn't ask, "Hey, what do you need to get by and live without poverty in this rich country?" We've always said, "We need money. Do you know where we're gonna get it? By those who have the least of all." This debate is so intense, because I wish that when we have a shock with each other, also such a big shock, a larger group of citizens can take a shock because they have been spared and because there is room in the wallet. But what we saw in the autumn, including this Committee on Social Affairs, is that only one small shock has to happen and that a very large group of citizens will not be able to survive. And that's not another piece of bad luck; that's not getting around on top of a life in which you haven't bought birthday presents for the kids for years, or dare to go to family's birthday party because you can't give a gift, or have any new outfits or clothes that you can come up with. That comes on top of a life where you don't know if you have enough food and line up at the food bank. That is quite normal for a lot of people in the Netherlands, for a lot of households, in the Netherlands, even before this whole crisis. So the fact that this law was needed is a compliment: it is a good thing that it is there and that the cabinet has acted so quickly and has also started to pay out. I find it very embarrassing. That brings me to the first point I want to make today. This law covers €800 through the municipalities for people with income up to 120% of the social minimum. For the record, these are people who earn less than the minimum wage. That confuses a lot of people. The first question I am asking the Minister has actually been asked for months. We asked the question in the autumn and also in the debate in March that we had together with the Finance Committee. What about that whole other large group of people with a moral income or low middle income? They can't catch this either. The burdens for your home remain. You're cutting back on the groceries. You're not giving me a birthday present. But you're not getting around, because that energy bill is going up by hundreds of euros. Those people aren't being supported right now. My question to this minister is: what does she think of it, what does she say to these people, where should these people get it from, and how could we have allowed it to come to this? Mr. Chairman. With my second point, I agree with Mr Van Baarle. We feel an enormous tension between generic measures and the fact that, because you want to be quick, you opt for a municipal scheme. We recognize this tension, because I understand that the Minister now wants to do something, that she is looking at what instrument she can use and that she wants to get the money to the people as soon as possible. Then there's a sigh of me: it's always a little easier to get money from companies than people. That's what we saw in Corona. I think we should get better at getting money into people's accounts fast. Like DENK, we see the discrepancy that we opt for the scheme because it can be quickly adopted. We do not choose because we want to do something decentralised. In fact, it is the cabinet's wish to pursue a generic income policy. We do that in the event of a crisis, but perhaps we should do it all the time. Now the municipal instrument is being chosen, whereas we actually have to pursue generic policies. And then it gets exciting, because then we're going to see different logic. The cabinet says: this is the budget; it is 120% for everyone. We've had to poke ourselves to get it up to 120%. If we then ask something, it is: no, that is up to the municipalities. In writing, we have said that there are municipalities which, in their municipal freedom, have a minimum social and social policy of 130%. That's within the municipal policy area, isn't it? And so that municipality facilitates it to pay out. No, answer the Empire, we have 120% and that's a generic agreement. GroenLinks thinks you should choose. The logic according to GroenLinks is that you actually want to have a generic instrument, which is why you choose to do so. It's municipal, so you have to support all the municipalities to get them to offer what they already offer. My question is therefore also: make sure that municipalities can implement their social policies and give them the funds to finance above 120%, up to 130%. Be neat in there and stop shopping for that logic. Then to the side question I just asked, for the people who were following it a little bit: doesn't this minister think it should be made easier to deposit money directly into people's accounts? Then there is the third question in my box, but Mr Van Baarle already said very well: is it true that there are municipalities that apply a power test? And if so, why is that possible? Because that's not the deal the minister made with municipalities. And what is she going to do about it, I ask you, Mr President? Mr. Chairman. My first question about the students. Is the student's energy bill rising? Does the Minister know how many students it raises? Is the minister assuming students have different energy contracts from other people? If not, how come there is no policy at all for this group? I have just found that low-income people cannot pay the bill. They're students, too. For some reason it has been chosen to exclude them and there is no separate arrangement via DUO or via Education. What is the logic of the cabinet? Where does the Cabinet think these people are gonna pay for that? Do you think that's a realistic expectation? My real question is, what are you going to do for this group? Because we have found together that we think it is very important that there is €800 for this group, because people really don't make ends meet. Then it can't be that there's nothing for this group at all. I think it's really antisocial that we're saying to municipalities right now: you can make that exception, for example, Breda is a student city and 40% of students live on their own, but if you don't have the resources, you can't do that and you have to pay it from something else. What do you say to these congregations? And most importantly, what do you say to those students who don't make ends meet right now and do everything they can? Mr. Chairman. Finally. This is something we are always very concerned about: the security of existence is not in order, the people are not getting around in this country. We've made it so bad with each other, people don't even dare ask for help anymore. Because asking the government for help will be like being ruined. That is terrible, but that also means that a lot of people are not applying for this energy surcharge right now. We think that is a very serious problem. What can we do so that people know that this €800 is there and that they know that there are no consequences for the rest of their wallet? Do we see differences between municipalities? We'd like to hear what's going to happen there and what we can do in there. Mr. Chairman. Finally. We broke up the security of existence together. That means, hopefully, that we can build it up again. For those who know this within the SZW committee, I believe that the minimum wage should be raised.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u8	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Van Kent of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u9	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I was at De Bus shopping center in Helmond the other day and I spoke to an older lady there. I asked her if she could still make ends meet. Yeah, she said very proud. She'll be fine. But when I checked, it turned out that she took something from her savings account every month and she indicated that she is no longer able to buy something delicious. A few weeks ago I was in Nissewaard and spoke with a man with an energy bill who has risen from €140 to over €320. He charged me for never not being able to pay for his income. I talked to people who said they'd get less visitors and I talked to people who could visit their family or children less, because they can't pay the price at the pump anymore. Dear people, it's a crisis. It is a huge purchasing power crisis and therefore a poverty crisis. For the people I just mentioned, the poverty crisis is not just a setback in life. No, that's really an attack on their lives, because they can't live their lives the way they want to. Therefore, the SP proposes to set up an emergency plan, which reduces the prices of messages by lower VAT, which reduces the energy bill by temporarily not levying gas taxes, thereby reducing the cost of refueling, freezing the rents and removing the penalty for being ill, its own risk. The account that this generates must reach those companies that benefit from this crisis, namely those that have become more and more profitable. That is the real solution, as far as we are concerned. Then the $800. That seemed like a nice start once, but now it turns out to be a drop on a glowing record. I've been charging it for a while. That €800 is about €66 per month. The groceries have already increased 15%, the energy has already become more than €150 per month, the petrol has already gone up €1 per litre, the care premium is likely to increase by €50 and the rents increase. It all adds up. Then, of course, the €66 and the other measures taken by the cabinet are completely inadequate. If you get that €800, because it is scandalous that students in Delft get that fee, but not in Leiden. That's inexplicable. I call on the Minister to instruct municipalities not to make that distinction anymore and to give it to everyone. I call on the Minister to make it possible for municipalities to bring the limit to at least 130% of the social minimum. For example, our Alderman in Apeldoorn has already arranged this, but that costs a lot of money. As far as the SP is concerned, this minister should make that money available so that municipalities, in cases where it is unreasonable and people really get into financial difficulties, can respond to it, increase the group entitled to it and increase the amount. Once again, the settlement through the municipalities, which alms, is not the real solution. That emergency plan to reduce costs immediately, that's the solution. And, of course, raising wages: the minimum wage to €15, the coupled benefits, but also pensions that are increasing with rising prices. During the corona crisis, we saw that the cabinet acted very quickly and held up tens of billions of companies. Now that we are talking about the wallet of ordinary people, we see that the cabinet is doing far too little and that people are getting into big trouble. Therefore, tackle this purchasing power crisis and come up with an emergency plan, Minister!
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u10	Thank you, Mr. Van Kent. Then I give the floor to Mr Stoffer of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u11	Mr. Chairman. We live in special times. A lot is insecure for a lot of people. We all feel that very strongly in the wallet, but we should also mention that it hits the minima the hardest. Today, therefore, we are talking about the energy allowance for lower incomes. It is those incomes in particular that have major problems with the higher energy bill. I am right about that at the beginning of a number of questions to the Minister. What is the Minister's picture of this problem at the moment and how does it monitor this problem of poverty and debt in these circumstances? And if we look a little further: what future scenarios does the cabinet take into account? As we can see that energy poverty will not disappear immediately, I wonder what additional measures the cabinet intends to take to prevent energy poverty from becoming even worse than it is. Let me mention certain directions in that regard. I am thinking, for example, of the isolation and sustainability of drafty homes. But perhaps the cabinet thinks of much more. I hope so. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll come to the bill before us. The SGP has always stated that it is important that we provide targeted support to the people who need it. So no shot shotgun. Let me compliment you: the €800 for people in financial difficulties is such a targeted measure. Exactly fill the hole in every individual's housekeeping or family's books, can't. That's not realistic, because we don't know exactly how much everyone is short. But as it is done now, we are helping the people who are hitting energy prices the hardest in the wallet. I would like to stress once again that this is a good thing. Colleagues have just indicated that there is less good news for students. They are excluded from the scheme and cannot claim the €800. I understand the idea that students often live together and may be able to cover the extra costs together. In some cases they will also have parents who can help them. We must also note that students often do not belong to the highest income groups. The Minister indicated that they could possibly be helped through individual special assistance, if necessary. My question is whether the Minister is prepared to look at what is possible for students who find themselves in financial difficulties and in a very difficult situation. Will the Minister encourage the municipalities to help students through the individual special assistance and what does this mean for the budget of these municipalities?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u12	Thank you. There is an interruption by Mrs Maatoug van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u13	I'm very happy with those questions. I wonder what the SGP thinks about this. We know, of course, that there are more students living in certain cities than in other cities. If you add that up and say that for example 10% or 12% of the students fall into the category, then you get a lot out of the numbers. That's pretty concentrated. Think of places with many MBO institutions, HBO institutions or universities. How does the SGP feel about that? What does that mean for the financial pressure of the municipalities?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u14	I asked if the minister could take a look at it with the municipalities. If the Minister says it would be more targeted to do something extra in those places because it plays extra there, then I think it is wise. It's got to be executable. I like the question. But I can think it's great, but the cabinet must be able to do it. First of all, I would like to hear how this problem is seen and whether there are possibilities. If it is necessary to help the municipalities financially, then I am not against it. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll get right to the performance. We are getting a lot of signals about implementation problems. The SGP, like a number of other parties, pointed to that danger in the written round. Municipalities are ultimately saddled with this arrangement. The VNG indicates that a generic measure might have been better. I have a very specific question for the Minister. Can it reflect on what the performance has been like in recent times? Municipalities have freedom of policy if they choose the reference period. I'm just thinking back to the corona support packages. In some cases this has led to curved situations. Is there the possibility for municipalities to offer specific tailor-made solutions? Very often, 80% to 90% of the cases will go well, but for the latter 10% or 20%, perhaps those percentages will be different. I would like to see room for the municipality to offer customization. I would like to hear from the Minister whether that space could actually be there. We see, for example, that a lot of people leave the €800 energy surcharge. RTL reported that last Friday. That can be due to ignorance or shame. How do we ensure that this group, which needs it badly but is not automatically in the image of municipalities, such as young disabled people in the Wajong, is reached? Does the Minister proactively encourage the municipalities to approach the target groups in all possible ways? Mr President, I saw Mrs Maatoug get up, so I thought there was another question coming.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u15	It was a sham.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u16	Yes. I do have a point of criticism. That is of a more constitutional nature. With this law, the House of Representatives seems to be out of play. I do not think it is in the nature of this Chamber to be out of play, but by now many municipalities have paid most of the energy surcharge. The money's already in a lot of people's accounts. Don't get me wrong, we're happy about that. That's good. But let's say that as a Lower House we would like to work on the bill, or even reject it. I don't intend to, but then you'll get to the question of how you do it. I think we are at a point where we are wondering whether the cabinet and the chamber should do it this way. I'm glad people have been helped, by the way, let me put it first, but you always have to look ahead. I therefore have a few questions for the Minister. Would the Minister like to give a critical reflection on the progress of the legislative proposal? How could we possibly do better in the future? Why, for example, did the Minister not ask the Chamber to have this bill dealt with as a matter of urgency before the municipalities proceed to payout? For example, I have seen this recently at the KLM. I complimented you on that at the time. It happened very quickly then, but we did it that way. So I'd say, let's learn from this for the future. I see someone's trying to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u17	I think you're almost at the end of your speech, so maybe you can...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u18	Yeah, I'm almost at the end. I've got one more block on the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u19	I shall then give the floor to Mr De Kort of the VVD first.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u20	The SGP asks constitutional questions. Of course, that is how we know the SGP. Mr Stoffer asked the same question that I also wanted to ask the cabinet. This has happened in a special way. At the same time, it also had to happen quickly, because the minima were really in acute trouble. I am curious to see how the SGP itself sees how it can be carefully regulated by state law, while at the same time monitoring speed.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u21	It is good that this question is being asked, so I can emphasise it even more. I was still at the KLM. That's what Minister Kaag, the finance minister, just came up with right away. Of course we have a bit beeped and cracked, but it came in and the next Monday we dealt with it. So maybe that's the way it could be. Maybe there's other ways to do it. That's a bit of a search, because I understand that it has to be done in a short space of time. I have also made it very clear that it is a good thing that we have helped the people. After all, we could have helped people better than we should have said afterwards: we have done everything well in terms of procedures, but people have not been helped in the end. However, you have to stay sharp with each other that this is not going to be a common sense. So I'd say if we could, we'd have to deal with it as quickly as possible. I think we are often open to that as a room. Quite sometimes it is necessary to mention this explicitly with each other. You must let people go for the procedures, the rules, the law and so on.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u22	Thank you. You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u23	Then I'll look a little further into the future. A lot of people are watching their energy contract come to an end. Energy prices are rising even faster. We know that the energy market is very difficult to predict. I didn't think we'd be here right now to talk about the energy market. But standardisation is most likely not yet in sight. That is why the next question. How does the government intend to deal with the increased energy prices in the future, which will affect the people on a limited stock exchange? In addition to energy prices, rising energy taxes and rising prices are also well documented as a result of climate action. A mandatory heat pump, an emission trading system, built environment: that of course all adds up. If you have a lot of money, it doesn't matter, but there are a lot of people there, we're talking about this bill on "none's gonna be able to add up, just count down." My question is: do we have an adequate picture of what this accumulation will mean in the short and longer term for the affordability of the energy account of households with a limited budget? If we do not yet have that in view, can the cabinet give an insight into this before the budget is dealt with? We have now opted for a number of occasional measures. Very understandable. I also understand the way in which we have carried it out. For the future, however, the SGP would like us not to re-establish new compensatory measures, but to create a well-thought-out purchasing power policy, particularly with regard to lower incomes and middle incomes. Mr President, I shall leave it at that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u24	Thank you, Mr. Stoffer. I give the floor to Mr Eerdmans, JA21.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u25	Mr. Chairman. Good afternoon, I also say to the listeners here on the spot. I hear a lot of poignant stories from colleagues. They rightly mention it, I think. It colors the world of today. All the examples mentioned are: huge inflation, high costs, high prices and almost priceless fuel for many. It gets millions of people in trouble, and pretty hard. According to the Central Planning Bureau, 1.2 million households are affected by financial problems. The people are going to postpone basic expenses, for example buying new clothes or the necessary maintenance to their home. And if that doesn't work anymore, they'll end up with their savings, which will be absorbed. For 350 000 households, they've been through that after three months. Other groups may last a little longer, but they too are going to be in big trouble in the foreseeable future. Mr. Chairman. The Nibud provides an even blacker scenario and already has 2.5 million households in financial difficulties. One invests his savings and cuts even further, for example on groceries and energy, and the other comes into serious payment problems, according to the director, our former colleague, Vliegenthart. Energy companies themselves also clearly experience an increase in customers with payment problems. Automatic collections fail because people don't have enough money in their accounts. We believe that this problem will only increase as a result of the expiry of fixed contracts after too low a month's pay, which means that there will be considerable post-taxation at the end of the year. I also read today that the €500 autumn bonus proposed by the PvdA and GroenLinks will not be paid. So those groups are gonna feel it extra. It is a prosperous country unworthy that for millions of people energy seems to be a luxury product. People have to choose between paying the energy bill or doing groceries. Then it is clear that something had to happen and that there was a hurry. The cabinet came with the first increase on 10 December, after the previous purchasing power package of 3.2 billion euros provided a one-off energy surcharge of €200. On March 11 the amount was €800 and four days later the bill we are talking about came out. In addition, they mention €200, but there will be an addition to the Gemeentefonds, which ultimately puts the target group at about 800,000 inhabitants. It is therefore a legislative amendment which has been in force for a long time. Of course, sometimes need breaks the law. We understand that there is a need for haste, but both the process and the law do have the necessary hooks and eyes. I thought I'd stop by and see him. I will then come to the block, I assume, of course, that it will be a block with the Minister for Implementation. That cube runs pretty hard and hard. Those who, for example, do not receive welfare benefits, and therefore do not receive the money automatically, but have to apply for it, are often faced with major delays in handling their application. Many right holders are not reached at all. These are people who are not in the municipal systems, often working poor people, which makes it even more acidic. For people who are reached, the huge paper shop is often another stumbling block, as this week a tour of RTL News has shown along a number of large municipalities. Municipalities themselves indicate that a great deal of regular work remains to be done as a result of the bureaucratic pressure generated by the energy surcharge. It is therefore not surprising that municipalities indicate that a measure from the Empire would have been a much better solution, as the Minister also indicated in her letter of 23 June. The Empire now entrusts municipalities with the execution, but in fact let them struggle, let them advance money and provide them with short pieces of information, especially at the beginning of the process. While the minister publicly announced that municipalities could start paying out, the same municipalities sometimes had no idea how and to whom. Does the Minister think that the great uncertainty which emerged in March has had a restrictive effect on the scope of this regulation? Then a tour of municipal websites confirms the confusing picture surrounding this scheme. Of course, municipalities have the freedom to pay more than €800 or to extend the scheme to groups with an income above 120%, 130%, 140%. But also things that should be uniform are different. I went Google once. In one municipality, such as Venlo, the entitlement to an energy surcharge is determined on the basis of pay slips of January and February. In another municipality, for example Rotterdam, only the net income of January applies. In another municipality, for example Utrecht, we are talking about the net income from one of the months of January to July. Or that from January to June, as in Groningen. In Haarlem this is the last paycheck for submitting the application. In Arnhem they want to know your net income again in the month of the application itself. This is a national scheme which is implemented by municipalities only. But why is it so uncoherent? Of course there are groups that are excluded from any scheme, but it has already been said that the students are really screwed with this scheme. They are excluded. You see a lot of criticism about that. It is indeed a question of the various housing situations as grounds for exclusion. I think those questions are well asked, so I'll skip that block, but I'd like a response. Do you recognise that this diverse housing situation applies to many more groups? What are the total estimated costs if students are entitled to and are entitled to this energy surcharge? Mr. Chairman. We also see a more fundamental problem in the regulation. That's the limit of $800. A few euros difference in income can just mean the difference between €800 or nothing at all, with the result that the group of Dutch workers with a relatively low income can also be excluded. But that's the group that gets up every morning to go to work and get a modest salary. Does the Minister therefore recognise that if municipalities would apply 120%, then that scheme is yet another which will make people say: what am I still doing, why am I still going to work? Mr. Chairman. I'm coming to a conclusion. So the financial misery is not confined to the lowest incomes, that is our point. The Nibud indicates that even middle incomes are getting harder and harder to live. The middle class, the backbone of our healthy society, is also about to collapse. I therefore think it is irresponsible that, despite the announcement in the spring note, Mr Kaag did not come up with additional purchasing power repairs for the middle class, the people with one or two modes. As far as JA21 is concerned, this is because we do not really come up with serious relief instead of pumping tax money around. Because that is the essence of what we are actually talking about today: why can't people pay the bill? Because the earning model is that we ask people for huge buffers to pay their money to the state treasury. They have no buffer all these years because they had to make those costs. Among other things, the energy bill has been artificially high for years; as you know, more than half of the energy bill consists of taxes. Energy taxes, ODE and also VAT: increased several times. This leads to a total amount, which is now rising, including inflation and rising prices, to a financial noose around the neck of not only the lowest incomes but certainly also the middle class. Mr President, concluding. For JA21 burden relief is therefore the best purchasing power repair. No symptom control and lap agents, but respect the principle that one's income is actually his or hers and is not a milk cow for the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u26	Thank you, Mr. Eerdmans. Then I give the floor to Mr Léon de Jong of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u27	Mr. Chairman. People don't make it anymore. They see prices rise every day. This creates huge financial problems within households. Life has simply become priceless. The rent, the gas and the groceries: priceless. The groceries have become 15% more expensive in nine months. People run stressed through the supermarket, with a calculator in their head all the time. Can I still afford it? Can I pay for it in a month? Stress. And of course the energy bill, the total uncertainty where the price increases are going. People who had a good life until recently and had reasonable control are now also financially uncertain. Can I still live in my house? Can I still let my children work out and give them the training they want? Older people, retired people who don't like it anymore. They've worked hard their whole lives and are now retired, but instead of a carefree old age, they have to live in stress. Can't eat a hot meal every day. Let the stove out. No more celebrating a birthday with the grandchildren. Simply because all this has become too expensive. There are even elderly people who tell us that they no longer feel like it, that they no longer feel like it in life. It's really horrible. How could it have come to this? Mr. Chairman. So ordinary life has become an unprecedented luxury. How much this cabinet wants us to believe that this is all because of the war in Ukraine, how much this cabinet is calling the war in Ukraine in every debate and in every letter to the Chamber to justify why it does not come up with higher compensation, even in the very first letter from the cabinet, from March, the very first sentence about Ukraine was going to make us believe that it is the situation in Ukraine that brought us into this situation, of course, it is not right. It removes the responsibility of the political action of this cabinet. Because, of course, it's just a political choice, a political choice not to compensate any more than is happening now, when it's so badly needed. For years, purchasing power has fallen dramatically behind economic growth. For years, wages have been lagging behind prices. Food banks have been growing for years. For years, there have been more than 1 million people with problematic debts. Last year we knew that about 50% of the people are financially vulnerable, that a quarter of the tenants are financially trapped and that at least 12% of the households are very difficult to live by. And it's only gotten worse. All signals are red. According to TNO, at least 630,000 people are already in energy poverty. Those are pre-war figures. Earlier, a poll by EenVandaag indicated that 42% of the Dutch expect further financial problems. That is not because of the war, but that is the long-term reality. In December, we discussed the highest inflation rates in 40 years, months before the war. Mr. Chairman. The Dutch are making massive cuts. They are forced to do less shopping, leave the car standing and simply turn off the stove, simply because it is no longer affordable. It is terrible and a prosperous country unworthy. We've seen this coming for a lot of years, but it's all come to some sort of boiling point. But this cabinet had other priorities, such as EUR 100 billion for nonsensical climate and nitrogen policies. There's always enough money for that. That is exactly what I mean when I talk about political choices: there are billions going into nitrogen policy, but our own people can simply suffocate financially. But we could ease people's pain directly, for example by temporarily putting VAT on energy at 0%, or temporarily putting VAT on messages at 0%, so that the messages become cheaper. And just put the fuel taxes at 0%. That really saves a lot of money on the pump. At least once more people can drive a car normally. People notice that directly in their wallet. But last week the Chamber voted massively against these proposals. That's just how the minister can do it. So she can pretend that the package that is now before her is really going to help and act like she's really doing everything that's in her power. Meanwhile, our own people are impoverished and security of existence is turned upside down. As the Prime Minister pointed out earlier, and as the Minister also pointed out in her letter, we are all getting poorer. Deal with it, is the message. This also happened in the media. I quote Minister Van Gennip: "We all have less to spend. We're just getting poorer together. The strongest shoulders must bear the heaviest loads." It's really embarrassing. It is also easy to say by politicians in comfortable financial positions. It causes people to feel abandoned and no longer have faith in politics. And blame them. You really get the feeling that politicians have no idea what financial disaster is happening within families. Mr. Chairman. The energy surcharge is too low. That is why my group chairman, Geert Wilders, has tabled an amendment to increase the one-off energy surcharge of €800 per 1 July by an additional €400 to €1,200. This is an effective way to support lower-income households that are vulnerable to financial problems. The costs associated with the increase are estimated at EUR 320 million. Cover must be found in the funds of the nitrogen fund and climate fund. Mr. Chairman. We also realise, of course, that this cannot be the end of it. That is why we have also tabled amendments to increase the AOW meeting and, of course, to reduce social rents by 10%. Mr. Chairman. I sincerely hope that the House will not again make the same capital mistake in voting against these amendments. I very much hope that this Minister will see that things have to be different and can be different, that we really must prevent people from getting deeper into debt and becoming even deeper into poverty. We need to make sure that life just becomes more affordable again and that the pain is really softened. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u28	Thank you. If I am correct, the amendments were tabled by Mr Wilders to the Spring Paper.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u29	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u30	We shall continue this debate on Tuesday. Then I give the floor to Mrs Podt of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u31	Mr. Chairman. We are going through a turbulent time with the Netherlands and Europe. War rages on our continent. We all notice the consequences, including in a much higher energy bill. For many low-income Dutch people, this means that they are immediately in trouble. There is therefore a wide range of measures to alleviate pain, including the €800 energy surcharge for low-income households. At the start of this scheme it was indicated that this law should be treated as a matter of urgency, because people need the money earlier yesterday than today. In my view, that is the most important question of this debate: will this money be soon enough for the people who are entitled to it? Mr. Chairman. We know that half of the energy surcharge has not yet been paid in large cities. Does the Minister have any idea how many applications have been received and how many have already been paid nationally? In the letter we read that many channels are used to get in touch with people. Is it also looking at groups outside the regular target groups of the municipalities and is it taking into account foreign speakers? And are there any examples of municipalities going proactively into the neighbourhoods to inform people about the surcharge and the possibilities for sustainability? The energy surcharge may be paid until the end of the year. Is it possible to extend this deadline if it appears that a lot of money has remained on the shelf towards the end of the year? Because let me be clear: this money needs to be used up. I want us to spend every euro on the households that are having a hard time, so I also call on the municipalities to do something about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u32	I have a question for Mrs Podt. Mrs Podt says that the big question of this debate is whether the money will come soon enough. I have just seen Mrs Podt listen carefully to all her colleagues. I think we can distill from that that the big question is: is it enough? But Mrs Podt points out that the big question is: will it be soon enough? Does Mrs Podt agree with us that €800 is not enough?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u33	I think that's a good question. I think we can see that this amount is, of course, not enough in itself. That is why I am referring to a wide range of other measures. I think there is no one in this room who thinks this €800 will solve the problem for everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u34	Many colleagues have referred in their contributions to the broad package, but have also said that the increase in the minimum wage is not fast enough and that the other measures are not going fast enough either. Are there any proposals that Mrs Podt is going to make today, or is she going to sign up for, for example, the idea of compensating for these students and providing an additional supplement, so that we are actually going to solve this problem?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u35	I'm going to talk about students in a minute, so I'm sure we can discuss that a little bit further. But I think it is important that we talk today mainly about the implementation of this law. I recognise immediately that we are still having a lot of discussions about a broader purchasing power package, especially for the group we are talking about today, the people who really have low incomes. But I think that is also the reason why we stopped the Spring debate for a moment, namely to see what options there are. We will continue with this next week and I think that conversation will continue there as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u36	With regard to this spring debate, we must read that the cabinet has decided not to do anything additional, even if this proposal for an additional €500 grant is concerned. Mrs Podt says that we are also taking other measures. The Central Planning Office has very clearly concluded that with all the existing policies we have now put in place, including those additional measures, hundreds of thousands of households are still declining. Those people can only pay their bills, can't do anything fun in life and sometimes even end up in debt. What does D66 offer these people?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u37	I think it's important to say, and I think it's fair to say that we can't do everything for everyone. The conclusion was that a lot of people will go backwards. It is; that is the honest story. That's very bad, but that's just what it is. I think we should focus on the people who need it the most. That's what we're talking about today, among other things. This is also the conclusion that that is not enough. About the message that appeared today, I was very surprised. I thought it was a wonderful message, too. It said that GroenLinks and the PvdA say that the cabinet is not going to do something. The last time I checked they were not in the cabinet. So I'm really curious where it came from. I don't know it yet, but I'm very curious. Like I said, we've done a few things. VAT has fallen, energy taxation has fallen and excise duties have fallen. A number of things have happened. The conclusion is right: it is not enough. That's what we're gonna talk about next week. Today we are going to talk about how we can implement this arrangement as best we can.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u38	Of course, to what extent that is true, we would like to hear from the government in a moment; that question has been asked, even today. We cannot help everyone and we must help the most vulnerable people, Mrs Podt says. Those hundreds of thousands of households are those most vulnerable people. When we talk about the implementation of a bill that the Central Planning Bureau says is not enough, I think it is relevant to take responsibility as a parliament to say to the government: this is not enough; there must be more to help those people, because those people are about to die. My question is: why is Mrs Podt not prepared to do so? You only want to talk about implementing things and technical things, but you must, of course, also assess a legislative proposal as to whether it is enough, and it is not.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u39	No, I think I have admitted in all honesty that this amount in itself will not be enough for many people. Today, however, we are talking about this law. So we will also have to talk to each other about this broader purchasing power, because this law is just about this amount now. I think we can also see together that we are not here only with compensation now, at the moment, but that is not today's conversation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u40	D66 says: the amount is not enough; what the cabinet has come up with is not enough. Where are the amendments? Then where's the D66 proposal? And where is the vote to improve this at the moment when there are proposals, for example by temporarily reducing energy to 0%, by temporarily reducing VAT on messages or by temporarily setting fuel taxes to 0%? D66 simply voted against all these proposals, and you even say at the end of the journey that this proposal too is not enough. Then where are your own proposals to compensate and increase that amount?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u41	Mr President, once again. I'm repeating myself, I'm afraid. I think it is important to examine with each other the possibilities we have to compensate other groups. I also recognise that this is necessary, but that is not today's debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u42	That is certainly today's debate. If D66, a coalition party, is not even going to give in here in the Chamber, but so to speak, proactively indicate that it is too little and then comes up with nothing at all, then that has to do with political choices. At the same time, EUR 100 billion has been released for climate and nitrogen. You do not say: let us put that on hold for a while at least, and we want to spend all that money on the people who need it now. Then why doesn't D66 do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u43	This is indeed a big difference between D66 and the PVV. D66 is also looking at the long term, and in the long term it is very wise that we all invest to ensure that we become independent of gas from Russia, so that we do not end up in this situation again.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u44	Look, Chairman, now the monkey's coming out of the sleeve. So D66 would rather have 100 billion euros on the shelf for climate and nitrogen than that D66 today to all those hard-working people at home who don't make it, says... 'Cause those people are there. Those are people who work hard and therefore are not in a benefit situation, but just not making it. There are also people who belong to the social minimum. They're definitely not gonna make it. Those people, like our older people who can't make it, need to be told: we, like D66, prefer to keep that 100 billion for nitrogen and climate rather than we will compensate you. That is therefore a political choice. If you can do that today, you're not prepared to help those people at all. Then you are only dealing with nitrogen and problems that people are not waiting for at all. You'll be abandoning millions of people hard and hard. You should be ashamed of that, I say through the President to Mrs Podt of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u45	Again, I don't think I'm saying at all that we're not gonna compensate people. I think I'm saying above all that we're picking two tracks. On the one hand, that is what we are talking about today, namely compensation in the very short term. That's an occasional issue. In addition, we talk about a lot of other things to see what opportunities we have to help people. We are also looking at the long term, for example by looking at the climate and ensuring that people eventually become independent of that gas.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u46	Last time I checked was Mrs Podt MP. And last time I checked, in March, a colleague of hers, Mr Van Weyenberg, also expressed these words. We are very concerned about the people around the Modal. That's a real problem. There's got to be something extra. We are now in this debate with the law now before us. I see all kinds of D66 council members are worried about students. I hear D66 saying: we worry about the group of people who don't get enough. My question to D66 is: do I conclude that you support extra money for students with the law that we are talking about today, and is it true that you also support giving municipalities financial space to finance up to 130?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u47	I find this complicated, because I told you, I'm gonna be a student in a minute. I'm really gonna say something about that, so let's talk about it for a while. I would also like to look at all kinds of proposals, as I have said before. But, as I said, I also admit that we can't do everything. I think we had a discussion earlier this week about what is the most effective way to help people in welfare. That's what it was about at the time. I think that conversation goes for this, too. We always just have to see what's the best way to make sure we use the money we have as best we can. And then I wonder if that's the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u48	I haven't been a Member of Parliament very long, but I am a Member of Parliament long enough to know that the trick "wait, because soon, later, we're going to talk about it; this is not the time" cabinet-wall or whatever you want to call it. I just asked a question. Is it true that D66 supports students getting money in this legal treatment because they can't make ends meet? What does my fellow chamber member think about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u49	Fine, I'll go ahead of my speech. It was one block away, but if Mrs Maatoug cannot curb her enthusiasm, I will do so now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u50	Perhaps it is a good idea for you to continue your speech. Then I'll give Mrs Maatoug the room to interrupt. Is that useful? Mrs Podt, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u51	I think Mr. Van Kent is still standing by. I don't know if that's about students, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u52	No, that's not about students. Then let's do it first. Thank you for your cooperation, Mrs Podt. I give the floor to Mr Van Kent, and then you will continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u53	No, what D66 has to say about students, let's wait and see. I have a question about the gentleman in Nissewaard I mentioned. He had an energy bill of €140. It's gone up to €320. We're talking about the energy bill and the compensation. This man is not eligible for this, because he has an income higher than 150% of the minimum wage. What's D66's message to this gentleman?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u54	Of course, the SP isn't the only one who has contact with a lot of people who are having a hard time right now, because I have conversations like that with people too. In the explanatory memorandum of the law, we have also been able to read that if people are just out of the way, we will have to see if, for example, municipalities can solve this through individual special assistance. I hope that's possible. It is also in my text, but I hope that we can see if it will make it. I think that's the answer. I also think that we are going to see more groups over the next few days, so let me take a look at the students who are outside the scheme. That's super frustrating, so we just need to see how we can still help people.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u55	I'm just trying to get this over with. She says: we are going to see more and more groups that are out of the boat and so we need to look carefully at measures that can work.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u56	No, no, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u57	This can't be D66's answer to this best man in Nissewaard, can it? That can't be the answer, can it? I asked you the following question. This man has an energy bill that has risen from €140 to €320. He can never not pay for the income he has. He has a modest income, but he is not eligible for compensation. What's D66's answer to this man?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u58	My point was that with every arrangement we make, we see people who are outside the limits of that arrangement. We talked about this for a long time on Monday. We need to do something about that. The answer to this is, of course, as much customization as possible. We just need to look where people can't keep their heads above water. Then how can we ensure that municipalities can assist these people as best they can? So the answer for that gentleman is...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u59	This isn't an answer, is it?!
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u60	Mind if I finish, too, Mr. Van Kent? The answer to that gentleman is indeed: go to that municipality and ask your municipality if the municipality can help you with individual special assistance. That is where the solution should lie, because then the municipality can see what the situation of that gentleman is and how he can best be supported.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u61	Finalizing, Mr. Van Kent.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u62	He's not gonna get it. So the answer of D66 is: figure it out! We have more and more people dealing with energy contracts that end. They have to pay hundreds of euros more a month. They're not gonna make it. And then the only thing D66 can say is: knock on the door of the congregation for charity. That is what D66 says, while people are not entitled to it at all and people, even with middle incomes, are in big trouble. It's gonna take a lot more than the cabinet's offering right now. I hope D66 has a better answer than what we just heard: we're gonna take a look, and knock on the door with the hat in hand. Because that's an insult to the people who are in big trouble right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u63	Thank you to Mr Van Kent for saying it again, because that gave me time to think about this for a moment. I understood that this was someone who was just outside the scheme. So I didn't get that right. I fully agree with Mr Van Kent that we need to look at how we can ensure that these different income groups are given the best possible help. I think that's being done now. That is the reason why, of course, we stopped with the Spring Note. Again, we can't do everything for everyone, but we all see people, even with modal incomes, getting into trouble. I believe that all kinds of solutions have been put on the table. Things have been done, too. I would like to mention once again the reduction of VAT, the reduction of energy taxes and the reduction of excise duties. And next week there will be further discussion of purchasing power measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u64	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u65	This is a different answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u66	That's right. It is indeed a different answer. Because I had just misunderstood him.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u67	If you have any other reaction than just now, you may still respond, Mr. Van Kent.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u68	Now the answer is, let's go check it out. Now that is the answer, while all those people who are following this debate have to do with these huge price increases. They want costs to go down and income to go up.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u69	And what's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u70	Now D66's answer is, let's go check it out. That is, of course, totally inadequate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u71	Oh, not a question, just a remark.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u72	I believe that, as with many of these regulations, it is about speed. That is what today's arrangement is about: fast €800, equal. In addition, we need to look more broadly, in the longer term, at how we can improve people's purchasing power.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u73	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u74	I'm going on. There's gonna be a very small block about simple procedures and then I'm really gonna get to those students. Mr. Chairman. Part of the target group has to apply for the energy surcharge from the municipality itself. Municipalities are themselves responsible for setting up this process. That wasn't done right anywhere. I have a few questions about the execution. Do all the municipalities now have their application process in order? Does the Minister recognise the view that in some municipalities the thresholds for applications are very high? If people can only apply for the supplement via complicated apps with a DigiD and if they can't call, that's impossible for many people. Is this discussed with municipalities? I understand that some municipalities also request evidence, for example an energy contract. Can municipalities impose such additional conditions on the payment of the energy surcharge? The procedure should be as simple as possible. After all, people often have enough trouble finding the canals of the municipality. Mr. Chairman. With this energy surcharge, we try to reach as many households as possible with payment problems. At the same time, there are limits to who is eligible for the category benefit. That's how students are excluded from this. That's been said. To some extent, I understand that. For students with payment problems, individual special assistance is a more appropriate instrument, but they should be able to make good use of it. Students are often excluded, as has been said for a short while, while some of them are relatively normal households. The relevant question ultimately is whether a low-income household is faced with a particularly high energy bill. Does the Minister have any idea how many students are experiencing payment problems as a result of the increased energy bill? How many have reported to municipalities for special assistance? What has been done to point out this possibility to students? Because now the picture has arisen that students do not have the right to support a high energy bill. As a result, we run the risk that students will not report at all. We have to prevent that. So I also appeal to student cities: give your students a helping hand if they need it; make the procedure for applying for that energy surcharge as simple as possible. For D66 it is central that students who need it are also helped, only through another jar. I do get sounds that students need to borrow to the maximum before they would be entitled to that individual education allowance. Is that correct, I ask the Minister, and does she agree with me that that is not the intention? The budget for individual special assistance is not infinite either, but it is often referred to as a solution for those who need customization. I would urge the Minister to keep an eye on municipalities, especially those with a large student population, where potentially many people call for individual special assistance. Talk to them when the budget's running out. I'd like a commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u75	This is the last thing about the students?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u76	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u77	I promised Mrs Maatoug I would be the first to interrupt her, but I give the floor to Mrs Kathmann of the PvdA. Well, that's nice of Mrs Maatoug.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u78	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have a question about special assistance. I have just referred to it in my speech. For a city like Utrecht, it is an extra 25 million euros, when students come in. I also asked the question at the time: where should municipalities pay for this? Should we, for example, cut back on child care? I would very much like to hear from D66 where they think that a city like Utrecht, like all the other student cities, should get that money from, for God's sake.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u79	I do welcome this question, because I think we need to correct it. Of course, the 25 million will only apply if all students get the same money. I hope Mrs Kathmann agrees with me that this should not apply to all students. I would also like to ask the following question. In the answer so far from the cabinet, we have been told that municipalities do not yet report themselves to indicate that they are in trouble. That is why I ask the Minister: look very carefully at it and keep the finger on the wrist. Because once again, it's just important that we help the students who don't make it and who get into trouble because of this. I don't care if it comes from another jar, but it has to be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u80	I already asked my question, so I thought the answer would come. It's unclear to me now. Does D66 support the proposals?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u81	Then Mrs Maatoug must forgive me for a moment: can she repeat the proposal again?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u82	Student cities, municipalities with many students, say: very nice, Rich, that you are sending us another kind of generic measure and say "there is an exception with another pot, but then you have to pay it off elsewhere," but we are not getting around, so we find it quite exciting: help us. The question is the following: I have heard several colleagues say that they are asking the Minister that question. Does D66 agree that we should say, just as we said before, "Budget is not the problem; it is ready. Make sure you help the people who need help. We, as House of Representatives, stand behind you, congregations. That money's all taken care of, including for students. That's in the estimate, that's what we're adding." Does D66 support that proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u83	No, not like this. I can imagine cities are thrilled. I've also spoken a lot lately, many student cities as well. But I'm not gonna say in front: let's compensate municipalities for something that might happen. So let's just keep that finger on the wrist. Let's have that conversation with each other, because I think that's the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u84	This is nice; this is just a good answer. I completely disagree with that, but that is a very clear answer. I have a follow-up question. Does D66 say: we find it worse that we accidentally spend a few tens of millions too much than we don't help students?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u85	I don't quite understand that question, in all honesty. Then what do we accidentally spend too much money on?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u86	The answer I get from D66 is: that goes us too fast, finger on the wrist and we look. Just for the people at home, we've been working on this subject for months. For months we have been worried about the wallet of different households, including students. So we're already doing that. Then I hear D66 say, "No, that's too fast for us. We're not just gonna guarantee that money. We do not, because there is a concern that you may spend too much money or reserve too much." In conclusion, I would like to say that it is a little long, but I hope that it is clear after this that you will say: I think it is more important that I do not accidentally spend or reserve a little too much money than that all students who need help should be helped.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u87	No, what Mrs Maatoug is doing now is too easy. I have made it clear that I think it is very important that all students who need it should be helped, but I think that Mrs Maatoug should also agree with me that we should ensure targeted measures and that we should not spend money that we should, of course, be spending on all those groups that are also being mentioned here today, who are going to have trouble keeping up their pants.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u88	Mrs Maatoug, finally. And then Mr Van Baarle. I'll let you think about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u89	Yes, I do. There are so many questions to ask. My last question is this. I've been looking in a few guesses for the past couple of years. Then I see passionate D66 fractions. They say, especially in student cities, where many students voted for D66: do something. And then I see cool aldermen and councilmen saying, "We're gonna tell The Hague." And then we are standing here in The Hague and I am facing a colleague, whom I respect very much and whom I also know as a good councilman in Utrecht, and then she is just sitting here right now. I find that very unfortunate, because I had hoped that we were on the same side to say: I do not think the problem is bad enough. Because when you talk to people, it turns out 10% has a one-room house. Students are in bad homes and they don't make ends meet. The same energy bill we all pay, they pay. They have low incomes and parents don't support it. What does D66 say? We're holding a finger on the wrist. I'm really sorry about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u90	Now Mrs Maatoug is making a persiflage of what I have said. Let's face it, 50% of students live at home. A very large part of the students live in dormitory houses. I've lived in a dorm with 18 people, including us. If things were to be like Mrs Maatoug's proposal, you'd get thousands of euros for such a dorm. I would have liked that as a student, but I don't think that's the point. So let's spend the money where it needs to be spent. You will hear me say again: let us make sure that students who need it get it. That's what I'm looking at the Minister for. That's the same question I'm asking the Minister. But what I find problematic about the way this is done now is that it is also portrayed outside the picture that students would not be helped. Then we also leave behind the image that students should not knock on the door of the municipality. I'm sorry about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u91	I am really wondering why Mrs Podt, on behalf of D66, is so desperate for Dutch students. Mrs Podt says here that all students who need it must be helped, but comes up with nothing. She just doesn't come up with anything. Municipalities indicate: we do want to help these students, but we do not have the means to do so. Now it is said in great words'students who need it must be helped', but then the municipalities who want to do so do not get the money. So it's hollow phrases.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u92	And your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u93	Two. Why does D66 continue to support this exception? Why does D66 continue to support this government excluding students? Why does the advice remain: do not give the energy surcharge? Why are you dipping students with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u94	What is now being said is not entirely correct. The bill contains EUR 54 million for implementation and special assistance. This is explicitly stated in the proposal. Let's see how this goes. I ask the Minister to keep his finger on the pulse, especially in the cities with a lot of students. We all agree that we want students who need it to be compensated.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u95	Mr. Van Baarle... Oh, sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u96	And so I think it is important that students form a different category, not because I don't want to give this to students, but because I think we should spend this money for the students who really need it. Like I said, not all students.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u97	But now students are excluded from the category. That's the practice. Mrs Podt rightly points out that there are a lot of students who do need this energy allowance. But what is the practice? There is an advice from the VNG that the government takes over: excluding students categoral. Is Mrs Podt prepared to abolish this category exclusion from the rules, to be removed from the opinion? That's one. Two: does Mrs Podt share the observation that referring students to that special assistance is a bit of a flop? In practice, this special assistance is subject to much higher demands than that energy grant, which very often prevents students who need it from receiving it. What is Mrs Podt's reaction to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u98	Students are excluded from the energy surcharge, but they are not excluded from the individual special assistance. It is important, and let us keep repeating this with each other in particular, that students who are in trouble go to the municipality to ask. I think that's very important. What would happen when we didn't do that and say: we don't separate students anymore? Then all students would be entitled to this money and I don't think that's the intention. I hear Mr Van Baarle saying no, but I do. That is what this regulation is all about. So it's choosing or sharing. Once again, I believe that we must ensure that the money ends up where it should end up, and then you will find me by your side when you say that it goes to those students who are having a hard time and we must ensure that they can keep their heads above water.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u99	I was just talking about the word "periflage." I would also like to ask D66, because all our input is being persifled. We are also reading pieces, we are also hearing signals and we are standing here for those 10% students. This was just said literally: 10%. It does not say: support all students and anyone who is fine. It's about 10% of the students who are in trouble. I found it very strange that D66 indicated that the signals that municipalities have no money for that are not there at all. Municipalities have been saying there's no money for years. All council members in the Netherlands are on the banks. Aldermen are on the banks. I don't know which pigeon this cabinet is waiting for for these signals, but they're everywhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u100	Your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u101	My question has been asked several times. There is a group of students in trouble and it is said that the special assistance spot reserved for them is not sufficient. Does D66 support all proposals to ensure that there is guaranteed money from The Hague to help that group, to the left or to the right?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u102	Again, I'm going to take a good look at all the proposals. I've got some myself. I think it is good to stress that I do not think it is wise to say in the front: municipalities, here you have a bag of money and then we will see. It is precisely because this money also has money for this special assistance. Let's see if that's enough. Let's keep a close eye on that and then move on from there.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u103	Let me see if there are any new questions, or else I'm afraid we're going to repeat too much. Do you have another question? Yes. Mr Van Kent, SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u104	Oh, yeah. I was arguing for a moment because I heard Mrs Podt say that she also has different ideas and proposals for this. I'm curious to know what these proposals are for these students to solve.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u105	I want to hear from the Minister how she looks at it, but I think it is very important that we monitor it very carefully and, in particular, look closely at cities with a lot of students. I want the Minister to talk to these municipalities so that we can make sure that this remains feasible.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u106	This is already happening throughout the debate. If we ask a question in the vein of "what are we going to do?', follow words like "monitors," "finger on the wrist" and "we're gonna look." People weren't helped with that. People are in financial need now. Those students who would also like to be eligible for this supplement, you might also see it as a general support for the steep rise in prices and not necessarily linked to the energy bill, and all the people who are following this debate, want to hear from D66 what is going to happen for them. Those people are only told that they are being watched and monitored. There are zero proposals to solve these people's problems.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u107	I think we're gonna repeat ourselves a little bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u108	Yeah, we're gonna go over it a little bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u109	Then let me say again: the individual special assistance is there for those students. Let's please carry that out with each other. If we give the impression here that students are not entitled to anything, they are not going to the municipality either.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u110	Once again, let me look at the Members to see if they have any new questions. Do you really have a question, Mr. Van Kent, or more of a comment? You have already had time to make a lot of comments, so I am going to the other colleagues.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u111	I've been asking D66 a question all along. There's a D66 MP here in the debate on the massive price increases. I've tried a few times to hear from D66 what they're going to do for the people who are in big trouble. I can't get an answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u112	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u113	If that student knocks on the door of the municipality and it has to come from special assistance, do you think the government should guarantee that the municipalities get that money to help those students?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u114	I've just said it a few times.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u115	I agree with you. Let's stop all of us from asking the same questions. That's a bit of a waste. I'm just gonna take a look at the colleagues.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u116	That's your role, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u117	I'm trying to avoid repetition. That's my part, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u118	Yeah, I'm trying to get an answer to the question: what's D66 gonna do?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u119	But Mrs Podt is talking about her own answers. Mr Léon de Jong, PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u120	I have a procedural question for Mrs Podt of D66. We have a proposal on the energy surcharge. Is Mrs Podt of D66 today going to be adding additional resources to the proposal put forward by the cabinet, given the problems raised by the Chamber when it comes to students, the elderly, hard-working people who do not make it and people around the minimum social level?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u121	No. As I have already indicated, we are talking today about the €800 that is now going to the people. Next week and after the summer, we will discuss all kinds of purchasing power measures that are still coming.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u122	Thank you very much for the answer. The image was different all the time. The picture was: there will be proposals, I made proposals today. None of that happened. D66 says today: we come up with nothing at all. I therefore conclude that D66 does not see the urgency at all today and that it would rather throw 100 billion away into climate and nitrogen instead of really helping people. You're abandoning them like hell. We need help today. You're gonna choke on them and you're not gonna do anything about it. That's a disgrace towards that group of people. Unfortunately.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u123	I will leave that to Mr De Jong.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u124	The bill has a right to benefits, but there is no obligation whatsoever. You have no right in relation to your congregation. If your city doesn't do it, you've got nothing. The municipality of Dronten says: you get it if you have up to 110%. In Smallingerland it is 115%. Rotterdam is a bit more generous, it is at 140%. However, there is no obligation. D66 sends the students here to the municipality and says: ask. When the municipality says "we don't pay a penny," my question is: who are these students supposed to knock on at that time?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u125	I think a safe conclusion is that municipalities deal with this differently. I can imagine that sometimes it's frustrating for people, whether you're a student or someone else, if you get more or something else in another municipality. I was a councilman. Municipalities can decide this for themselves. That's the policy freedom that municipalities have. Municipal councils are always there. At the moment when city council members feel that things are not going well in their congregation, I hope they are making a point of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u126	If those city councils don't have the money or the resources, they can go up against the roof. Sometimes municipal councils have that to thank themselves.I would like to give my regards to everyone in Almere, but very often municipalities are poor. A number of Groningen municipalities in the earthquake area only reach 110%. Eemsdelta isn't getting any higher, it's not. There's nothing they can do about that. But I'll ask the question something else. We asked here: do something extra for students. As soon as the Tesla grant is exhausted, we get parliamentary questions from D66 every year. That's $3,350 for anyone who can buy an electric car. How come there are Chamber questions and if people can't get their messages, there's a D66 here that thinks: it can't? What exactly is the choice that is being made? It is said that we are going to do 71 million for Tesla subsidies this year, €2,000 for every second-hand electric car and €3,350 for every new electric car, we are going to pay 1.8 billion to the owners of coal power stations. That can always be done, but this cannot be done, while we really see in the CPB figures, but also in the individual e-mails that MPs receive, that it beeps and cracks.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u127	Firstly, as has already been said, there is 54 million in this special assistance plan for implementation. There's also some money for the poorer municipalities to move around. As I said, we will have to see how that finds its way. I find it difficult to respond to all the proposals mentioned by Mr Omtzigt. I don't think I said it can't be done. I said that we are going to talk today about the €800 energy surcharge. Now that's money, a little ugly. It's something that needed to be done as quickly as possible. In addition, there are still a lot of discussions about what we are going to do with purchasing power in the near future. I think you're part of that, too. But again, I do not think that is today's debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u128	The cabinet is right on one point: changing purchasing power in the middle of a year is quite difficult. Think about changing taxes: that's actually unfeasible. The energy surcharge is one of the few resources that can be used. That's what the Cabinet says, and I understand there aren't ten alternatives. However, we see an acute need. The CPB says 1.2 million households. Those are people who, if they cancel everything they can cancel, so cancel every day out, cancel every subscription that they can, still lack money and therefore have to cut back on food or energy, but probably both. Then you would think: given all the priorities we have in the Netherlands, would it help if the municipalities had some space? We also said this after the fall of the cabinet: there must be an opportunity for a hardness clause, to give municipalities some room for people who really can't do otherwise, because they are in an overpriced rental house, because they are in a totally unisolated rental house, because they are separated by mid-year, you name it. Those municipalities don't have the money. Is D66 prepared to look at how these municipalities can at least get some extra room for manoeuvre at that point, so that those cases, which we said after the fall of the cabinet that we should be able to deliver custom-made services, also get that money?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u129	I recognize the acute need that Mr Omtzigt sketches. I also think it's a good thing we're talking about that today. He sees the solution in space with the municipalities. I do not want to rule out that that would be a good option, but he himself indicates that it is complicated to do so halfway through the year. I think it is particularly complicated to land it with the people most affected. I think that's what we all want. That is why I say: let us do so in next week's debate. Then we can make an integral assessment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u130	Finally, Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u131	I'm afraid we're gonna say this law is closed next week. This law, as I began with my first question, gives entitlement to benefits and not the right to benefits. In this respect, it is quite different from family allowances or AOW, because they are entitled to them if they are met. From the energy surcharge, the municipality can determine whether you are entitled to it or not. Some municipalities do give the benefit to homeless people and others do not, some want to give something to students, others do not. The solution can be in two directions. Or you can tell the municipalities that they have to give a certain category and that there is a category of which they can know for themselves. The second solution is that we give the municipalities some extra financial resources, so they have some extra money available because we can't do that per person. Then we say: you get this pot special assistance and you pay back the money if you have not paid it to energy surcharges. Each municipality can then pay an extra charge of 0.5% of households and decide which people are entitled to it or need it most. Is D66 open to one of these two solutions? Or does D66 say we leave the law as it is and we just keep going?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u132	That is the easy part of what has been said before, but we are already implementing the law. You can find a lot of that, but I don't think it's very convenient to say in the meantime that we're going to do it in a different way. I think that some of the options outlined by Mr Omtzigt are interesting, but I think it would be good to look at it as a whole next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u133	Thank you. You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u134	I come with a new point. We're running the law. Most municipalities have paid the supplement to people with a minimum income, because they know that. They are, however, waiting for the other applications for the Chamber's treatment, especially for the special cases. That is why I mentioned these special cases in the hardness clause, because it is feasible, even at the moment. If I were to reduce amounts retroactively, it would be totally impossible; I agree with that. But it's executable. Would you like to think about that, for my part, you will return to it in the second term, so that the municipalities have ample scope to help people who really can't make it? Then a distinction can be made. Then a municipality can say: if you are lucky and if you have an energy contract that is certain, you will not get it, but if you have an energy contract that expires, then you will. That's not what we're gonna decide here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u135	As said, I like to look at all the proposals. I do not agree with Mr Omtzigt that it is so easy to do this halfway, because there are a lot of municipalities that have already paid it to all kinds of groups, including those that Mr Omtzigt just mentioned. So it seems problematic to me, but I like to look at it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u136	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u137	Good. Just a little bit more. Mr. Chairman. This energy surcharge is currently a major support for many households. But it's not a permanent solution to their problems. The energy crisis isn't over right away. Many low-income households live in a poorly isolated home. We must therefore continue to work on long-term solutions for these households, through investments in sustainability. Now that we get a good picture of the target group, what is being done to prevent high bills in the future? Do the instruments that are now being used for sustainability really reach out to this group, for example? Also here I ask: are students included? Isn't this the time to talk to student hostels about making student homes more sustainable? They are often old houses with single glass and an old resume. Students can't possibly make that investment on their own. Mr. Chairman. We have often said it to each other lately: we need to pay more attention to implementation. This scheme is also well implemented. We often look at the municipalities before that. It is therefore a good thing that extra money has been made available for the proper implementation of the scheme. Hopefully this will help to ensure that the money reaches the people who are entitled to it quickly. Let me repeat again: the money has to go up. Anyone who is entitled to it must find the way to the city. This calls for a proactive approach to municipalities, in cooperation with the Empire and all partners in the fight against poverty. I would therefore like to receive a further progress report from the Minister in Q3 on the payment of the energy surcharge, with figures on how many households have been reached and to what extent individual special assistance has been used.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u138	Thank you. I shall now give the floor to Mr Ceder, Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u139	Thank you. Mr. Chairman. Inflation has risen to unprecedented levels over the past year, mainly due to rising energy prices. The outgoing cabinet announced in December to allow a one-off energy surcharge for low-income households. A quick implementation was needed. I am therefore pleased that the cabinet has delivered. €800 is a significant amount for people with a narrow scholarship. It is not easy to find concrete solutions in exceptional times involving local authorities and to make a system that is also feasible. However, this arrangement has been successful. My compliments on that. In the end, we are dealing with this bill today, while the energy surcharge was paid to many citizens a long time ago. Not to many yet, but the scheme will run. This does not deserve the beauty prize for democratic control. However, I think that the government has made the right choice in view of the importance and the need to ensure that the money reaches the right people quickly. It has already been indicated, but I will say it again: full compensation cannot be achieved by the government. The energy we import is getting more expensive. This means that, as a Christian Union, we must prevent people with low incomes, specifically that group, from sinking through the ice. The question is whether the current regime is helping that group. Speed was needed and therefore you sometimes have to make choices that are less differentiated, but we do worry about whether the money has ended up with the people who needed it. The Christian Union also expects parties other than the government to play a role in this. The government has a role to play, but we are also looking at housing corporations when it comes to isolation, also towards the coming winter, and at employers and civil society organisations. They all have a responsibility to ensure that we get through this together.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u140	The fight against poverty is always high on the agenda of the Christian Union. They always come up with this in the campaigns during the elections. There is even now a minister for the fight against poverty. Does the Christian Union Group believe that this €800 is enough to fight poverty?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u141	I think the answer is no. But €900, €1,000, €1,100 or €1,200 occasionally will not be enough either. I might agree with the PVV that it's important to help people, but maybe we disagree that we can only expect that from the government. The government had to do something, and so have we. I repeat, the cabinet has allocated EUR 6 billion to reduce the burden. We have to pay back those burdens at some point. We need to push it through to society. We're doing everything we can. I think that's important, too. I have just indicated, and I repeat, that, as far as we are concerned, the greatest support really reaches the most vulnerable groups. I do wonder whether this arrangement, as well as any arrangements that might be made in the future, will reach those groups specifically. That's what I'm worried about.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u142	The answer is, of course, no. That says not only politics, but also all kinds of organisations of interest. It's just too little. The Christian Union says that €1,000 or €1,200 is not enough either, but it is still over €800. My point is this. The Christian Union says that EUR 6 billion has been spent, and that must come back in future generations. But you forget that EUR 100 billion has been released for climate and nitrogen. You did that last year. Back then, people were in a lot of trouble, but now they're really dealing with a huge crisis. Then why does the Christian Union not choose to let the story go around the nitrogen and take much more money from it to ensure that the vulnerable get it? But it's not just that. I also find it a bit annoying that this discussion is always being said: the most vulnerable. As if people who work, who have a family, who have to make ends meet at the end of the month and who can't do what they've always done, wouldn't be vulnerable. In other words, why doesn't the Christian Union just choose to spend that whole nitrogen budget on our own people?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u143	I am concerned about what has happened over the past few months. I have also heard many stories from people that the costs and burdens have become heavier. But the cabinet has taken steps. Excise duties have been reduced, as well as VAT on energy, and first it was €200 and then it has become €800. I think we should also look to the future. If this goes on like this, what does that mean? I expect some from the government, if I may be honest. What the PVV says, I don't think it's fair. You say get that money out of the nitrogen fund. Over the last few weeks and days we have had a huge debate, precisely because of the concerns I believe the PVV has shared. Can farmers still have a future? Can we still ensure a transition in a fair way? That's what money's reserved for. I don't think it's fair that you say, "Get the money out of it." With this, you are turning choices into other situations that we as a government have to deal with as well. I agree with you that we need to help people. You say everyone is vulnerable. Yes and no. Yes, everyone feels it, but as far as the Christian Union is concerned, we really need to look at the people who are now threatening to sink through the ice. As far as we are concerned, these are the people who have it less financially, but also, above all, those who live in a poorly isolated home. Those people feel the hardest, and that's what we want to focus on.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u144	Thank you. Finally, Mr Léon de Jong.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u145	It is really wrong to abuse the situation of farmers now in order to justify why we are not going to compensate enough people who have seen a huge purchasing power decline and who are no longer able to pay their energy bills. Pretending that the EUR 100 billion will reach our farmers so that they can all keep their farms, pretending to support the fact that the people who cannot pay their energy bills today cannot be compensated, is a gross lie. I therefore hope that the Christian Union will take that back. Then there's my last question. The Christian Union today simply opts for nitrogen and climate, for the EUR 100 billion and refuses to compensate the people who are now heading down, who cannot pay their rent now, who cannot pay their energy bill now, who cannot pay their groceries now, who cannot gas up in a normal way. You're gonna let those people down like hell. So I conclude that climate and nitrogen are more important than people's well-being. That's something to be ashamed of. But why does D66 do that? It is also largely about its own supporters.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u146	The Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u147	Why does the Christian Union do that? 'Cause you're really gonna let millions of people down hard and hard. What did I say?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u148	You said "D66."
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u149	Well, that's one pot of wet.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u150	It was the same question, by the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u151	I have just said that the cabinet has allocated 6 billion in several ways in a rather short time to reduce the burden. The energy surcharge was €200 first. We had a social and political debate on this and then it became €800. I have indicated to you that I am also concerned about the future. The CBS indicates that there may be 1.2 million people sinking through the ice. I believe that there is a task for the government to look closely at. I have also indicated to you that I expect that not only from the government. Because the group that is hit hardest today consists of people who are financially vulnerable, but who also live in poorly isolated homes. So the solution is also in residential insulation. And Mrs Podt has just said that you can see, for example, if you can do something for students, because winter is coming again. I therefore agree with you that we must help. However, I do think that you only place the emphasis on the government, and I do not think that is right. Or at least we disagree on that. But I insist that we really do what we can for those vulnerable.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u152	I have a question for the Christian Union. I can hear you repeatedly say that only the government is being looked at and that the Christian Union does not agree with the coverage proposed by Mr De Jong. Well, let's take another cover. Then we are going to pay it through all those companies that make very big profits, for example because the prices of the messages are so high. Then we're gonna get it out of there. There's really no one here who's just looking at the government. Take the corona crisis. Then we could have all of it pulled out, then a sum of 4 billion was nothing at all. And I can tell you that this crisis is equally serious. But we're not gonna do the same for the people now, again the people who are always at the bottom of the ladder. No, now we're gonna sit down first, we're gonna have sisters, six and sevens, and we're gonna be able to get it away from the profit tax. And now we're gonna pull everything out of the closet, just like we rightly did with the corona measures, to make sure those people don't sink through the ice. For both D66 and the Christian Union stand here to keep a story that we are going to wait. "Oh, we're gonna wait and see how many people drop right through the ice and then we're gonna have teams pull out and pull them out of that ice-cold water." But compared to the social cost of that, that 4 billion is a dime. My question to the Christian Union is: join in, rule is ahead, let's pull those people on dry land and not wait until they're in that ice-cold water. So is the Christian Union prepared to join in all those proposals that are before us today?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u153	I believe that the PvdA and the Christian Union agree to stand up for the most vulnerable and also share the urgency on this issue. You just quoted the corona crisis and said it was possible to spend a lot of money then. That's what happened. But we have also saved jobs for people so that they can pay the bill now. So that's a false contradiction. You also made the point that we need to do something now. I indicated at the beginning of my speech that this is an arrangement that is already under way and that I am critical of whether we have reached the people I want the money to go there. I believe that we share the same view on this point. But I'm critical of it. It's a generic measure. It had to be speedy, I get that, and I also think that was the right balance. But we must also look to the future. If the situation continues towards winter next year, I think the government should do something. But I don't think we should do the same thing you're proposing here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u154	Through the chairman, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u155	Sorry, Chairman. I understand the urgency. I think next week will be the follow-up to the Spring paper debate. There is also an August decision-making process. We don't know what the future will bring. But I also think: let's do this right. So I am holding on to my compliments towards the cabinet, but I also have a point of criticism. Do we reach out to the people who really want to reach a large part of this Chamber? And how can we do better towards the future? So in answer to your question: I think speed is important, but it's also worth a lot to me to actually see what's going on.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u156	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u157	Yes, Mr. Chairman, I will continue. As the Minister himself pointed out in her letter of 23 June, there are quite considerable differences in the implementation by municipalities; this has also been mentioned several times in this debate. However, these differences have declined since the cabinet made the funds available to the municipalities and the VNG has drawn up a directive. The choice for the municipalities was obvious in view of their existing responsibility with regard to poverty policy and the Participation Act, given the speed required. However, to what extent is it desirable that the implementation by municipalities should be so different under such a broad and nationally communicated regime? I get the tension field. I also understand that you want to give the municipalities the space to do some extras, but I'm curious how the minister looks at this tension field, also with a view to the future. Mr. Chairman. There are also considerable differences in the speed of implementation and in the rate of processing of applications. Have all the municipalities reached the "easy" group of entitled people? Can you give a picture of what has been achieved so far? My group is concerned about non-use. People who do not receive benefits but do meet the income limit must apply for them themselves. However, how do we ensure that these people actually apply? Any sign of non-use? And what can we do nationwide to support municipalities? Mr. Chairman. Then there is a specific question about the Wsnp, about people who are in debt restructuring and are likely to get a refund next year. That can be seen as a new debt and with a Wsnp trajectory that can be fatal. So you can be removed from the trajectory. Does the Minister have a visual on that? I think there should be contact with the judges commissioners of Recofa. Any ideas on that? Because this is precisely a vulnerable group that I think is: let us make sure that the consequences that we are all in now do not go beyond that. Mr. Chairman. I come to the August decision-making process. High energy costs and high inflation persist for the time being. The energy surcharge is not enough for many households. Does the Minister see that, too? What room is there? And how do we, as a government, get a possible future arrangement implemented quickly, directed and uniformly, with an eye for non-use and with the lessons of this bill in mind? Mr. Chairman. I'm running out of time, so I'm gonna leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u158	Thank you, Mr. Ceder. I shall now give the floor to Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u159	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Today we have a special legal treatment. When you introduce a new social security law, you should first see what problem there is and what need you provide. After that, you should see who gets the money, how much money that person gets and whether there are any hardness clauses or something. Let's start with the problem statement. I don't see that clearly defined. That's not a silly question. Because if you don't have a picture of how many households you want to help, you start with €200. Then there is Russia's raid in Ukraine, which you, as a cabinet of course, do not know either, and you see the prices of energy rising even faster. That's why you make it €800 in March. But nowhere do I see any justification for choosing a particular group. Then the question is, who gets it? When I became a Member of Parliament here, I took the oath to the Constitution, Mr. President. I think you took the vow yourself. Article 1 of the Constitution says: "All who are in the Netherlands are treated equally. Discrimination on grounds of religion, belief in life, political orientation, race, gender or on any ground shall not be permitted." However, this legislative proposal directly infringes Article 1 of the Constitution, not marginally. Where in one municipality 110% of the social minimum and €1 above it is sufficient not to get this surcharge of €800 I mentioned the example of Dronten. You can get this supplement in the other municipality up to 140% of the social minimum. That is many hundreds of euros difference in net income per month. That makes a huge difference for these groups, of course. I have not been able to find the justified basis for this in the legislative proposal. I therefore ask the government to state why it considers this bill to be in line with Article 1 of the Constitution. Article 20 of the Constitution says: "The security of existence of the population and the spread of prosperity are the concern of the government." This directly affects the security of life. But the article is more explicit and says: "Nederlands here on land, who cannot provide for existence, have a right to public assistance to be regulated by law." We are talking about the welfare law, which is now called the Participation Act. There has been no attempt to define who is unable to provide for its existence in the Netherlands. This is a vengeance that we have not made the definition of poverty clear for years. The CPB has fallen into its own trap. The CPB claims in a note about a year ago that there are 519.000 households living below the low-income threshold, and hence in poverty. But when they start doing micro-research at home level, it turns out that when the energy bill goes up a little bit, 1.2 million households are in trouble. If you don't find out for yourself who has a problem and what the minimum is, you'll have a discussion like you have here today. We don't really know who to help. At the same time, we know that the problems are enormous. For that you only have to go to a school, a football field, a food bank or whatever in this country. There's a huge problem of poverty. My question to the government is therefore: on what basis does it now define who needs this benefit? That may all seem very theoretical, but the AOW is so popular in this country because everyone knows that you are entitled to it when you become 66 years and 7 months this year, and because everyone knows exactly the amount and knows that that is right for everyone. It's not even here anymore. Here we go back to the fifties, when it was different by municipality. That's kind of painful. So I ask the government how it can ensure that this bill is in line with the Constitution itself. Mr. Chairman. Then the definition of who gets it. When you look at the definition of who gets it, it turns out that municipalities themselves can set the reference date. That's just gonna be trouble. If you move from one municipality to another, you may be entitled to it twice, or zero times; it's only a matter of how these municipalities set the time limit. There is no hardness clause in it and let that be just what the government said, after the fall of the cabinet: if it really isn't fair, then there must be freedom of policy somewhere. As far as the energy bill is concerned, we know that a number of low-income people do not have a hugely increased energy bill either because they are lucky enough to have a housing corporation that has a well-insulated rental house, or because they may be lucky enough to have a three-year energy contract concluded. And we know about people who have exactly the opposite problem. As far as the second group is concerned, if your energy bill increases by €150 per month, you will be completely wet in this case. If you're renting a place at Vestia that isn't isolated and unmaintained, then you're screwed. Are you eligible or not? Therefore, there would be a hardness clause. And mind you, most of the schemes have a phasing-out path. If you make more money, you get a little less care allowance, but that goes one by one. The rent supplement also goes in steps of about €100 per year. But here the border is very hard: €800 or not. If you get €1 too much, you don't get that €800 surcharge. Even the highest judges in the country have said that the general principles of good governance must provide a system for the people who are just outside to receive the supplement. How's the government gonna make that operational?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u160	Before you continue, there is an interruption by Mr Cedar, Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u161	In my contribution, I talked about the generic regulation, precisely because I am also struggling with how to reach that group. I've been crawling through a number of things, including what might be technically possible. You could see if you can get hold of that group through, for example, Supplements or the Participation Act. There are a lot of different ways to do that. I hear Mr Omtzigt say: keep the limit as it is, but see if you can apply a hardness clause if someone falls outside a few euros. Do you think that's the answer? Because I think you still have a generic measure. Or do you have another proposal? I have the same struggle, but what you are proposing does not yet lead to the solution that I think we need now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u162	There are a few things. First, the law provides not for the law but for the power of the municipality to pay a surcharge. This means that you should at least standardize that each municipality should take at least 120% of the social minimum as a benchmark. The municipalities we mentioned earlier should therefore go up to 120%. And you make it a right somewhere; that's how hard those people need it. Secondly, my proposal would have been as follows. At €200 I understood that you went from €200 to €0 and that you had no intermediate step in that. But the moment the government went from €200 to €800, the government should have actually made a second truffle. The PvdA proposed €500, but I could also imagine €400. I mean, you're saying to anyone who's between 120% and about modal, because there's a very large group of households in trouble, saying, "We have a surcharge of €400 for you." It is not that these €400 cover the total energy costs, but with that group you can expect a bit more load than with the group that are completely at the minimum. That would have been my preference. I'd have liked to have discussed it. I understand they had to start early. But, yes, we saw this declared in December and it was not until June that we had a plenary debate on this. Actually, I think that's a little late.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u163	Thank you to Mr Omtzigt for what he says. It just doesn't touch the core of what I see as a problem, as a implementation problem. The people whom we, or at least I, and I think Mr Omtzigt, would like to help most are, in my view, the ones who are financially vulnerable. That is part of your proposal. But you also have to help those who actually have higher energy costs. Because you have people who have a fixed energy contract. That's where we'll find each other. Do you believe that your proposal does not yet provide for this? I'm asking this purely because I'm just really looking at how you might think about this in terms of implementation in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u164	I hope that the future will be Friday, because then the cabinet will be working on the spring decision-making process. I think this law is the most appropriate law to do anything else. I could then recommend two directions to the government. The first is: make a right to it from 120% and also chop a knot about students. This can simply be done by saying that you pay every student €200 via DUO, because students are often in a common household. But you have to hit something; I'm just saying what it's like. The second option is not entirely my preference. That is to say to municipalities: be generous, because we are making 200 to 300 million extra available to people who are just outside. This means that each municipality can give about 1% of its households that supplement. That's a bit tricky in terms of execution. But then you say as a municipality: you must be able to show somewhere that your energy bill is significantly higher, for example that you have a flexible contract and not a hyper-efficient home. Of all the directions I could think of, those are the two directions that I think are most open to help the difficult cases.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u165	Thank you. You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u166	But pay attention, we're really in the biggest purchasing power crisis I've called it an existential security crisis since 1945, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u167	Thank you to Mr Omtzigt for his contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u168	He's not done yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u169	I know, but so far.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u170	I know the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u171	It's legislation, and it's gonna take us all as long as we want. That's also important in this house. I want to go back. I want to ask a question about the beginning. I was in the pens, and then it went down for a while. I was thinking about November. Then we stood here during the budget debate on SZW and said with several colleagues: these are historical figures, we do not know what is coming, so what is happening? Even the imperfect instrument, the purchasing power insights, we didn't have for the coming year. And I don't think that's a perfect instrument. There is another question to be asked by Mr Omtzigt, through you, Mr President. My question is actually very simple. All the students who just graduated should be able to ask that question: what is the problem you are actually trying to solve? We've been over a year, but we don't actually even have it in the picture. Mr Stoffer asked for this too. I noticed that I was actually very embarrassed and found that very embarrassing. How is that possible? I thought I wouldn't sit in my chair, but I would ask that question through you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u172	First of all, I had a meeting in October and I didn't foresee this, so it wasn't because I foresaw everything that I tabled a motion that asked: come up with a committee on security of existence and show what the minimum people need. Then you have to consider three things. How much money does a household make? Are the facilities they have to pay available for that money? If you have a social rental, you're a bacon buyer if you have something above the minimum income. But if you don't, you're gonna get wet. The same also applies to travel expenses. Just low-income people often don't have them, while people with higher incomes get the Tesla grant, which I'm about to bring up again. You have to see who you're doing it for. And if you have that access, you can also recalibrate your entire social security system. If you then find out that there are a lot of people who live far too expensive, then you can make that a priority of your policy. Now we are surprised if we have the CPB do a study on this. Then we all have red ears: wow, it's 1.2 million households. That's 1.2 million households that intersect every month, even though they've already had to cancel all the fun stuff. I saw a number of colleagues looking really surprised at the time. I recommend the MPs here: come from your bubble, from your canal belt, and go to Rotterdam-Zuid or to Nieuw-West in Amsterdam or to Enschede-Zuid.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u173	I come to all those places in the country. I am using Mr Omtzigt and his speech to ask this question, but the piece that I find so embarrassing is that in November we asked all that question, in the budgetary procedure SZW and in the third term of the Autumn note. In March, we asked that question again in the purchasing power debate. Now we ask that question again. I note that our information position on how things really are with people has not improved down to the capillaries. I find that embarrassing. Does the colleague share that with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u174	This reminds me of the debates in the old, old House of Representatives on child labour. Those were gentlemen with high hats who were surprised that the factories were filled with working children, because their own children did not work. Sometimes it seems as if we are in the same position as those gentlemen at the time. We have a vastly stratified society in which you only encounter people from your own bubble. Some of the people here don't see in the immediate vicinity, despite all the effort the 150 Members of Parliament are doing here, I really have to say how hard it hits people. So we need institutions to calculate that. But we've made our social security and tax administration so complicated that we don't know which people are falling through the floor anymore. That's why I'm asking for that committee. I also want to know from the Minister when that committee starts and ends. Does that committee also take into account that the social minimum, as stated in that motion, also has a share of'social participation'? Then at least you have some money to be a member of a sports association, to have one subscription and to be able to visit your grandchildren from time to time. That is what we mean by social participation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u175	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u176	I'm gonna get to the execution test. There's no execution test on this bill. The municipalities have been asked whether they can do this, but, technically speaking, therefore, I repeat once again, this bill does not provide for a compulsory benefit but only the possibility of paying out something. That's a possibility you can always give. That does not create any implementation problems. But I'm gonna tell you that a lot of people object to this and appeal it. And because we are creating a lot of loose ends here in this legal process, and because it has already begun, we are going to have a very large number of trials, including painful trials. What possibilities does the government see to prevent this? If it's a short blow and nothing else works, it would really be my proposal to give the municipalities a budget. They will then have to show how much they have spent on this group through the special assistance. Then they can give roughly 1% of their residents this supplement. Those communities then know how to shape it in some way, and it ends up with those people. I would also like to see that performance test, even if it is not due for another month or two months. We have just said that we want implementation tests for the most difficult legislative proposals. I can assure you, this is one. It's not for nothing that everyone here has a big problem with "what then?" 'Cause it's hard enough already. So if you're making up a trick not to have to do a performance test now, then we don't have to do it anymore when we do need a mandatory execution test. Mr. Chairman. I'm going to keep it shorter than I thought, but that's because some questions have already been asked. It's painful. It is painful to see that we have a cabinet that has a CO reduction strategy on the one hand. In addition, this year it will make 72 million available for new electric cars, or €3,350 for each new electric car. In addition, the three owners of coal power plants would actually receive 1.8 billion. Hopefully that is a little less because they are allowed to heat coal again, although I am not saying that we are happy with that. So a lot of money is being spent with very little CO savings, I tell you here, but because CO savings are supposedly good, approved and great, we do not seem to be looking at whether we are getting value for the tax euros we spend on them. If you put that thing in place, and that is painfully so, in addition to the fact that we are not giving half as much to those 1 million households that we are helping with it as those three owners of foreign coal power stations, then I think we are making a mistake here in the budget. I'm afraid we're going to do exactly the same for the nitrogen fund. Because we say that we compensate the farmers, but I wonder who we're going to compensate at the end of the day. I wonder if we will do the same with the Corona Restoration Fund in Europe. We're paying 40 billion for that, but we're not getting the list of who receives the money. In fact, you have to comply with the duty of intelligence here in the special assistance. This is quite hard in the special assistance before you are entitled to this supplement. I therefore have the following question for the government, both in the energy strategy and in the food strategy. I have to say that I have a little bit of a food strategy today, but I call it because people get in trouble to pay for their food at the end of the month. In addition to an idea of how to reduce nitrogen and how to reduce CO, does the government also have a strategy for how households can continue to pay for their energy and food over the next five years? I invite the government to make that strategy. I hope that a commitment can be made, otherwise I will come forward with a motion. I believe that, as a civilised country, we must have a strategy to ensure that we can meet our constitutional obligations, that we can provide basic services for people, namely a heated home and at least enough food to avoid hunger. If we do not correct this bill a little bit in the coming days, it will unfortunately not apply to a group of people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u177	Thank you, Mr. Ommzigt. Then I give the floor to Mrs Palland, CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u178	Thank you, Mr President. It is a good thing that the cabinet is working in several ways, and wants to make it more secure for people. We have steps to take in that. We also talked about this this morning. I heard Mr Omtzigt speak about the rethinking of the social minimum and about the Commission. We have asked for this with several colleagues this morning. The letter was about on its way; I understood something like that. It is therefore a good thing that this is done in a structural sense, by increasing the wml and linking assistance with the AOW. I would also mention the rethinking of the social minimum, the simplification of our social security system and the handling of rigidities. However, measures have also been taken in the short term to alleviate the rise in energy prices, such as generic VAT measures and the energy surcharge, which now lies in the amendment of the law and the amendment of the budget. This is needed in times when we want to draw attention to the growing group of low and low incomes, which are increasingly in trouble. The legislation on the energy surcharge is now before us. It is good that the cabinet has given municipalities some extra comfort in granting this energy surcharge, by increasing the budget so that all households can receive this extra money up to 120% of the social minimum. We do, however, have some questions to the Cabinet about the direction of the regulation and its nature and design. First of all, municipalities now indicate that next time they would prefer a generic state measure. How does the cabinet look at this and what possibilities would there be for that? Is this a lesson for a possible next time? The Minister states in the progress letter that her picture is that the differences in implementation between municipalities have diminished since the cabinet made available to the municipalities the resources to enable the entire target group of households with an income of up to 120% to receive the supplement. How do we check this in practice and how do we talk about it with the municipalities? A number of colleagues, including Mr Ceder and I also thought Mr Stoffer, mentioned the complexity of the scheme and the threshold that can be experienced when applying for it. My colleague Inge van Dijk has taken the Prime Minister to facilities, often municipal. These are initiatives from society, where volunteers help people to apply for schemes, precisely because we often make things too complicated. How does the Minister see this? That there are thresholds to apply for this, I mean above all. Mr. Chairman. A small number of municipalities choose to pay out the amount distributed, ranging from two payments, one in spring and one in autumn, to an amount per month for the rest of the year. We can imagine something about this, although it also entails additional burdens and actions for the municipality. We are concerned that people may not be aware that, for example, they are now paying low advance payments and therefore do not experience an increase in energy costs, but may later be faced with a high bill at the end of the year, while the funds allocated may have been spent on other items in the meantime. How does the minister send this with the municipalities, also in order to avoid problems at that time? Mr. Chairman. Most municipalities pay out the amount of €800 to the target group up to 120%, but we've already heard it here.There are many differences between municipalities. The question is: is the reason why municipalities do this known? Does that also tend towards income policy and is that desirable or not? And if this is because the municipalities see that after the award of the €800 it remains painful, then we may have to do something more for the assessment as well. What picture does the Minister have of that? One more question, including about the students. Because of the differences in living conditions, there has already been extensive discussion on this subject, and hence the extent to which they are confronted with the increase in energy prices, they have access to that individual assistance. We hear that a number of lawyers indicate that it is wrong that the supplement should not be granted to them categorically. How's that legal? Can the Minister explain that? Do we also have a picture of whether the route of individual assistance is sufficiently known to students? How will they be achieved? Is there information available for this, including through DUO? Mr President, so far.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u179	Thank you. Finally, I give the floor to Mr De Kort of the VVD. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u180	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mrs Maatoug already mentioned it in her speech: the world is unpredictable. The war in Ukraine has many major consequences, including in the Netherlands. Everyone will notice that in his or her wallet, at the prices of the fuel, with the groceries and indeed with the energy bill. That has major consequences, especially for the minima. In order to prevent these minima from getting into the acute problems, this measure, this package, has been put in place. This can also count on the support of the VVD. The execution did not go as well everywhere. I had a number of questions about this which have already been asked, among others by Mr Eerdmans, when it comes to the group, which has to make the application itself. I am therefore very curious about those answers. But it has also gone wrong on a number of occasions in municipalities, where it has been paid out of its own motion and where, for example, it has been paid twice or to people for whom it was not intended to do so. As a general rule, therefore, I have the question to the cabinet as to what lessons we have learned or are going to learn in implementation in order to do this in a possible follow-up. I hope that this will not be necessary to do better. Furthermore, many questions have already been asked and I am particularly curious about the answer given by the cabinet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u181	There is an interruption by Mr Léon de Jong, PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u182	Does the VVD believe that this €800, which is now being proposed, can be sufficient for those for whom it is now very difficult to pay their energy bills?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u183	No, the $800 is not enough, but that's not the only thing the cabinet does. There is a whole package of about 6.4 billion and there is a lot going on in the area of excise duties and VAT. So we have to look at the total package, and then there is also the fair story that we cannot compensate for everything for everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u184	When we talk about amounts, we also see that there is a very nice large pot of EUR 100 billion for nitrogen and climate, of EUR 100 billion. The VVD says: we have now made EUR 6 billion available, haven't we? There is a pot of EUR 100 billion. Why doesn't the VVD choose to spend a substantial part of that pot on the people who don't make it now, the people who represent the hardworking Netherlands, which the VVD always claims to stand for? Those are just people who, until recently, had no trouble paying their energy bills and now really have to cut back, or for example, our elders. Why doesn't the VVD choose to get more money out of that pot so we can ease the pain for a lot more people?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u185	Because the VVD sees, unlike the PVV, that there is also a lot to be done in the area of climate and nitrogen, that there are many challenges that we as the Netherlands stand for, for which everything has to be done. Mr De Jong talks about funds in the government agreement, but we are also dealing with this current purchasing power situation. I admit it's very annoying. That is why I welcome the measures taken. We shouldn't pretend nothing happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u186	It's really terrible what's happening here. D66 will be very happy. GroenLinks will also be very happy. It really looks like the VVD sold her soul to those kinds of parties. How on earth is it possible for you to just leave 100 billion euros on the shelf, while you are abandoning part of your own constituency, hardworking Netherlands, and all those other people who are around 120% of the social minimum, our elderly who are pissing away, all those self-employed who are no longer able to make it, by saying: yes, there must also be things happening in the field of climate? I don't understand. The VVD has denied its own supporters, but now it's working hard on the rest of the Netherlands as well. That's really something to be ashamed of. It shows that D66, VVD, GroenLinks are one pot wet. It doesn't help the people at home. I hope the people at home realize that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u187	Well, again, we see that there are more problems. I would like to mention here that the VVD and the cabinet are making extra money for the defence, for security, for matters that are indeed very important. Equally, something must be done in the area of nitrogen and climate. The same applies to the subject we are discussing today: the energy surcharge.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u188	I also have a question for the VVD. I spoke in my contribution from the financial noose that hangs around the neck of a lot of people in the Netherlands. This is actually due to the fact that half of the energy bill is made up of taxes. Now the VVD has increased the tax on gas, the VVD has increased the VAT, and the VVD has increased the burden on labour for years, more than the average in the European Union. Even before Russia's invasion of Ukraine, the Netherlands has to do with the most expensive petrol in the world. Do you agree with me that the problem of high energy bills lies primarily in taxation, in the burden borne by the state? Do you also think that the VVD is a significant source of cause?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u189	I also indicated at the beginning of my speech that the war also had major consequences in the Netherlands. We do notice this in fuel prices. At the same time, we have reduced VAT, and I am referring to that package of the 6.4 billion ECU we have reduced excise duties and we are also doing something about the non-taxable reimbursement of travel expenses. Those are measures that are being taken to dampen them, I will not say to compensate them, because that is what needs to be done, and that is what is happening.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u190	If you drop a drop on a glowing plate, you can't call it mute. It's the bigger picture that matters to me. I would point out that for Ukraine, after Hong Kong in the Netherlands, we had the most expensive petrol in the world. That's not because of the war, no, that was already going on before. As working or non-working Dutch people, we pay extremely much to the state spot and the state grape. I always thought that the VVD was a party that stood up for it and that in contributions like tonight would say: yes, that should go down, that is not okay. We shouldn't muffle those people, we should go help those people. There's got to be more coming back for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u191	Mr Eerdmans and also Mr De Jong give the impression that nothing is happening, but I am fighting that. I indicated all the excise duties, VAT and travel expenses, which is very important for the car owner. The AOW will go up and the wml goes up, so something does happen that workers notice and some seniors notice. Unfortunately, I cannot deny that people in the wallet notice what's going on in the world.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u192	Thank you. An interruption by Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u193	How much does the wml rise on July 1st?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u194	An increase of 2.5%.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u195	What is inflation?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u196	I'm not gonna be involved in a game of interrogation here. I don't have a piece of paper I can read it from. I can find it in the numbers, but I'm not gonna cooperate in these kinds of games.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u197	What's your question, Mr. Overzigt?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u198	The wml rises by just over 2%. That's about two dimes an hour, depending on what you have. That's about €34 per month, net about €20. Inflation is 10%. If you're still a little generous and you're allowed to add that 2% increase in January, you've had a 4% increase in wml, while costs have increased by 10%. So you're falling between 5% and 6% in purchasing power. If you earn wml, you fall outside the definition. They are hardworking Dutch and they were once placed on a pedestal by a certain political party. They are hard-working Dutch people who, for example, put the luggage in the plane at Schiphol Airport for just above the minimum wage. They're out of this because they're making too much money. They fall by 5% to 6% in purchasing power. Is that acceptable to the VVD?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u199	I acknowledge that I have already indicated that there is a group that is having a very difficult time. It is not for nothing that we support the security of existence that is coming, at the request of Mr Omtzigt, or precisely as the implementation of his motion. Then we'll talk about it again. There's a reason they're looking at it. Like Mr Ceder, I also refer to the August decision-making process.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u200	The one called Omtzigt, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u201	I welcome the VVD support for the motion on security of existence. But we now have an acute problem here for a group. In other years we were at tenths of percent and I was like "boys, we're talking about €1 per month" and "we know what we're talking about." Now, for people with a minimum wage, we are talking about a decrease of 5% to 6% in purchasing power. That is €80 to €90 per month. And then you have to have an average energy contract. Those people often can't suffer. What perspective does the VVD have for these people? Does it want to strengthen this scheme so that at least those who are single and earn the minimum wage are included? Does she have anything to say to these people? We did have extra money for Tesla's, we did have extra money for coal plants, we had 25 billion to buy out nitrogen. Is there anything for this group?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u202	I agree with Mr Omtzigt: we have an acute problem here. What perspective do we have? I've asked questions about that, too. I think it can be done better in the execution. That is why I am curious about the response of the cabinet. I am asking those questions because I think that the amount should end up with those minima for whom it is intended. This is not the case in all municipalities. That is what Mr Omtzigt was talking about. We need to look at that in particular, and that is the perspective I am offering.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u203	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. One more question from Mrs Maatoug. Short and powerful, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u204	I'm trying. We're learning, Mr. Chairman. I was very pleased with the opening that was just offered. It starts with a shared problem analysis. Only then came that phrase "let's talk about it." I think we've been doing that for a while. I know Mr De Kort a little bit from the committee. We told this minister on Monday: be nice to Rotterdams and come up with deeds. I repeat those words for Mr De Kort. Let's stop talking and let's do something. We should say to these municipalities: 130% social minimum, then you're about at the minimum wage. Let's help these municipalities so they can give that to their citizens. Does that mean the VVD is on our side?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u205	Again, there is now the impression that nothing is happening. I already referred to the 6.4 billion package. The energy surcharge has been paid in no time. We support that. A lot's been going on. That is how we look at it and we support it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u206	I don't want to give the impression that nothing's happening. But the impression I do want to give, which is actually the case, is that for the group of people above the social minimum, the people Mr Omtzigt talked about, people with low moral income... We talked about that in March and we are talking about that again. And specifically, in this law, I'm talking about people around 130% social minimum. That's what this law is about. My question to Mr De Kort and the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats is: should we, while we as MPs are dealing with this law, not say to all the municipalities, especially those municipalities that have the policy of having the social minimum at 130% anyway: yes, go help your citizens; we support you. My question is: does the VVD support that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u207	No. You have to draw a line somewhere. It's 120% from the Empire. We support that. Municipalities are free to do more. There are many municipalities that do that. In addition, there is also the possibility of individual special assistance for distressing cases. That's how we look at it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u208	Mrs Maatoug, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u209	Finally, Mr President. Look, this is plain language. Then don't tell me we're gonna talk anymore. Why don't you just say, "Those people can choke."
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u210	I don't agree with that at all. Anything can be talked about. I'm talking about the energy surcharge. That is what we are debating today.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u211	Thank you, Mr. De Kort. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. I shall suspend the sitting until 8.15 p.m., including a dinner break. I'll see you at 8:15.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u212	I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u213	Mr President, thank you. Thank you to Members for their questions and their input. For the sake of clarity, let me join with everyone who has said that these are special circumstances. "Special" in the sense that a lot of people have a hard time getting by. Many people feel inflation and it is particularly directly palpable in the level of energy costs. That is not a matter of one moment, but it is a broader issue. I shall come back to that when I answer the questions. The cabinet is very aware of that. That is precisely the reason why the cabinet has always sought measures, first in December but then in March and then in the spring note, and I can imagine that in August it is again a subject of some relief. I also realize: it is not the removal of the pain, but we hope to give some relief, especially in the situation of people who are having a hard time. People with low and middle incomes hopefully experience some relief in this way, however much I know it doesn't take away everything. There is a legislative proposal that was part of a larger package, which looked for measures such as excise duties, energy taxes, VAT on the energy bill, but also a targeted measure for the lowest income. The cabinet has chosen to do so because it was looking for a measure that was as targeted as possible. Mr Stoffer quoted the same thing. He said: we want policy as focused as possible. That is preferable, so that we reach the groups that need it the most. I come right to the dilemma outlined by a number of your Members. If you want to have a measure quickly.... speed was one of the factors that played along.... and you want it as focused as possible................................................................................................................................................... That was exactly the question the cabinet was faced with: how can you do this in a way that it does meet the requirements, but that it is still feasible. From here on, let me thank the congregations incredibly for picking up the glove again at our request to play a role in this. 'Again' I say, because they had already performed the Tozo, for example, which they had also entered at high speed. They have also done an incredible amount of work. It started just before my time, because in December the conversation was already going on with the previous cabinet, so my predecessor had the first conversation with the municipalities. They said at the time: we see the need and we really want to play a role in this, but we prefer to have a generic regime. That's what they reported back then. I understand that very well, because that is the way you can best design it technically. You then come to issues such as focus, focus and speed. This has been one of the reasons why municipalities have said: then we want to play a role. My predecessor outlined the outline of the legislative proposal on 10 December. When I arrived, we perfected the bill as soon as possible. Again, there was the weighing between the steps you all go through in a normal process around a bill and how we could keep the speed in it. What exactly does this bill regulate? I think it would be good to repeat that. The legislative proposal essentially gives municipalities the following two powers. First, municipalities will be given the power to provide a one-off energy surcharge to low-income households in 2022. That's a jurisdiction. Secondly, municipalities are given the power of their own initiative to provide this one-off energy surcharge, i.e. without an application, to households whose income is known to the municipality to be low. That's not in the law right now. So I had to put that hook in the law to make sure that municipalities can implement it as easily as possible. They know about about half the people who are eligible for this supplement, who they are. If all these were to be assessed individually, that would be an incredible amount of work. So that's what made this bill possible. On March 15th, we sent the bill to the Chamber. I immediately sent a letter to that effect, in which I have actually already expressed a kind of mea culpa and said: I know that the bill has not yet been dealt with in the Chamber, but I would like to give permission to the municipalities to start implementing it. And I'm gonna tell you right away, this isn't the royal road. I am very aware of that. But I also remember the debates back then. For example, there was a motion from among others the PvdA in which it was said: try to start paying the allowances before 1 April. So I felt the room's desire to do this quickly. That has motivated me to say straight away openly: we will start before the law has been dealt with in the Chamber. I understand Mr Stoffer, among others, who said that this is not the most fancy way. I'll admit it right away. Am I gonna do it again if I have to? Hopefully not, I'll just say, because this isn't the way I want to do it. But in this case, the phrase "need breaks law" may apply. That is why we have authorised the municipalities to pay in advance. This enabled them to reach large groups quickly because they could do so on their own initiative. We have discussed the adequacy of the budget for the municipalities before. On 28 April, I informed your Chamber that I would raise the budget available for the €800 times 120% of the legal social minimum from €679 million to €854 million, in order to remove all obstacles for municipalities that were afraid that they would not have enough budget to meet the target group. In this way, 800,000 people can be reached who are entitled to this supplement. In the meantime, I understand that all the municipalities have paid the one-off energy surcharge to their welfare recipients of their own motion. Most municipalities are already working on the follow-up steps, namely setting up the application procedure for households to whom the one-off energy surcharge cannot be granted on their own initiative. I shall now turn to the specific questions that have been raised on this subject. My picture is that most municipalities are really quite far away with that. Most municipalities already have a lot of requests from the people who belong to this target group. They are now processing the applications. My impression is that most municipalities have worked very loyally, devotedly and quickly, so that they can provide the people with the €800. Mr. Chairman. I've got a couple of cubes. Perhaps it would be a good idea for me to name them, so that Members also know what questions we are going to answer. The first block is very specific about the bill itself. The second block is about its implementation. The third block deals with the size of the target groups and those belonging to the target group. Then there's a block about the familiarity of the scheme. How do we reach the target group and how do we ensure that people are well informed about the scheme? Then a block of students and a block with the broader questions about purchasing power. Finally, there are a few remaining questions. Mr Stoffer asked: why has no emergency legislation been passed? I thought you said you could have. It's possible. I have to say that the period from the adoption of the legislative proposal to its submission has been extremely short compared to the normal procedure for drafting legislative proposals. I thought it was important that I had good consultation with the municipalities, because they obviously play a major role in this. Mr Omtzigt said that there was no execution test, but there is an execution test from the VNG. He was also sent along with the bill. If Mr Omtzig wants it, I can send it to him separately. I wanted the municipalities themselves to be able to do the execution test because that is so important in this legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u214	I am aware of that performance test. If I remember correctly, that execution test is based on an amount of €200 and not €800.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u215	No, that's not true. They have the most recent execution test. It is true that parts of the bill contained €200, but when the execution test was carried out, it was already known that the amount would be increased.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u216	Okay. But that still means you only have a municipal execution test. I would have liked it if there had been an execution test on this from the Empire. One of the things about it is uniformity and how you pay it out and whether you can do all that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u217	We never take a performance test at the Empire. What we do do in normal cases if I had had a lot of time is an execution test in municipalities. There is also an implementation panel and an internet consultation, where everyone can give their views. I didn't do the last two. That really was because of the time, because I wanted to keep speed in the file. However, I have explicitly asked for the implementation test of the municipalities. That makes the bill, from the moment I was inside until we filed it, take about two months. That's a relatively short time when you look at the whole thing and when you look at what's normal for a bill. Mr Eerdmans asked about the limit of 120% and whether the working Dutch people are now excluded. We have deliberately chosen to achieve the lowest incomes. No distinction is made between working and non-working. In fact, there are also working people who, unfortunately, earn no more than 120% of the statutory social minimum. The complicated thing about this target group is that you don't know exactly who they are. Often they are not in the picture with the municipality because they have no benefit or anything like that. But it is not the case that this is an exclusion ground for the groups and that they should not be eligible for it. In order to reach this target group, we have, together with the municipalities, put in place a rather broad strategy through public information, a website and social media. An information package has been provided to some 45 organisations in contact with low-income households. And that has also happened much wider, as with the Association of Insurance Companies, Aedes and I myself have spoken to the cleaning industry because there are many people who do not earn more than 120% of the minimum social standard, precisely to bring it to workers' attention. Mr Ceder asked whether the current regime would help the right group. Doesn't it end up with groups that don't need it? We have not included any income limit in the legislative proposal itself. We have made the budget available for 120% times €800. That is the budgetary series that we have retained. But the municipality itself decides what it means by the lowest incomes. Some municipalities retain 130% or even 140% of the statutory social minimum. But if they do, it is from the resources that they must then make available themselves. Most municipalities apply the limit of 120% of the statutory social minimum in local minimum policies. They asked me how to get to the 120%. That is actually the largest common denominator in the municipal minimum policy, and we have connected to it. Does it end up with the right group? It is not so that we ask people for an exact answer in terms of: has your energy bill actually increased compared to this month or that month? The fact that someone falls into the target group is enough in themselves to get a right to such an energy supplement. But there may be differences between municipalities. Mr. Chairman. I waited for my next point, but my answer was apparently genius, because Mr Ceder sits down again, I see. Then I come to Mr Omtzigt. He says that the bill directly infringes Article 1 of the Constitution, because there is a difference per month and between municipalities. Can I explain why this bill would be in line with this article, Mr Omtzigt asks me. Article 1 regulates the so-called principle of equality. "Equality principle" means that a municipality must ensure equal treatment in the implementation of the Participation Act, and thus also in the implementation of the one-off energy surcharge. As far as municipalities are concerned which differentiate between groups in the level of the energy surcharges, it is important that a distinction and a corresponding difference in the level of the energy surcharges are justified. The municipality must therefore explain the reasons. If the distinction can be justified, it does not have to be contrary to the principle of equality. Then there are also the differences between municipalities, where one does it slightly wider than the other. This is linked to the choice made by the cabinet to join the municipality's minimum policy, because it was at that time the most feasible for the municipalities. However, the minimum policy is a decentralised policy area, so municipalities have already designed their own minimum policy. So apart from the energy surcharge, there are already differences between the municipalities in whether you are entitled to something or not; that depends on the fact that we have decentralised the minimum policy. This is now working through the implementation of the energy surcharge. The fact that there are differences between the municipalities is already there. It was not contrary to Article 1 and I see no contradiction here with the principle of equality.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u218	This scheme goes a lot further than the other special assistance schemes. Those other arrangements look at a person and make a certain assessment. That could be about a broken washing machine, which could be about additional care costs. There may be many reasons for providing special assistance, but it is always reasonably directed towards the person. This is where it goes on. This scheme is not about welfare recipients, but about a very large group of people, a group that is about three times the size of the welfare population. And it is a significant amount: €800. It is not about paying, for example, the membership of a sports association, which is a lot lower in the welfare allowance. This creates a differentiated income policy. This means that you get €800 in Rotterdam if you have 135% of the social minimum, but you don't get it if you live in the rest of the Netherlands. In certain municipalities you don't get that €800 even if you have 112% of the minimum. Does the government still consider this to be in line with Article 1 and the principle of equality? After all, we are not going to levy taxes per municipality either. Yes, a different tax may be levied locally, but we are not going to say from the Reich: you pay €800 more tax if you live in Wassenaar, than if you live in Rotterdam with the same income.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u219	Perhaps Mr Omtzig has already made the argument: there are also differences in tax regulations at local level. The municipalities have a local tax area. They can make their own choices in that. I suspect my WWZ value is set higher than in... I don't know what it's like in Enschede, but with me it's pretty high, let me put it this way. And that's fine, let's just say it right away. But there are differences between municipalities. It is really up to the municipalities themselves to establish that. This also applies to local minimum policies. They can now have differences. €800 is not even such a special amount. It's not nothing, but if some healthcare costs have to be reimbursed, that can really be much higher than, for example, €800. So that difference already exists at the moment. It is really up to the policy freedom of municipalities to decide what and who they are eligible for and for what amounts.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u220	I really do see a generic arrangement here. With specific arrangements, I get it. I also understand that you get different tax rates between different provinces or municipalities when you give a particular decentralised government, such as the water authority, the municipality or the province, a tax authority. I'm afraid so. By the way, I knew at least until last year who to look at when I thought the rates in Enschede were too high!
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u221	Not anymore?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u222	No, not anymore, haha. But with this we go back to the fifties, when there were five municipality categories, five income categories, for the AOW. So in certain municipalities you had a higher AOW than in other municipalities. We haven't had that in a long time. So now we get that the surcharge in one particular municipality is higher than in another municipality, and for everyone. Isn't that contrary to the principle of equality? Or can this inequality be stretched to the infinite?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u223	We join the special assistance. It is the authority of the municipality to give this form and to draw up the policy rules for it. In the legislative proposal, we also provide for special assistance, which can now only be granted individually, to the people who are in the city's card boxes and are therefore already known there. By joining the special assistance, we also align with the differences between the municipalities. The special assistance is already different between municipalities. I share Mr Omtzigt's quest for an arrangement that can be formulated quickly and as generic as possible. But the fact that we have joined the municipalities because of the speed and possibilities we had, also has as a consequence. But that is not new in itself, because the special assistance is really already different between the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u224	I do not agree with this, but I have another small point. Would the Minister agree to grant lower benefits to municipalities that set the limit below 120%? Because at the moment there is no connection to the benefits that municipalities get. They receive benefits for anyone below 120%. But if they set the line lower, they'll be left with money. Would the government consider reducing the resources available to these municipalities, so that all municipalities are more or less forced to take at least 120% as a limit?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u225	This is due to my inconvenience, let me put it this way: some municipalities do get the money, but not the group or the level of benefit. I've been talking to VNG about that, too. I do not know how many times I have said: this is the money, spend it on it and also on that target group. But this also applies: the fact that we do it via the municipal route means that I cannot force them to do so in this way. It really has to go through the city council. After all, the city council is the supervisory body of the college. I would also like to correct that we are not talking about a lot of municipalities here. So the picture doesn't add up that a lot of municipalities don't do this, because there are only a few of them. Very often it also has to do with the specific circumstances, for example that the municipality is already an article-12 municipality and therefore already has financial problems. But even so, you have been given the money for this, so spend it on it. But they have the freedom to apply it here. The money the municipalities get is distributed on the basis of the usual keys we have. It's not like I can just get back the money I've already paid to the municipality for that purpose.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u226	Finally, Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u227	That's exactly the problem, because I think it can be retrieved. We are only now adopting a budget law and can simply say in the terms: municipality, you get the money, if you meet at least these conditions? I don't agree with those readings, but I understand you're gonna leave that with the municipalities. But you can say as a minimum condition that a municipality must reach at least this group and open it to that group? I just mentioned a few municipalities that don't pay people between 110% and 120%. Those are some dozen churches of the nearly 400 we have there, I believe.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u228	It's not dozens, it's my statue. There's a few of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u229	I had a slightly different picture. Anyway, there are some. Then you can say: we cut a piece on the benefit and you can get the rest if you change your municipal scheme?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u230	We transferred the money to the Municipal Fund. So we have allocated the funds generically to the municipalities. We have said: make a regulation so that you pay it out to these groups. That is the hallmark of decentralisation. It already is. If the Empire makes money available through the Municipal Fund, then you do not have the guarantee that it is also spent for that purpose. That's standing practice. But, of course, you want the congregations to do what you ask them to do. The fact that we are following this system means that it is not up to me to say: I am going to get the money back now. It's really up to the city council to check if the college does what they're asked to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u231	In the reply, the Minister made use of Mr Omtzigt's preliminary and argumentation about the municipal tax domain. Local authorities are sometimes given the opportunity to take advantage of the fact that they are not allowed to pursue income policies. So all of a sudden I thought, "Hey, does the Minister now give an opening and say that it is desirable that municipal income policies should take place?"
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u232	Mrs Maatoug always listens very carefully. That's always very nice about Mrs Maatoug. She's always looking for openings. Mr Omtzigt said: we are not going to levy different taxes either because you live in a particular municipality. Then my comment was: you have the municipal tax area, in which there are indeed differences between municipalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u233	Then that is clear, even though all kinds of communities are now disappointed. My follow-up question is as follows. I am very pleased with the inconvenience and dilemma outlined. We know that, because this debate is actually about a generic income instrument for which the Empire is responsible. The only reason we're in the municipal domain is because that was the fastest route. Otherwise, we would have done something else. That's how I understand the Minister. Then my question. We struggle with the differences all the time. Mr Omtzigt asked a fair question about the differences in income policy. We say that's not up to the municipalities but to the Empire, because then it's equal for everyone in the country. Is it not time for a framework in which we are no longer dependent on the welfare regime, but in which, if you make agreements of this kind, we also have a kind of state regime with corona, and now we have a kind of government regime, in which the municipality is only the executive? Because I thought the minister was very optimistic. Yeah, here's my question. Hopefully we will never have to do this again, but in the short time that I have been in politics, we have now had two occasional sessions in English where that was necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u234	I would like to be careful to regard the municipalities as our executive, because they are not. Municipalities simply have their own powers, and they also have their own policies that they can pursue. And, of course, that also has to do with tasks that we ask them to do, and that is what they are getting money for. However, I think that we should keep it pure in the state-law relations with the municipalities: they are not our executives. I understand Mrs Maatoug's question very well. That is also the inconvenience I have formulated, on the road of the municipalities. I understand the municipalities very well. They said they'd rather have a generic scheme. I understand, because I would have preferred that, too. Only, if we wanted to do it quickly in a way that was also very targeted, we simply couldn't find a better way at that time. Then I think we should respect the municipalities themselves for finding the right way and also for their own minimum policies. Because that was often the best and fastest way for them to do the benefits. So I don't know if we need a national framework. I hope that we will not have to do it this way if necessary. But I can't rule it out either, I say right away. Then Mr Omtzig asks what poverty definition this cabinet uses.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u235	About the previous point? Yes, Mrs. Kathmann.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u236	I'm gonna get triggered by it anyway. The question was not necessarily about national framework. We have indeed now seen with corona, in my opinion, we are in a lot of other crises, which are sometimes very quickly, urgently, need national measures, including in this case. The Minister already outlined it: we are really in a very deep crisis, for a lot of people in the Netherlands, 1.2 million people. We're only in the municipal domain because that was the fastest route. Appreciate that. But the question is not about a framework. Is it not time for us to be able to take measures very quickly through a procedure that does not force you to be in the municipal domain but the municipalities do have implementing tasks? So it is not a framework, it is a way of maintaining that speed and only in emergencies and crisis situations that can do so very quickly. That was the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u237	I sent my letter on the Participation Act to this Chamber last week. One of the proposals I make is to have a hook in the Participation Act in order, where appropriate, to be able to implement categorical arrangements. That is actually exactly what I have now regulated in this law. I ran into the fact that I can't categorically do anything with the municipalities, because that hook doesn't exist. So I'm gonna have to make a piece of law for that. This is just one of the reasons, having just learned from these circumstances, why I think we should have such a hook. If something like this happens in some cases and if we think we can do it through the municipalities, but in such a way that we have just properly enshrined it in the law, for example, with a veil here: what exactly is it about? Then we have made that a bit more durable. So that's exactly what I'm trying to organize a little more structuralally. Then Mr Omtzig asks what poverty definition the cabinet uses for this bill to determine the target group. We have just discussed this in the debate on the interruption. The bill is not specifically linked to a poverty definition, but to the local municipal minimum policy. That is the framework in which the municipalities adapt it. As I said, we have made the money available for 120% x €800. Who gets it? Mr Omtzigt says: I see that it is in line with local minimalism, but should we not also have a hardness clause, precisely to prevent the weather from leading to some distressing situations, for example if you are just above the income test? The municipalities have freedom of policy in determining the target group. In the policy they have made for the implementation of this bill, the municipalities have also included a hardness clause. So it is not directly included in this legislative proposal, but it is included in the policy rule that is derived from it. This also gives the municipalities the necessary space, should they really have to deal with poignant cases. Mr Omtzigt is right to point that out. Mr Stoffer asked whether alternatives to this legislation had been considered. Like I said, you'd rather have a measure that isn't so ad hoc and better integrated into generic policy. We now have a debate on this in the cabinet. What do you need to ensure more structuralally that people's security of existence increases? That is one of the reasons why the cabinet has decided to raise the statutory minimum wage it intended to raise for a year, with the link to all benefits, because they also go up. These are structural measures that you should also have to ensure that people's situation gets a little better in structural terms. However, at the time when the question arose as to what we can do very effectively for this group, it was not yet discussed.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u238	That's an excellent answer. Here's what I'm gonna hit. I now hear that it is about the legal minimum wage, but I had specifically asked in my contribution about the middle incomes. There's a discussion in the cabinet about this. I would like to know whether this includes the discussion on middle incomes and, above all, the bottom of middle incomes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u239	You're almost forcing me to give you insights into discussions that we're about to have in August. As Mr Stoffer knows, we are always talking about the burdens in August. We always look at the expenditures in spring. That is why we discussed the legal minimum wage with the benefits there. But, of course, we are going to talk about the burden. It is no secret that it is then a great wish of the cabinet to see how we can reduce the burden on labour. This is particularly true of those with lower middle incomes and middle incomes. I can now give much more insight into the discussion in the cabinet, but you can hear our wish.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u240	This answer is fine. I understand this isn't gonna happen any other way. It is already very good that it is being discussed and taken seriously. We are very curious about what will come out later. If something can really be done for this group, it has the SGP's support. Let me add that to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u241	Then I will pass this part of the debate on to the cabinet, so we already have the SGP in the pocket. Mr Stoffer is very kind to me these days. He supports almost everything I suggest. That's a joke. Oh, dear. I had a disclaimer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u242	That's almost a personal fact, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u243	No, no, no, it was a joke, Mr. Chairman. Mr Stoffer is an independent, critical mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u244	Well, Mr. Stoffer is racing to the microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u245	This is a little entrapment. This minister's just doing pretty well. If she stays so busy, that relationship will remain that way, Mr. President. But if things change, I'm starting to get critical anyway. But so far, so good.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u246	Thank you, Mr. Stoffer. Let's take a look at the other questions. Mr Omtzigt had specifically asked about the problem of the legislative proposal. He asks: what problem do we really want to address, which group is involved and how do we get to this choice? As I have just said, this bill really focuses on the energy surcharge. It is about supporting the purchasing power of a very targeted group of people, the people with the lowest incomes. We have joined the majority of the municipal minimum policy, which is 120% of the statutory social minimum. By the way, I just said it's 800,000 people, but it's 1 million households. That was my fault. I thought $800 and $800,000, but it's $800 for 1 million households. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the block of implementation of the scheme. I have answered the questions about the legislative proposal and several questions have also been asked. Mr Van Baarle says: there is a difference between municipalities when allocating the surcharge, because one municipality holds a power test and the other does not. He even asks, "What community has a power test?" I believe that Mrs Kathmann and Mrs Maatoug asked the same question. Amsterdam has a power test. I shall drop a silence for a moment, because it concerns two aldermen from the parties who have asked the question. I am not saying that this is related, but Amsterdam, for example, has a capital test of €6,000. In the model directive that we have drawn up, municipalities are asked not to do so. But once again, municipalities have the freedom to do so. In my discussions with the VNG, I once again asked for it not to be done and for it to be aligned as much as possible with the model regulation that we have drawn up. But in the end it is also the choice of the municipality and the city council to decide whether or not to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u247	Then we are back to our dilemma of just: what are we doing with each other? Then we'll get back to Thorbecke's house. Municipal councils have that space, and so do lectures. But the whole reason for all this was: a generic income instrument. I also said in my speech that I think that the cabinet is linked to two thoughts. It chooses very randomly, I say, but that is my own appreciation, when a line of argument applies. Sometimes it's generic: this applies, and there's only one budget. Sometimes it's specific: one municipality does it, and then we refer to the city council. But if, for example, there are municipalities that have a social minimum of 130%, which is also decided in the house of Thorbecke, then this minister does not choose to supplement that budget. I come to my questions. One, why isn't the agreement that there's never a power test? Two, can you please be more consistent in applying the framework?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u248	I think the framework is clear. We have a law governing the possibility of a categori cal allocation and the possibility for municipalities to pay an energy surcharge. In the implementation test, the VNG also asks: please make a model regulation with us, in which we can include certain rules. Municipalities can then adopt them in their own policies. That's how it usually works. We are making some sort of model regulation, but in the end it is up to the college and the council of that municipality to make the decision to take over, yes or no. That explains why there is a difference between the municipalities. That's why one municipality does a power test and the other municipality doesn't. In our model regulation, we have said, asked or advised: do not do so. But if we spend it on the route of the municipalities, I must also respect that freedom of policy exists among the municipalities. That is not only the case with this arrangement. This is actually the case throughout the social domain, in which we also decentralised such matters to the municipalities. That policy freedom is there. We have said that the amount we use, the money that the municipalities get for this, is based on 120% and €800. Otherwise, at some point, one municipality will say: I am doing a higher percentage now, because then I will also get a higher percentage from the minister or from the Empire to implement that scheme. We have taken the large average of 120%. This covers the minimum policy of most municipalities. I can see that some of the municipalities are putting a shovel on top of that. That is not annoying, Mrs Maatoug: I also like the fact that municipalities themselves want to contribute to this because they see the problems of their inhabitants. But I think that, given the way we always do it, the framework has been applied very consistently.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u249	The Minister cites Amsterdam as an example. Does the Minister have a good national picture of the conditions that municipalities apply and what the consequences are? I ask this in the light of the fact that this minister has allocated a budget on an average of 120%, but municipalities all attach conditions to this that may have an impact on whether or not you reach the group on which that amount is based.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u250	Choices are made by the municipalities themselves. Some municipalities have maintained, as Mrs Maatoug also says, for example 130% of the statutory social minimum. If they get a budget of 120% and they want to reach that larger group, they can of course set conditions for the 120% group themselves. I just mentioned a random city, but that could be a reason. I don't know, because I haven't been there. Those are just free choices those municipalities have. As I said, most of the municipalities are really doing it just as we asked them to do it. I want to continue to emphasise that. It's not like there are huge differences now. If there are differences, they are very often even wider than we have asked. So I really appreciate that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u251	But my question was whether the Minister has a national coverage, and if the Minister doesn't have it, whether she's willing to say she can send it to the Chamber. Because I think it is good to see how this is done in practice in order to test the effectiveness of such a regulation, which we place with municipalities. Are there, for example, also municipalities that comply with the 120% but that additional capital requirement? Then we can say together: that municipality has been given money but makes an additional demand, so it has not spent the entire budget on that group. That says something about the effectiveness of this kind of thing. Is the Minister willing to send that to the Chamber if she doesn't?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u252	I don't have that overview right now. This is also the monitoring question raised by some of your members. I can paint general images. That is what I did in last week's letter, in which I give a kind of current state of affairs about how we stand. But precisely because we are aligning it with the local policy of a municipality, I cannot go along with a very high level of accountability. In fact, if I were to do that now, municipalities would have to do an enormous amount of administrative work to keep up with it. They have that freedom of policy, so I can only see that there are differences. I can't tell them, so you're getting cut or whatever. I see that the municipalities are now seeing a huge amount of work coming in, around asylum, around Ukraine, around the energy surcharge. It's really all hands on deck. I am not going to ask them to take on a very heavy responsibility with all kinds of things on and off. Eventually they still have the space to make their own choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u253	Finally, Mr. Van Baarle.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u254	I'm not asking for a very strict, heavy responsibility. I merely ask that we should be given here as soon as possible an overview of the conditions that municipalities apply. I do not think that is a very difficult question to ask the municipalities. We will then be able to monitor what is happening in the implementation in the near future. Could the Minister promise that we will at least get it as soon as possible? I am simply curious to see what is being applied in the country, wider than the examples we can mention on the basis of media messages or own information.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u255	I can give a rough picture of how large the arrangements are. That is really based on own research from the web pages: what exactly does it look like? I will ask if we can give a kind of rough picture of that. But we don't control the college. I really want to emphasise that here. The suggestion that we can then carry out a check or find a lot of it is not correct.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u256	It's being presented here as if lectures have a choice. We do choose here. We're throwing measures in the country by hand. In Rotterdam, people with 140% of the social minimum are entitled to the supplement. Why? Because a philanthropist has risen. He said half of this town is going down. The city council can't solve it, because that gets too little money from The Hague, so as a philanthropist I'm going to solve that for them. Really! We have a minister here who stands to dish as if lectures could choose what percentages they apply. If those classes could choose, they would all go for that 140%, just because they see how wrong it is with the people in their city and in their village. They don't have a choice! Everyone here is unanimous in asking: make sure they have that choice, to help the people who need it very much. I would like a reflection on that philanthropist that made that possible in Rotterdam. He'll see, more than this cabinet does, what people need it. Is the Minister prepared to ensure that all these lectures do have the choice to facilitate all those people they want to help?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u257	I see a great deal of willingness in municipalities in general to help their inhabitants. In addition, no municipality is excluded. Every city council and every college feels how complicated it is, as well as we feel it. Mrs Kathmann is now suggesting that it is not, but it is not. I live approximately in the same district as Mrs Kathmann, so I know the situation pretty well too. I've lived there for 27 years, so it's not like I don't know what's going on out there. And yes, I have also heard that there has been a philanthropist there, who, by the way, does a lot more for the municipality; that is not just for this situation. If you ask me politically what I think there is an institution that wants to help the people of the city, then my answer is that I think that is a great gesture. I also find it impressive that he says: we want to allow this to be done for the people of our city. But does that mean that the cabinet says, "We don't do anything for the people"? No. I think we are just arguing that we are putting more than 800 million into this scheme, and rightly so, because these people need it so badly. We have therefore set the budget for 120% times €800. A lot of questions have been asked about whether that is enough for all that remains to come. At the moment, everything is actually a step. That's just a step in a situation where you're actually following the wave. But the cabinet won't let this go. On the contrary, I think that the fact that we are dealing with the bill here is already a sign that we do care.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u258	That wasn't the question. They're just shopping here. If the scheme goes wrong, you think it's the choice of the college or a city council not to perform it properly or to choose to use a lower percentage or a power check, while it's about how the Empire facilitates those municipalities to do what can be done. Because the first comment is made here: we do know which political parties are the aldermen in a city like Rotterdam or Amsterdam, who opt for a power test. It is not immediately given the package leaflet that perhaps it should be because there is just too little money coming from the Empire to help people at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u259	And what is your specific question?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u260	My specific question is: can the Minister simply stop shopping? It's just that as a Empire, you make sure that you facilitate the municipalities to help the people who need it. And don't go to the councils, lectures and aldermen if it goes wrong with a measure, because they don't have a choice. They don't have a choice because they don't have any money.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u261	Maybe it wasn't such a good comment. Then I'll take it right back. But you asked which municipalities I knew about, and I happened to know about Amsterdam, because I spoke to them myself. At the same time, however, Amsterdam, but also all other municipalities, has received a budget for the entire target group. I've raised the budget. That is €800 for the target group of 120%. I think I have been standing here all evening arguing that lectures are allowed to make other choices and that I also think we should not find any of that............................................................................................................................................................................................................... But it's not like they didn't get a budget for the target group, because I raised it even more.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u262	I don't want to repeat myself, but I think we should get this very sharp. We now hear all evening: municipalities decide for themselves; we have the house of Thorbecke, so that's what the council is about. Municipalities have social minimum rates and they have decided, for example, in their municipality, in the house of Thorbecke: we have a limit of 130% of the social minimum or 125%. The Minister wants to respect that. In terms of budget, we just don't respect that. By the way, it also makes it easier for the municipality to decide on this, because the people for whom you conduct your social minimum policy, you have in mind. So why is it legitimate to say that the Empire decides on the budget, and to say all other things that are up to the municipality? I'd like to just get that sharp, because I don't feel like repeating this all the time. We see a discrepancy there.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u263	That is because there will then be a great difference in what the Empire transfers to the municipalities, because that will depend on the choice they have made. I do not think this is fair when a municipality says: we have different frameworks for our social minimum policy, so the Empire has to pay extra money because we have now opted for different frameworks than municipalities that have made that more stringent. Here I wanted to make the budgets generic for everyone, where the largest common denominator was 120% legal social minimum.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u264	Then why wasn't it chosen, for example, to supplement or say: then you get extra? You do choose to say for those municipalities that already had a policy for social minima in that house of Thorbecke with that council and those aldermen: I do not respect that part of the house of Thorbecke, because that suits me well for the wallet.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u265	That's not true. This is, of course, a budget that we are adding. The minimum policy currently pursued by the municipalities concerns their own choices, including with their own local tax area. For example, the revenues they derive from this are used for, among other things, the minimum policy. The municipalities make their own choices. They can choose to redistribute within the village or city. It is not that, with the budgets I establish, I am increasing the differences between all these municipalities. The municipalities that have a somewhat more austere minimum policy would receive less money from me than the municipalities that have a somewhat broader minimum policy. There are also municipalities that currently have a minimum policy with 110% of the statutory social minimum. They also received money to pay out 120%, because we think that 120% is the weighted average of all the schemes that exist. Then I would allocate different budgets per municipality, while the scheme is for the target group that we have just established with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u266	Finally. I see other colleagues have stepped up. A colleague of ours has just asked the Minister for information. I very much agree with that request for information and I hope that the Minister will send us that information. Get in touch with the VNG, get everyone on the phone, but we'd really like that overview.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u267	I have just said that I am trying to give an overview of the differences that exist. I do that on the basis of the information we collect ourselves. I'm not gonna ask municipalities what the scheme looks like. I will forward that summary to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u268	That's too generic. We did this to the Tozo. We ask for a few specific data, including whether or not to apply a power key. Yeah, that's probably gonna take some time and work, if necessary through the VNG. But that's the question. Specifically on this element we would like to know which municipalities apply a power test. We'd like to get that information from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u269	I'll see how far I can get with the information, but that's based on public sources I know. I'll ask our people to get a good look at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u270	I don't think the Minister's in a good mood. Information is requested here. That seems to me to be a matter of having someone call around the municipalities. Then that information is above the table and can be shared with the Chamber. If that's even a problem! My question concerns the debate on 120%/130%. For those who are following this debate, it is a question of which group of people will receive the supplement and which group will not receive the supplement. The Minister says that we cannot allocate a different budget to different municipalities, because that would not be fair. The discussion focuses on the fact that there are municipalities that have a limit of 130% instead of 120%, which was used in the calculation of the budget. Wouldn't it be the simplest and best solution to recalculate the budget on the basis of 130%, so that municipalities that rely on 130% can continue to provide support? Municipalities which have assumed 120% will then receive a little more budget to increase the group receiving support.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u271	We've had this discussion before. Mr Van Kent and other members of this Chamber felt that the overall budget needed to be increased to reach the entire target group of 130%. I raised all the budget in May to ensure that at least 100% can be achieved. Even if municipalities are left with money, for whatever reason, I hope not, I would say to Mrs Podt that municipalities can keep it themselves, for example in order to pursue other minimum policies. I also hear, for example, that municipalities that have left money to the Tozo are now making use of this scheme. Municipalities have some freedom to use the means to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u272	Does the Minister remember my question?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u273	We have already had the debate on the choice of 120% over 130%. We may differ on this, but the cabinet has chosen 120% and made the entire budget available for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u274	My question was: if we take that 130% when calculating the amount that municipalities need to receive, can a municipality like Apeldoorn continue with the policy as it has always been, i.e. minimum schemes up to 130%? They do not have to take money out of pots at the expense of other things in order to be able to carry out this 130%, because municipalities are already struggling. At the request of the national government, at the request of this minister, they will implement an arrangement, but they will have to make money out of their own pocket if they wish to continue the border they have always used. That's unfair. Therefore again the question: why not opt for the simple solution and start from 130% so that you respect that municipalities that count with the 130% can also make their provision in that way? For the SP, "we have already discussed it once and the cabinet has made a different assessment" is not an argument. We're here to see if we can solve the problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u275	Sure. Again, we have had this discussion before in the purchasing power debate. We have looked at the largest common denominator in the municipalities' minimum policies, which is 120%. There are municipalities that have a higher border and there are municipalities that have a lower border. We have chosen precisely the great common denominator and set the budget for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u276	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u277	The average municipality does not exist. There are also municipalities that have a scheme larger than that common denominator, and they are then forced to adapt their borders on the basis of which they grant people a scheme, or to adapt from their own pockets to enable them to carry out what the Empire is asking them to do. So, if you're looking for a common denominator, just sit at the top, so municipalities that have a broader arrangement get enough budget from the Empire to implement it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u278	I think we're still at odds. Mr Van Kent's position is respectable and well-known.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u279	Let me look at it from another side. The Minister looked at the common denominator with regard to minimum policy. But that is a minimal policy that is not based on this crisis. This crisis is new. The minimum policy is based on the purchasing power that people have in recent years. The minimum policy has been adapted to that. But the minimum policy is now not adapted to the crisis. The 120% minimum policy is based on recent years and not on the current situation. The scheme is now with the municipalities. Could we not do it in such a way that we see exactly what these municipalities are doing with these budgets? Mr Van Baarle asked the same question. That's what the minister said she could tell you. If it shows that the majority of the municipalities, because the crisis is different from previous years, have had to do more out of their own resources because the people really aren't going to make it, is the Minister prepared to look again at what is needed in terms of budget towards the municipalities?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u280	We made the frameworks very clear to the municipalities when this regulation came into force. This was known to the municipalities. They have made their own choices whether or not they would add anything to it. A number of municipalities have done this and, as has been said, a number of municipalities have not. At least I made it possible for them to do the 120%. In fact, Mr De Jong asks: should we not look at people's purchasing power in a broad sense? That's how I hear him ask his question. I think that's a broader issue. This energy surcharge is not the only instrument we have to meet people's purchasing power. As Mr De Kort said, we have taken over 6 billion in generic measures to ensure that we can meet people. But this arrangement has been discussed with the VNG in this way. The entire budget has been allocated to implement the scheme in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u281	I know. During the debate on all these other questions, the Minister put this question about fifty times. That is why I have asked a different question than what is now being answered. We, as PVV, find the energy surcharge too low. We have tabled an amendment and are going to see whether or not the Chamber agrees. We want it to be put a lot higher and we also have cover for it. That is another political discussion. The cabinet has presented, made available and allocated funds to the municipalities, on the basis of 120%, also on the basis of a crisis that is unique at the moment, great. The minimum policy is based on what has happened in recent years. That's not based on the story that's going on right now. Does the Minister understand where I'm going with this? Let's say in practice that people, seeing that their energy bill has become three times higher, are knocking on the door of the municipalities and that municipalities, more than they have previously anticipated in the conversations with you, eventually find out that they still need to make more money available for that target group. What if it turns out that 120% is actually not enough for most of the municipalities? Suppose that is now shown by an evaluation, a measurement moment, are you prepared to sit down with the municipalities again and see if we should not increase the budget?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u282	In my view, the question then arises: is the level of special assistance sufficient? That is actually the general question. Do the municipalities have enough, precisely when they see that people are going to make more use of it? That seems to me to be part of the debate next week on the Spring Note. In general, what are the opportunities and the means to meet people's purchasing power? Many municipalities still have the same frameworks around the minimum policy. In that sense, there has not been much change in that regard. I do not know the latest state of affairs of all the lectures that are being formed at the moment. My picture is that the generic is still around 120% legal social minimum. But is this a discussion that is actually broader and is about the purchasing power of people in a municipality?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u283	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u284	I think I should rephrase it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u285	Short and powerful, perhaps?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u286	I'm gonna do my best. It's a legislative meeting, so I can stand here for 15 minutes, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u287	That depends.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u288	Over the past year, we have seen that inflation has been huge. In October, November, December, January we saw a huge increase. Now it's come to some sort of boiling point. For that whole period there was minimal policy. That was gross modo 120%. Now we have a new, unique situation. However, until now, the municipalities have generally based their minimum policies on that which did not happen before the crisis. Now people are in the middle of the crisis. Because we're in the middle of it right now, it could be that adjustments are needed. I'm not talking about the broad purchasing power story. I have made all kinds of proposals for the broad purchasing power story. I am referring specifically to what is now in the Chamber, namely the energy surcharge. If the municipalities thought they had enough 120% gross mode, but the practice shows that this is not the case, is the minister willing to go again with the municipalities to the table and see what is needed?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u289	This is the regulation I am now putting forward, this is the one we are discussing today, and this is the one I support. For everything we may need in the future, I refer to next week's debate on the Spring Note. I think that there is a need to look more broadly at the options. This is the arrangement that we are discussing today. Of these, the frameworks have already been widely shared. Mr. Chairman. I come to Mr Eerdmans' question. He says that there has been a lack of clarity and asks whether this has had a restrictive effect on the scheme. In the beginning there was some uncertainty, especially about the budgets. That's what I just explained: municipalities said they'd gotten the money, but not for the whole target group, so they started acting reluctantly to make sure they didn't have to pay the bill themselves, which gets away from it. It has been the reason for me to increase the budget. I have been told by the large municipalities that about 10,000 requests per week are processed. That's really significant. Divosa and the VNG informed me yesterday that some municipalities have already reached between 80% and 90% of the target group. So it's going to go on now. This applies to a number of municipalities and not yet to the whole. I think we can say that a huge achievement is being achieved by the municipalities. Just for clarity: municipalities can pay the surcharge until 31 December. So if they don't do it now, it's not like the momentum's gone. The time is still there, but the picture is that most municipalities are already a long way on. Mrs Podt said that the application process is complicated and asks if anything can be made up about it. In the case of an application, it is necessary to know who is submitting the application. Therefore, the use of DigiD is obvious in a digital application. Many municipalities support applicants for whom the procedure is too complicated. I see that they are using a lot of instruments, such as district teams, libraries, companies, churches and mosques. Really in all places there are counters and opportunities to support people in their application. That's very nice, because I think this helps the people who experience such an application as complex. Mrs Podt asked whether a progress report on the payment of the supplement could be given. I have just explained that it is not the case that congregations answer to me for what they do. I'm not gonna charge them with that monitoring burden, not at all now that they're having such a hard time with the way things are going. I can give another picture in Q3, just like the letter I sent last week in connection with the talks with VNG: how are things going, what's the state of things? That way I can do it. Mr Ceder also asked a question about the difference between the regulations in the various municipalities. I've already explained that. Mr De Kort asked about municipalities that paid the surcharge wrongly. I have no idea if municipalities are doing good or bad. They don't report that to me. However, I speak with the VNG every week to hear how the implementation is in general. About half of it has already been granted on its own initiative, so you already know that it is within the framework, because it is known. We all make mistakes, I say. If the Empire does it, unfortunately, it is not that things are going better by definition. Also within the Empire mistakes are sometimes made in the execution. The same may be true of municipalities. Yesterday I read in the AD about a case where things had not gone well. That can happen, I'm just saying. But it's not my image that there are all kinds of mistakes creeping in. I can see that the municipalities are careful when paying the surcharge. Mrs Palland has asked about municipalities that pay over the year. Whether municipalities pay at once or spread over the year is a choice they can make themselves. Most of the municipalities have now started everything that could already be granted on their own, whether in one go or not, three times or more over a number of months. Mrs Palland also asked about the risk of the low advances and what we are doing about them. That's a broader question. Together with the Minister for Climate and Energy, I will talk to the energy suppliers tomorrow about avoiding payment problems in households as much as possible due to the increased energy bill. The Minister for VRO is also closely involved in these talks, from the initiatives in the National Housing and Construction Agenda to isolate the homes. We must also take account of the structural situation, ensuring that houses are better isolated and not as energy intensive. You actually have to stitch the whole thing on both sides. I have also recently spoken with the NVVK about the risks that are seen there on the basis of the claims on debt relief, early warning and so on. That's what they're gonna use now. Such insights are used to identify the best ways of ensuring that we do not reach the target group that unfortunately has to deal with debt problems too late. We are also trying to draw people's attention to the Money Box and Money Fit, because that way we can avoid the huge accumulation of problems. If you get there very quickly, early warning will help you to direct people directly to the good offices that help people to prevent the problems from getting even bigger.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u290	It's good to hear they're trying to avoid debt. This is a scheme to accommodate households in the energy account. My fear is that if you haven't adjusted anything in the low advances, you can still face high bills afterwards, when the money has already been spent on other things. Is there any way of pointing that out, for example when the money is being paid out, or in communication about it, in order to avoid this problem? Are we gonna do something about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u291	It is not the case that it is said by default: pay attention, this money must be put into the energy account, or something like that. Of course, it also differs per person whether your contract expires or not. We are trying to make it clear on all points, just like the municipalities: beware, don't keep running too long with too low advances. That is why I have discussions with energy suppliers, among others, tomorrow, because of course they are already seeing things. Maybe that could be included in the early warning. What does it mean at the end of the year if the advances have not yet been adjusted? For example, can you give a signal about that already? I hope that this kind of measure will also be discussed with the energy suppliers tomorrow. This was the block about the arrangement. Then I have a block on the extension of the target group, but I think I have already answered a number of questions in the interruptions, such as the 120% versus the 130%. Mrs Kathmann has asked for an overview of the municipalities of how they allocate it. I have made a promise that I will make that broadly understandable. Mrs Maatoug and Mr Van Kent also asked questions about 120% and 130%. I think I answered all those questions in the interruptions, Mr President. Then I come to the issue of the publication of the regulation. I was just giving a peek at that. An information package has been sent to some 45 organisations that are in contact with low-income households or with payment problems. There's a targeted Facebook campaign. The social media of SZW, Facebook, LinkedIn and Instagram contain information. But also the municipalities, with the neighborhood approach at various places, the elderly organisations..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... That way we do a lot to reach the target group. Mr Stoffer asked for that too. I think I just agreed to that, too. More generally, Mrs Maatoug noted that there was reluctance on the part of people to apply. There is sometimes some kind of distrust or fear in the sense of: if I apply for something, that is going to have consequences. We try to make it clear in all possible ways that this €800 has no consequences for a benefit, for other supplements or whatever. Mr Ceder had a question about Wsnp, namely whether, if this €800 has to be repaid, it will have consequences for the Wsnp. That €800 doesn't have to be refunded. Once you get it, it's given. I would like to highlight this once again.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u292	That's great, what you're saying about the $800. But my point was about a note you get when you have to pay back your energy bill. Next year, a lot of people get a note like that. That's a debt. People in the Wsnp shouldn't be blamed. If you have a new debt, it will cause problems and, by law, you'll be knocked out of the Wsnp. I hope we can prevent that from happening for that group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u293	I would have misunderstood the question. I understood it as if the energy surcharge had to be repaid. In any case, I will look into how we can prevent it from leading to a problem at the Wsnp when people are suddenly confronted with a higher energy note and immediately have a debt if they haven't adjusted it in time. I'll check this out, I'll discuss this and I'll inform your room about the results. Mrs Podt asked very specifically how people outside the target group and foreign speakers are being looked at, that is to say, those who are even more difficult to reach. Here too, we try to connect as much as possible with the natural places where people come and where others can help. Other speakers can meet other people in the mosque, but that can also be in the district building where they meet. We'll make sure we reach them in those places, too. I also understand that they do not follow the social media of SZW and all understand exactly what is written there. We're really trying to fit in. These were the questions that had remained to be answered about the remaining cases under the scheme. I now come to the students, also a subject that has a lot of attention from your Chamber. Let me explain very clearly what exactly is in the legislative proposal and how it was built up. The bill itself does not exclude groups from the right to a one-off energy surcharge, not even students. In the national directive, i.e. in the model regulation, we advised, in consultation with the municipalities, that students as a category should be excluded from the right to a one-off energy surcharge, i.e. as an entire category. This is because, for example, we see that half of the students live at home with parents and therefore do not have their own energy bill, which concerns a significant proportion of the residents living out of residence who have an inclusive rental price, so a rent including energy bill, and that there are often multiple people living together in a dormitory and you would have the situation that in a house with five students could apply for €800 each while it is one house where several people live. So you'd get a high compensation for that group. This diversity in living situations is the reason why we have said that it is better to opt for individual special assistance as a targeted tool to accommodate students who are threatened with financial distress due to the whole circumstance. There are municipalities that have already taken into account in their policy rules students who come to apply for energy aid through the special assistance. This way you can meet the group as accurately as possible. It has been asked whether it is not complicated for students to get a concession if you shape it that way. In the large whole of the cases you agree with the rules that apply to the special assistance in its entirety, i.e. to all residents living in such a municipality. As mentioned above, there are a number of municipalities that have specified it specifically for students. Delft is an example of this. It has specified the scheme for students with an independent account, an own account, for energy. Those students can go straight to the window for the energy surcharge. So the municipality is dealing with it in a variety of ways. The bill regulates the categorical approach and, as has been said, there is too much difference between the situations of students. Moreover, young people under the age of 21 are also subject to parental maintenance obligations, even now in this special assistance. This means that in principle these young people are not already eligible for special assistance, because it is assumed that their parents can contribute to the cost of living. Another exception can be made, as with DUO, when your parents are not in the picture or do not contribute in any way. There is also a specific arrangement for this. But in any case it applies to students from 21 years of age, because it is assumed that parents up to 21 years of age take care of their children. Mr Stoffer also asked about the targeted measure. I have just said how we have given this form and discussed it with the VNG. Mrs Podt asks if I have any insight into student payment problems and how many students have applied for special assistance. It is quite difficult to see if a student is in the payment problems just by not granting the energy surcharge. Often these are more financially vulnerable students who are already struggling. Of course, we also have contacts with student unions. For example, LSVb has shown us cases of students getting into financial difficulties. That is why I would like to emphasise that students in this situation can really go to the municipality for special assistance. However, as has been said, this group is too diverse to be able to make it categorically open.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u294	Mr. Van Baarle, is it good that the Minister first answers all questions about students?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u295	I'm running out of questions. Mrs Podt asks: which students are eligible? As said, students are not excluded in the legislative proposal, but municipalities really see what they could do in a specific case. There are municipalities that have really developed a viable way of working. On the basis of questions that I still get from the municipalities themselves, I will also talk to them soon. At least, that's what our people do. We're gonna see what else they're gonna run into. If they want more targeted information on how to deal with the target group, we will examine with each other what solutions we can find. Mrs Kathmann asks: is the special assistance budget sufficient if they are to finance all these students from the special assistance? It is true that they did not receive specific funding for special assistance for students. That's what Mrs Podt mentioned earlier. There is, however, an additional increase in the budget for special assistance so that they could pay for this type of business and thus meet the students in a very targeted way. Mr Eerdmans asks: what are the total cost of granting the energy surcharge to the whole group? We didn't calculate the exact size, because we didn't include the students. But according to a first rough approach, of course, that also depends on the precise demarcation, as far as you can make up for it, it would cost between EUR 100 million and EUR 150 million if you brought the group with you categorically. Mrs Palland asked: are students actually aware of this route, so they can report to the municipality if they get into trouble? As mentioned above, a number of municipalities have already developed a methodology for students. They're communicating. DUO only pays attention to the individual study fee on its own website, but I would like to check with OCW, DUO and the VNG to see if we can provide additional information for these students on the websites. Those were the questions about students, Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u296	This is so incredibly hard in the direction of many students who have to carry these energy loads themselves, because now they are simply excluded from a generic rule. This is just a hard-ass blow to their faces. My question to the Minister is why it was initially chosen to rule out students generically and not to say in the direction of municipalities: perhaps it is not good to pay it out to all students, but to students who live independently and pay the energy bill themselves? This is not about a very large group of students, because it is about 10%, as the government says. So we know how many there are. So you could have given the budget for it at the front. Why isn't that done?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u297	I just tried to explain that. The group is very different, where there are also very specific situations. That group is really so specific that if you're going to apply it generically, it's going to be too big. Mr Van Baarle mentions a number of exclusion criteria, so he has already defined the group a little more. But still, it's pretty wide. That is why we say: we need to look carefully at what we could do, for example, about the special assistance for these people. I believe that Mr Van Baarle had another question about the income limits for a supplementary grant. Do they have to borrow at most first? In all schemes, an additional grant is a present provision. If students can get money in another way, well, they don't get it, but borrow it to live on, then they have to do it first. This is added to the income, for example when you look at whether you are eligible for the energy surcharge. That's about $900. Students often earn extra money. Then you get very specific situations in which differences arise. For example, someone has a self-contained living area and an own energy bill, but also a present facility, so that it will be taken into account in total with the assistance. That makes it more complex to do it very categorically. That is why we have said that an individual instrument is better suited to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u298	Yes, but under the overall scheme, such individual circumstances, which can make the complex, can occur in the overall target group. The argument, the exclusion ground, is: a diverse housing situation. That is the reason mentioned in the opinion and the bill for categorically excluding students. Yeah, the living situation is diverse. And yes, a large part of the students may still live at home and may not need it at all. But let's turn it around. Because part of the group may not need it, we say to the group that does need it: you just don't get it. And then you have to call on a scheme in which you have to meet much more requirements than the energy allowance. It would simply have been possible if it was not possible, then I would like to hear it from the Minister to put in the opinion: municipalities, give it to students who pay the energy bill themselves and have their own home? Is it true that that doesn't cost so much money? It's only 10%.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u299	In any case, the law does not designate any category or exclude any. I want to make that clear one more time. We have put forward proposals in the model regulation on how to deal with this. It states that we have given advice that this group should not be granted categorically. I think I have just given all the arguments. This is not only the complex living situation, but also the fact that it is often about rooms in which you have multiple residents in one house. This then has to do with inclusive bills of rental and energy contracts in one. You also often see that the present provision has to be applied for first, namely the supplementary grant, and that this is also taken into account, which means that you are going to get very much a demarcation. In there you do keep cases that are poignant. We have said that you should go to the special assistance, also because of its purpose and to ensure that you reach those people in that way. Otherwise, you're going to give a larger group of money that is actually too diverse in that situation, so on the other hand you can reach the people who really need it much better.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u300	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u301	I don't see the complexity of what the Minister says. All the things that the minister here says are so complex, namely what is someone's exact living situation and whether someone has already applied for an additional scholarship, relate to information that can be shared incredibly quickly. It is no great difficulty to say towards a very large group of students in the Netherlands: you simply have no right to that measure that the rest of the Netherlands gets. If you're in the same situation as your neighbor, but you're studying, you're not gonna get what your neighbor gets because you're studying. That's really unfair. I don't think it's complicated enough to say that we'll categorically rule out that group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u302	I understand that, but this has just been the trade-off. In my view, we have also indicated why this situation is often very different for students than for other target groups. That you live in a house more often and that the energy surcharge could be applied for for for all those people in that house, that's really a different situation than when you have one household that you charge for. If you categorically say "do it" for the whole group, then you can also argue the other way around that you get an imbalance with all kinds of other families that don't have that situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u303	I have two questions. I think I have to agree with the colleague of DENK in one thing. Many students, of course, still have the image of 'we are not part of it; we are not entitled to anything'. I also tried to say in my contribution that I think we should make it clear that they may not be entitled to this energy surcharge, but that there are certainly solutions for them too. So I should like to ask the Minister how we are going to make that clear. How are we gonna get students to know that they can go to their congregation? That is, of course, not the most logical place for students to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u304	In my view, I have just promised this in response to Mrs Palland's question by simply making sure that the website contains the right information about the existence of this possibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u305	Yes... I think it will take a little bit more than putting this on a website here and there, but I'll give the Minister a moment to think about that. Perhaps in the extension of that, I also asked a question about that loan. Of course, it has been said a number of times: municipalities are free to ask for anything. But I would like to ask the Minister whether, like D66, she thinks that this is really undesirable and that, like other people, you cannot, of course, say to students that they should first just put themselves in debt completely. That does not seem to me to be a very desirable situation before they can have the right to that individual special assistance.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u306	That is already the case. That's nothing new. Study funding is seen as a present provision for special assistance, for example. At the moment, students must first apply for the supplementary grant and, if they need it, also apply for the loan before they can also be entitled to the other facilities. Up to 21 years old, this also includes the maintenance obligation of parents. These are, therefore, all existing criteria which already apply to students if they wish to benefit from a certain scheme.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u307	Mrs Podt, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u308	I can see why it's an existing thing. I think we're in a slightly different situation now. I really don't think it's right for us to ask students.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u309	Then you really get the situation that students who do have opportunities to provide for their income in a different way... I am very happy that a basic grant is being introduced again, I say again, because I also find it undesirable that all kinds of debts should be made. I do not know why we should suddenly abandon this system, whereas in other situations it is. This applies at the moment to all state schemes for students, except for the care allowance, which they can apply for. Students living in a room with each other, for example, cannot apply for a rent allowance. Those aspects are thus already different.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u310	I've been out of leather a few times, so I'm gonna try not to now. I have a bit of a feeling that this debate is completely detached from people's heads, hearts, needs and abdominal pain. One in five young people camped in corona time with suicidal tendencies. And the biggest problem the cabinet now sees for students is: oh, no, imagine, in a moment we're going to help too many students! That's the biggest problem now. That is why an arrangement is being made which is said to be: there is an arrangement, there is something. D66 then easily says: we just need to tell you where the counter is. Here are lists, lists of students who say they don't make it anymore. They say: I was already depressed and I don't have any money to do anything anymore, not even to finish the study, because the costs for books or mention it at its sky high; I can't turn to that individual special assistance at all, because at those counters I have to prove in some way that I have x more costs than before and I can't do that, so I'll never be eligible for that full €800, let alone for an amount. Mr Van Baarle's question is very clear. Many people have indicated that they all know that you should not help students who live with their parents, live in their own homes or have a lot of money. We have mentioned percentages a few times. 10% of students need help.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u311	Mrs Kathmann, your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u312	Yeah, it's coming now. They need to be helped to the left or right. There is one thing we know: with special assistance, it is not going to work. Here they all indicate: that is not our window, we are not being helped there. The question is this. It can't be in the special assistance. In the measure is the advice: the students are not included. Can't we come up with a measure tonight that will give 10% of the students the help they need? Mr Van Baarle already outlined this. We want an answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u313	I've explained what choices we've made. I note that Mrs Kathmann does not agree with that. It's okay. The most targeted thing we can do for students is to arrange it through the special assistance. That's the route we indicated here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u314	This is an important subject for Members of Parliament. Mrs Maatoug.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u315	One of the things we all agree on tonight is that implementation is important. I think the intention is the same somewhere. I hope so. What we get back from the municipalities on the route of special assistance, specifically from the municipalities where many students live I just gave the example of Breda and that also applies to other student cities... is that the special assistance system requires a lot. That is certainly the case as there are more students living in a particular area. Then it requires more implementation capacity and it is more complicated. Then it is not only the cost of the total budget, but it is also difficult to implement. That is what my question to the Minister is about. Now it is: we have the individual route. But of course it is not equally distributed throughout the country. I would like to hear from the Minister what we are saying to the municipalities that are really running into this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u316	We will soon have talks with these municipalities to see what bottlenecks they face. There are also municipalities that have solved it very well. For example, I mentioned Delft. They have made a very specific arrangement for that themselves. So you can see if that's something you can apply to that place. As has been said, the amount I have made available has made over EUR 50 million available for implementation costs and special assistance, precisely in order to provide this type of category.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u317	Finally. Okay, that's good for the implementation costs. But then we get to the point where this is a repetition, but just before the sharpness, because the distribution across the country is not the same that there are municipalities that have more students in their congregation. Different figures have been exchanged. There was a good question from D66: how many people are we talking about? But if you're going to use this route, there's going to be a bigger appeal in those municipalities. This is at the expense of other budgets. The whole country is, of course, watching this debate. Those students know they can come forward. The campaign's working. If that happens, you can really get in trouble, especially in those municipalities with a lot of students. Can the Minister promise that if that happens, or if municipalities do what we as the Empire ask them to do, then the budget is not a problem afterwards?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u318	One step ahead of that, I think it would be a good idea to keep an eye on the pulse as well: what exactly is happening in these municipalities? Is it true that so many students are eligible for this special assistance? I believe that this is a good first step, so that we can then see how things relate to each other. But as I said, there are also student cities that have made a specific arrangement within the framework of the current student scheme. That is also within the existing budgets. It is good to exchange these experiences with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u319	Then we go to the theme of purchasing power.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u320	Sure. A lot of questions have been asked about this, including all kinds of suggestions and proposals on how we could do it differently. I understand a lot of these questions. These are also questions that have already been raised in the debate on the Spring paper. I would like to refer to a letter which we, as a cabinet, have promised on the possibility of meeting purchasing power. That debate will be resumed next week, I understand. Then we'll go into those themes. In fact, I think that you may already be given more information in that letter about the questions you have asked about them.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u321	Many suggestions have been made by the SP, for example for an emergency plan. My question to the Minister is really simple: is she prepared to take any further steps tonight to embrace proposals or to announce new policies or to announce new money from the cabinet, to meet this huge need in the country because of the increased shopping prices, petrol prices and energy prices, yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u322	I believe that this is the debate on the Spring Note, which you are holding with the Finance Ministers and the Prime Minister. It looks more broadly at purchasing power. In my opinion, several suggestions have already been made, including by the SP. This will also be discussed by the cabinet at that time.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u323	So that's a very clear no.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u324	I'm in the process of legal treatment today. The debate on this is already under way.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u325	Next Tuesday we will discuss the Spring note. Then we'll prosecute the first term, but the MPs know that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u326	Then that information is completely provided. Mr Omtzigt asks: what exactly is the state of affairs around the committee? I always call it the Social Minimal Committee. In my view, this is what the coalition agreement says. I think that was also the term used in Mr Omtzigt's motion, but I am not sure. I said it this morning, but let me put it this way: I expect you to get information on this before the weekend. I can't make it much more specific. You have to keep an eye on your mailbox for two more days. So that's gonna get out pretty soon. Of course, this committee is also looking specifically at what Mr Omtzigt has previously asked for: what are the costs in such specific situations, for example, and what is a social minimum? Mr Omtzigt also asks: can there not already be an action plan for the minimum standard of living? I think it is very useful to take the ideas and insights of that committee with you, to know what you need to do to ensure that groups are met. That does not mean, of course, that we wait until the committee has done all its work before taking purchasing power measures. But I think that the results of that committee could also be an incentive to look into what is needed for this. Then I assume that Mr Wilders' amendments will be included in the Spring paper. Mr President, I believe that I have answered the questions raised by your Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u327	Thank you. Then I would like to thank the Minister for replying in the first term. I suggest we start immediately with the second term. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mrs Kathmann of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u328	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We are morally bankrupt when philanthropists have to stand up to organize livelihood security in the Netherlands. I just read that in the first quarter of this year a record profit of 81.5 billion was made by non-financial corporations, so it's just a political choice of this cabinet not to help people I see break every day because of the crisis they're in right now. Of course you have to compliment what is being tried to do today, to get that €800 to people as soon as possible, but we are trying to give you the insight that that is simply not enough, that people literally break down every day and that they really haven't gotten any trouble with us tonight. That is why I would like to table the next motion and we will also be participating in proposals from other colleagues who see the same crisis as we do. In the coming period we will certainly come to talk about the misery in which many Dutch people are in. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that students are excluded from the energy surcharge and that they are also affected by a high energy bill;]] [[Whereas municipalities do not have sufficient resources to support students through the individual special assistance;]] [[calls on the government for Princess Day to propose that students should also be entitled to the energy surcharge,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kathmann, Mr Maatoug, Mr Dassen, Mr De Hoop and Mr Westerveld.]] [[She's getting No. kst-36064-4]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u329	I'll take my time. Thank you, Mr President. Den Haag 130%, Hoeksche Waard 130%, Venray 130%, Utrecht 125%, Vijfheerenlanden 130%, Zwijndrecht 130%, Alblasserdam 130%, Sliedrecht 130%, Rotterdam 140%. This is a small grasp of municipalities that put it on the Internet. As far as I am concerned, the lectures in these municipalities are clear, unlike this cabinet that leaves these municipalities in the cold. These municipalities only get 120% money, but still take a step further, because they see that the people in their congregation need it. What does this large number of municipalities prove that, despite this government's tight budget, is taking a step further? That the budget is just too little. The government just doesn't give money to compensate people more. The same applies to the students, with a false reason to exclude this group: the housing situation is complex, some questions need to be answered. That is not the case with many students, but it is not the case with the group of DENK. I can only conclude that this is the result of political choices. There is simply no willingness to pay enough money to the people in the country to support them. At the students' point, I had a motion to change that. I heard Mrs Kathmann just filed a motion about students. I didn't get it all, so I'll file my motion and then we'll see if we can perhaps merge both motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to remove the categorical exclusion of students from the Energy Grant Directive in order to allow resident students with their own energy bill to receive the energy allowance;]] [[calls on the Government to compensate the municipalities for the financial compensation of students and this the coverage from the windfalls,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Baarle and Mr Kuzu.]] [[She's getting No. kst-36064-5]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u330	Mr. Chairman. Then there's another information request. I am sorry to have to make this request for information by means of a motion. I am also sorry that we have come to the point in this Chamber that, if I make an information request, I have to table a motion to get the information I am asking for. But alla, here's the motion you knew would come. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to forward to the Chamber an exhaustive overview of the requirements of municipalities for the energy surcharge,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Baarle, Mr Maatoug and Mr Kathmann.]] [[She's getting No. kst-36064-6]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u331	Thank you for the floor, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u332	Thank you, Mr. Van Baarle. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Maatoug van GroenLinks. It is indeed nice to seek cooperation if there are motions that are similar, I say. Mrs Maatoug, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u333	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I start by expressing my thanks and I join with the compliments the Minister gave to our municipalities, which every time we ask for them to be implemented, even if we change them again. They do that for the people of the country, and that deserves our compliments. I thought this debate was quite a struggle. The struggle is the inconvenience that we have that we are actually conducting generic income policies, we have chosen an instrument because it was easy, and then we are sinking into the local domain. I'm not in the mood for well-leashes and inconsistencies either, but I really don't like the way we stood here tonight. I also find it undesirable that it is then unclear what is the income-political position of the cabinet over, for example, students. Then I understand very well that municipalities in the country say: I don't know what I can do, because I have this special assistance route, but I know with the population I have in my municipality and I don't know if I can allocate these numbers, because then we might have a gap in the budget at the end of the year. I hope the Minister will say something about this shortly, because just a finger on the wrist is not enough. We have learned with the Tozo and other arrangements that you will be very careful and that people will not know that you can apply for it. That means de facto that people who need it tremendously are not getting those numbers and those bills are rising. I find that very problematic. I don't want us to say in a few months' time: do you remember that we talked about it that one Wednesday sometime in June all night? That is why I am very pleased with the motion. Then I have one more motion. It's about the struggle, too. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that several municipalities have minimal policies for people with an income of up to 130% of the social minimum;]] [[noting that a budget has been made available for the provision of an energy supplement to people with an income of up to 120% of the social minimum;]] [[whereas municipalities therefore have to either make up their own money or make choices to whom they may or may not pay the surcharge;]] [[calls on the government to financially compensate municipalities that pay the energy surcharge to people with an income above 120% social minimum,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Maatoug and Mr Kathmann.]] [[She's getting No. kst-36064-7]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u334	Let's really respect Thorbecke's house and not just use it when it suits us. Moreover, I believe that the minimum wage should be raised.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u335	Thank you, Mrs Maatoug. Then I give the floor to Mr Van Kent of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u336	That minimum wage must also go to €15 as soon as possible, absolutely. Mr. Chairman. We talked for a couple of hours and we haven't really gotten any further in the sense that the people, like the lady I spoke to at the mall, who couldn't afford the groceries anymore, the one with the high energy bill, and the one who can visit the family less often because the fueling has become priceless, haven't gotten any better tonight. In fact, people who had hope because they were students or because they thought there might still be movement are disappointed, I see in the messages that come in. That's what I'm blaming this minister for. There's been a major crisis. There's poverty. This Minister is the Minister for Poverty Policy. I really expected the Minister tonight to be aware of the urgency and great needs in the country and that there would be more possible tonight to support the people in the country who are incredibly difficult at the moment. That disappoints me very much. I assume and hope that next week there will be a large emergency package that will really help people. We will have that debate with the Prime Minister next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u337	Thank you, Mr. Van Kent. Then I give the floor to Mr Stoffer of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u338	Mr. Chairman. I would, of course, like to thank the Minister for answering the many questions, in particular the way in which we have dealt with this law and how we might do this differently in the future. It's been clearly explained. You can find all kinds of things, but it has been the most practical way. I would like to make the point that hopefully we will do it differently next time. There's been enough change. The Minister and I were in quite a good relationship this week, but in order not to make it too clumsy, I would like to propose one motion. That motion is about energy poverty. I had the impression that the Minister indicated in the debate that this actually belongs to the Spring Note. I can imagine that, but we are talking here about the Minister for Poverty Policy. The motion is not aimed at what we could actually do directly in the Spring Paper this year, but rather at preventing us from reacting immediately to incidents. I now have the impression from the Chamber that we are going from incident to incident and are reacting too late each time. Hence a motion on the monitoring of energy poverty. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that citizens have long been faced with significant increases in energy prices and rising inflation;]] [[whereas there is energy poverty affecting, in particular, lower and middle incomes, and it is expected that this situation will not be brought to an end for the time being;]] [[calls on the Government to monitor how the problems of poverty and debt arising from energy prices continue to develop, and to report regularly to the Court,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Stoffer and Mr Maatoug.]] [[She's getting No. kst-36064-8]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u339	Mr. Chairman. Again in the coloring. The motion is therefore not aimed at the fact that something needs to be done very immediately. The point is that we in the Chamber should keep a close eye on what is coming so that we can consider some more structural measures with each other at an early stage. I think that not only helps the people in the country, but also helps us as a room to stay calm. I think it might be easier for the cabinet to get what the Chamber wants to do on behalf of society, a little more flatter through the Chamber. I think it's a great motion. If that's true, we'll be hearing from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u340	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Eerdmans, JA21.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u341	Yeah, the more I've read the motion, I've gotten excited about it. No, we're not gonna make it as clumsy as the SGP. It is true that we are pleased with the answers. We don't agree with everything, but it's a good thing you've gone along with everything. There is still a great deal to be done in the area of poverty and purchasing power, I think. For that we would rather spend the incentive than thank you already. I would like to draw your attention to an encouragement to this. That's the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that inflation, rising prices and falling purchasing power are hitting millions of Dutch households;]] [[Considering that, logically, a great deal of attention is paid to its impact on the lowest incomes;]] [[having noted, however, that the Nibud, the CPB and the VNG, among others, also strongly warn against serious financial consequences for middle incomes;]] [[noting that people with a (low) middle income are often not eligible for regular supplements and are not eligible for the energy surcharge;]] [[Whereas the financial problems facing this group remain under-exposed in purchasing power measures and debates;]] [[calls on the Government to conduct a comprehensive short-term review of the financial risks to medium-term middle income in the short, medium and long term;]] [[calls on the Government to propose solutions to address these risks,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Eerdmans and Mr Omtzigt.]] [[She's getting No. kst-36064-9]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u342	Thank you. I shall now give the floor to Mr De Jong, PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u343	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. While Dutch people can't make it anymore, can't refuel normally, can't pay rent, can't do groceries and can't pay the energy bill, it's true that the political choice here today has been made to not really tackle the terrible consequences of inflation. While this can be done, EUR 100 billion in climate and nitrogen policy, a huge amount, should be returned in part to all those people who are suffering so badly at the moment. This is on purpose not being done. All I get is "no" in answer, whether I ask my question to the coalition or to the minister. This is a serious scandal, because it is causing more and more people to fall into poverty and more and more people to face major financial problems. We can't do that to people. Mr. Chairman. As you know, we have tabled a number of amendments. Next week, a number of these amendments will also come back to the Spring paper. I want to get an amendment out of it now. That is Mr Wilders' amendment to substantially increase the energy surcharge, which we were actually talking about today, by €400 so that it totals €1,200. I sincerely hope that this very realistic proposal can count on broad support from the Chamber, because then we will really show all of us that we care about those people and that we really want to help them not to get into trouble. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u344	Thank you, Mr. De Jong. Then I give the floor to Mrs Podt, D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u345	Mr. Chairman. The key question for me today was: will the target group with this scheme be reached quickly and well? It requires low thresholds, good communication and a proactive approach to municipalities. In particular, I have focused on students. The idea that they are not supported has been wrongly created, and we must fight this image actively. That's why I made the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that students are not entitled to the category special assistance;]] [[Whereas there are student households which may be affected by the increased energy bill;]] [[considers that these students should be able to contact their municipality for support in an easily accessible way;]] [[calls on the Government to be very active in promoting students' right of access, to discuss with municipalities whether it is possible to reach students, to monitor with cities with a large student population whether they come up with the available budget and to urge them not to require students to borrow maximum from DUO in the case of individual special assistance,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Podt.]] [[She's getting No. kst-36064-10]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u346	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u347	Thank you. I shall now give the floor to Mr Ceder, Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u348	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We have had a good and long debate on whether this measure is the right one. In my opinion, we all conclude that this is not going to solve everything, but that it does offer relief. I think it's the right balance. I have indicated in my contribution that I am concerned about the future. We have concluded that we are going to talk about this and that we are all keeping a close eye on it. I have heard a number of motions and amendments. I'm going to study it quietly. I would like to thank the Minister and the Members of Parliament for having been able to hold this debate together. I hope that in the coming months we will all stand firm for those very vulnerable groups for whom it is now so difficult and difficult. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u349	Thank you, Mr. Ceder. Then I give the floor to Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u350	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Although it is a tough debate, we are talking about the core of the problem we are facing in the Netherlands, namely in the midst of a security of life crisis, where 1.2 million households will have to save on food or energy, or probably on both, not to get into debt very quickly. That's painful. I understand the government's attempt to do this this way. I also understand the design. But if you ask me, I think that this year there has been a little too little money allocated, and'something' is euphemistic in comparison with the other measures we have seen in recent times. This is both about the inefficient use of nitrogen and climate funds, and I have just mentioned a few examples of this as well as reducing the energy tax for everyone. This could have been a little more targeted, because we now have a category of people who can't. I would also point out to the government that I suspect that at the end of the year we are faced with quite a number of legal cases, quite a number of conflicts, about the implementation of this arrangement. This could have been avoided by treating it more quickly. Mr President, I have a number of motions for resolutions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that there are strong price increases in basic food and energy needs and that in the heavy CPB scenario 1.2 million households need to save on either or both of them in order to live on a monthly basis;]] [[calls on the government to formulate and present within six months a long-term strategy for the food security and energy security of Dutch households, which addresses the following issues:]] [[the degree of self-sufficiency for both necessary living needs of the Netherlands and the degree of fixed contracts/supply channels of reliable countries;]] [[the affordability of energy and the way in which households will be helped to keep their energy bills affordable in the coming years, including through insulation or rental discounts for non-isolated homes;]] [[the affordability of healthy food, including in times of global food scarcity or interrupted trade routes, and the support of people who have (temporary) insufficient money for food and energy,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[considers that the energy surcharge is intended for households who have to live up to less than 120% of the social minimum;]] [[calls on the government not to transfer the full benefit to municipalities which apply a ceiling of less than 120% of the social minimum or impose other additional restrictions,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Omtzigt, Mr Maatoug, Mr Kathmann, Mr Eerdmans, Mr Stoffer, Mr Van Kent, Mr Den Haan, Mr Dassen, Mr Ephraim, Mr Gündoğan and Mr Van Baarle.]] [[She's getting No. kst-36064-11]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Omtzigt, Mr Stoffer, Mr Eerdmans, Mr Den Haan, Mr Dassen, Mr Ephraim and Mr Gündoğan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-36064-12]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u351	Municipalities just have to use the money, or they'll have to pay back. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that exiting students face increased energy costs and that in many cases they can share the energy bill with roommates, but are not eligible for the supplement;]] [[calls on the government to include students in the plans, for example by making an amount of €250 available to municipalities or DUO for students who are not registered with their own parents (MBO, HBO, University),]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that a large group of citizens are facing major problems, but cannot make use of the scheme, such as, for example, single people earning 85% of the minimum wage;]] [[noting that there is an undesirable hardness in the scheme, namely that you get either €800 or €0 when you just have "too much" income;]] [[calls on the Government to adapt and extend the scheme along the following lines:]] [[introduce a second disc of €400 for a subsequent income category;]] [[to provide the municipalities with relatively generous funds for an energy surcharge for people outside the scheme, but still facing unsustainable costs,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Omtzigt, Mr Maatoug, Mr Kathmann, Mr Eerdmans, Mr Den Haan, Mr Dassen, Mr Ephraim, Mr Gündoğan and Mr Van Baarle.]] [[She's getting No. kst-36064-13]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Omtzigt, Mr Stoffer, Mr Eerdmans, Mr Den Haan, Mr Dassen, Mr Ephraim and Mr Gündoğan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-36064-14]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u352	Thank you. Finally, I would like to give the floor to Mrs Palland of the CDA. Mr De Kort waives his second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u353	Mr President, thank you. It's a good thing we're doing this. It is a good thing that we adopt this bill and meet people with the lowest incomes, even if it is not at all the best. That's what's in the process: we're handling the bill, while it's already been partially paid out, given the urgency. It's also in the difference that there is in municipalities and also in judgment. There is, of course, also a difference in people and the extent to which they are confronted with the rising energy prices of today. On the difference in how municipalities deal with it, Mrs Maatoug has already gone into detail. The choices that have been made, I understand, but it does create a tension field. The Minister states that she has put a hook in the law, to go further with this. I still wonder if this is the best way to fill it out in the future. We also read about the energy poverty support programme, which is being examined, inter alia, by the government and TNO, which additional measures could be effective for the right target group. Perhaps that will provide input for the follow-up. One more point concerning the target groups. We have talked a lot about the students, but there are, of course, broad target groups that are also getting in trouble and that can apply for special assistance individually. My main concern is the monitoring: how do we keep track that municipalities can get away with the special assistance budget? I heard Mr Stoffer and Mrs Maatoug table an interesting motion on this matter. Mrs Podt also called attention to it, including the students. I would like to join in that. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u354	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the second term of office. The Minister has indicated that he needs about five minutes to prepare himself.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u355	The next item is the second term on the Minister's side. I'll give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u356	Mr. Chairman. I have 11 motions and one amendment. I'll deal with the motions first. The motion in part No. 4 asks for students also to be entitled to an energy surcharge. I think we exchanged the arguments quite a bit tonight. I advise against this motion. The motion in part No. 5 requests that students also be included in the compensation for the high energy bill. That is almost the same motion as the motion in part No. 4. So also the motion in part No. 5 I advise. The motion in part No. 6 calls for an exhaustive overview of the requirements of municipalities for the energy surcharge. I'm going to try to meet Mr Van Baarle. I'm gonna do the best I can for that. If this is not the case here or there, then I hope that Mr Van Baarle will not say immediately that his motion has not been carried out. But I will try to be as complete as possible. If I may use this interpretation to judge the motion, then I can give her judgment Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u357	I see Mr Van Baarle nodding, so he agrees with your interpretation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u358	In the motion in part No. 7 The government is asked to compensate the municipalities that pay the energy surcharge to people with an income above 120% social minimum. I advise against this motion. The motion in part No. 8 calls for monitoring and regular reporting by the Court of Justice of the problems of poverty and debt arising from energy prices. There will now also be a monitoring of TNO and CBS. The ministries of EZK, BZK and SZW also participate in this. So there's already a trajectory at this point. I see this motion as an extension of that. With that, I can give her judgment room.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u359	The motion in part No. 8 gets judgment, Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u360	The motion in part No. 9 is actually a bit broader about purchasing power issues and is not so much specifically focused on this legislative proposal. I would advise Mr Eerdmans to hold this motion and then bring it into the debate on the Spring paper next week, because it actually looks more broadly at purchasing power. That is where the debate on middle incomes can take place. Actually, we didn't do that today.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u361	I'll take a look at Mr. Eerdmans. Is he willing to hold the motion? Mr Eerdmans is prepared to do so. So the motion in part No. 9 is under arrest.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u362	At the request of Mr Eerdmans, I propose his motion (36064, No. 9), as last amended by Regulation (EC) No 40/94 of the European Parliament and of the Council. That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u363	Then the motion to part No. 10. We have, of course, already exchanged views on this issue. I can almost all follow the requests, except for the last request, namely that individual special assistance should require students to borrow maximum from DUO. As I have already mentioned, this is precisely a provision, in many cases also in the case of special assistance and also in this case. That is not something new; that is just standing practice. So if Mrs Podt is prepared to withdraw the last request, I can give the motion judgment Chamber. If she doesn't want to, I'm gonna have to discourage the motion on this basis.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u364	I'm gonna take a look at Mrs. Podt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u365	No, it's not new. I think we had just found that out with each other. What I find complicated is that this situation is new. So what I am asking the Minister in particular: let's see now with the municipalities if it's possible to just apply some coulance here. Otherwise, I do not think that in practice any student is eligible for this. And I don't think that was what we wanted to do with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u366	It is formulated very sharply here. This will therefore have consequences for the budgets of the special assistance of the municipalities. I just really can't do that this way. If Mrs Podt asks to talk to the municipalities to see what they are up against and just look at it in the broadest sense, I have already promised to do so and to keep the finger on the wrist around the budgets special assistance, I understand that. That's what I'd like to say. But this is really too absolute and has consequences for the budgets of the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u367	I'm gonna take a look at Mrs. Podt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u368	I'm gonna go chew on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u369	If the last sentence is not formulated in this way, then I can give the motion judgment Chamber. If the sentence is not changed, then I must discourage the motion in this form. Then the motion to part No. 11. It is about a long-term strategy, where there is quite a degree of detail when it comes to what it should all be about. It also goes beyond isolation, but also rent discounts, healthy food, and global food scarcity. A very wide palette is requested here. We have already promised that the government will look at purchasing power in August in any case for the coming period. In addition, we have the broad programme of poverty and debt, which is also coming to the Chamber. There are also researches on how to deal with energy poverty, for example. I also mentioned the investigation in relation to Mr Stoffer's motion. Do we have to start another route now? I think we should just look at how to grab a few things. I have already said that the Social Minimum Committee will soon see the light of day. I think it is appropriate to use the input of that committee to conduct that broader debate and not to anticipate it already. So I advise against this motion. Then the motion to part No. 12, asking for the money not to be fully transferred. The money has already been transferred to the municipalities at the meicircular. So they already have it. This really crosses the system of the Municipal Fund. The money we give to the Municipal Fund is for the municipality. The college has to answer to the board. I advise against this motion. Then the motion to part No. 13. This evening we discussed the question of whether we should all set up separate arrangements again and the desirability of doing so. I fully understand the mixed feelings about the regulation and the procedures, as we have done with this arrangement. I've been trying to explain why that happened. In fact, this motion calls for a new regulation through the municipalities or DUO. That must then be set up and then you will again have a lot of questions about accountability and enforcement, where we are also somewhat opposed to this bill and in which we try to keep it as limited as possible. I wouldn't be there for that reason. That's why I advise against this motion. Then the motion to part No. 13. The second observation states that there is an undesirable hardness in the scheme, namely that you get either €800 or €0.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u370	The motion in part No. You mean 14.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u371	Excuse me, the motion to part No. 14. I explained that we did not include criteria in the law, but that they were included in the scheme. In the scheme, the municipalities have also introduced hardness clauses. If you just get over €1 or €2 you will really look at the nature and circumstance of the person when granting the scheme. So the suggestion that that hardness is in it is wrong. That's why I advise against this motion. Let me now turn to the amendment to item No. 10 members of Van Baarle and Kuzu on the outgoing full-time students, leaving room for part-time students and/or students staying in student rooms as an independent residence, in order to apply the same limit for the social minimum. As I have said, I will talk to the congregations about the group of students and how they deal with them. Again, the bill does not exclude this group. It's really in the scheme. Municipalities can implement the scheme differently and in their own way. The bill therefore does not need to be amended. The proposed definition will lead to additional controls, because you will have to identify who all fall within that target group as such. That is why we have also said to local authorities that they can take up this space to make their own arrangements. Then they can also align with the minimum policy of their own municipality in order to keep the bill enforceable. For these reasons, I do not recommend this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u372	Thank you. That concludes this debate. I thank the Minister for her reply. Mrs. Palland?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u373	Perhaps I will ask the Minister, because we started this morning at 10 a.m. in the Thorbeckesaal and we end 13 hours later here in the plenary.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u374	You have another urgent question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u375	Well, I have one more question. 'Cause I asked for the settlement earlier. It's a good thing we're doing it, but the scheme also has its limitations. In the second period, I have come back to the fact that TNO's investigation, which the Minister himself mentioned, comes up with additional measures that are effective. Can that also mean something for how we deal with this in the future? Or does the Minister say: no, that is completely separate from such a category...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u376	It's a fair question. You didn't tell me.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u377	Yeah, excuse me. I called it a hook. That is not yet the case; it must still be included in the law if your Chamber agrees. I agree with Mrs Palland that we really need to look more broadly at what is needed to give people more security of existence. The TNO research can provide a number of leads on which we say: you should actually look further at this. I try to do it in a more calm way as much as possible, so that we do not come up with all kinds of measures every time, but I cannot promise that this will not happen at all. It may also be possible that the RIP research provides further leads.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u378	Yes. I'm sorry that this question had not been answered. That concludes this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u379	I thank the Minister for Poverty Policy, Participation and Pensions for her response. I thank the spokesmen. I thank the people in the public gallery who have been with us all night. I'm glad you were among us today. And I thank, of course, those who have followed this debate in a different way. We are going to vote next Tuesday on the amendment and the motions tabled. That's where we came to an end.
