ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-5.u1	The next item is the third term of the debate on the rule of law, fundamental rights and democracy in the European Union. Mr Van Rooijen has requested a short third deadline for tabling a further amended motion. Can the House accept that request? That's the case. Then I would like to welcome the Minister of the Interior and Kingdom Relations to the First Chamber. I give the floor to Mr Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-5.u2	Mr. Chairman. Legislation is the core task of this Chamber, hence this amended motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-5.u3	The amended motion-Van Rooijen c.s. (, letter, was letter U) has been further amended to read as follows: The Chamber, heard the debate, Whereas it is no longer an incident that the court interprets legislation differently from the original intention of the legislator; Whereas clear legislation and interpretation of legislation is an essential element of the rule of law; Considers that this problem lies at the heart of the matter: insufficient attention to adequate systematic, coherent and formulation throughout the legislative process, insufficient attention to the advice of the Council of State and too much space between the text of the law and the interpretation of the legislator; considers that rapid action is necessary for the sake of good and reliable governance; calls on the Government to address this issue without delay on the basis of a thorough inventory and to inform the Chamber of its commitment, progress and conclusion, and goes to the order of the day. This further amended motion was signed by members Van Rooijen, Baay-Timmerman and Otten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported. She gets letter W, was letter V ().
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-5.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you to Mr Van Rooijen for his amended motion. First of all, I agree with Mr Van Rooijen that good laws and rules that work in practice are indispensable in a rule of law. The cabinet is also committed to this on a structural basis. I am working hard here for various actions that we are currently taking. Then it's actually about the screening of laws and rules. That scrutiny is already taking place in connection with the implementation of a Ploumen/Jetten motion. Each department is currently examining its own laws and regulations in order to assess the need for adaptation. On 21 December, my predecessor sent a letter to the Chamber on the progress of this inventory. There has also been a consultation in recent weeks for all those who wanted to, in order to indicate where they see oppressive laws and rules themselves and where there are harshnesses in rules. So, as I indicated in the debate on 8 February, there are different routes. This includes these trajectories, but also the pathways surrounding the adaptation of the General Law on Administrative Law with regard to a more detailed interpretation of proportionality. We are also working on a vision of the hardness clause, and on other ways to make the human dimension better reflected in laws and rules. In short, we are already fully active. We are also in close contact with the case law and the Council of State. In any case, I would like to inform the Chambers by the summer of 2022 at the latest about monitoring the hardness of legislation, the main thrust of the AWB proposal, and the policy vision mentioned. Mr. Chairman. When I look at the text of this motion, my conclusion is that this motion supports the policy and also implements what I am already doing. In doing so, I can leave this motion to the House. I would like to make one point. This concerns the first recital of the motion. I believe, however, that Mr Van Rooijen quite explicitly states that it is no longer an incident that the court interprets legislation differently from the original intention of the legislator. In practice, I also see that the judge still looks at the intention of the legislator in the interpretation and that he still attaches importance to parliamentary history. However, the judge does experience that he sometimes wants to deliver customization in practice, for which the legislation leaves no room for manoeuvre. I do not have the idea that we differ on the interpretation, but I think that Mr Van Rooijen's first recital in his motion is a little too harsh. I can see that the judge is still using the legislator's intention, but sometimes he sees that the legislation does not provide enough room for human standards. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-5.u5	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-5.u6	I propose that we vote on the further amended motion after the next item on the agenda.
