ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u1	The next item is the follow-up to the debate on text messages on the Prime Minister's phone. I'd like to make the following appointment with the members. In view of the fact that there have been quite a few interruptions, I would like to see how we are going to continue the day with each other. Since the hard deadline is 4 p.m., I suggest that my hammer really falls at 4 p.m., that we close the first term from the Chamber and the Cabinet and that we continue the debate at 9 p.m. tonight with the second deadline, so that we can finish the debate today. That would be my proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u2	Mr. Chairman. I don't think that's a good idea. Well, I guess we'll just have to narrow it down and do it right away. For example, I do not rule out a motion of censure. The use is that it should be voted on the same day. So to vote first and then again... It can all be if there's no other way, but my proposal would be to just go on until 16.00 and try to finish it before then, so we don't have to go on at 9 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u3	Okay, fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u4	I would prefer to see how far we get until 4 p.m., but I think that the government's first term is fine and that we can continue the debate next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u5	4:00 p.m. would also be my preference. From 10.15 a.m. to 4 p.m., it should be fine to get such a debate going.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u6	Let me see if the other Members want to respond to this and what is preferable.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u7	Let's declare our intention to be ready by 4:00 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u8	I agree. And if a motion of censure is announced now, I do not think we can continue the debate until next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u9	Yeah, I'm also in for a lock at 4:00.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u10	I support that, too. By 4:00 p.m., it would be a good goal.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u11	I think everyone supports that. Then, of course, we all want the space to interfere. So it is a fine aim, but I did not on purpose interfere too much with colleagues and I just want to be able to ask a number of questions. But if it works out before 4:00 p.m., I'd love to.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u12	Then there's a majority in favour of just finishing it by 4:00 p.m. That seems very good to me, because there are also more important issues on the agenda today. Then I give the floor to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u13	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. If it's okay, the piece of the land attorney Mr Omtzigt asked for is now being sent. I think the names of the lawyers were taken out, but it should be. With regard to that text message of 1 June, as far as we know, the municipality of Amsterdam has made it public in the context of a Wob decision. The interpretation of General Affairs was, when asked for an opinion, that there may be doubts as to whether there is an administrative matter here in the sense of keeping chat messages, but that the government, General Affairs, has no objection to releasing that text message. I think that was made public at the time. That's why the whole text change is in the public domain. I myself sent a copy to an official and to the Minister of Justice. That's what the text says; that's what you'll see when it gets visible again. I can't figure out why he didn't come up to us in the Wob request. What could, of course, be said to us at the time, is that the text was filed there in another way because we did not see it as an administrative matter in the sense of keeping chat messages. That's not exactly retrievable. But the fact is that I think that the whole Wob request is now public.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u14	Thank you. Mr Wilders, PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u15	Mr. Chairman. I don't have that text. You've got him. I think that, by appealing to Article 68 of the Constitution, it is even higher than the Wob, I am asking for it to be received now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u16	I then forwarded it to a civil servant with us. In the meantime we have him again, because we have been asked for an opinion from the municipality of Amsterdam, which was working on this. During this period, we shall have a look at the officials listening to us, whether the original Wob request that was made public at the time is, in my view, so that it can be sent to the Chamber. Then the text will be visible again. Otherwise, I will ask whether what Amsterdam had asked us then in that view, that text message, can be sent. That's no objection.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u17	I don't understand much of this answer. I'm just asking if we can get that text from you as a room now. Why can't I?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u18	I'm telling you that because it's not in the archives with us. It was forwarded by me to an official. The text isn't in the archive. This is explained by the fact that we, as General Affairs, when Amsterdam asked us for an opinion on that Wob request, said that we do not regard this as an administrative matter, but that we do not object to disclosure. So we don't have it in the archives. We do have the text by now, because we have been asked for an opinion. We have that text again and can make it public, but then we make something public that is actually from Amsterdam. So I'd like to check first if the Wob request about that text change went out. I thought so, but they're checking it out right now. If that's the case, it's the easiest thing to do. If that is not the case, we must ask Amsterdam whether they have any objection to us making public a text which they have submitted to us in an opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u19	Finally, because I do not want to go on about this for too long. This shows immediately that according to your archive, this was apparently not an administrative text message, which of course is. I think it's about what text messages are for you. It's not just about what you're sending, it's about what you're receiving. I would ask you again to receive this immediately and also the Prime Minister's possible response by text message. I just asked that at my point of order, before we went to suspend for lunch, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u20	Sure. Once again, therefore, we have received them again in the context of that request for an opinion. Why is it possibly not registered with us? Well, because, in our opinion, this is not a matter of administrative decision-making within the framework of the directive on the retention of chat messages, and that is the kind of text message you need to keep. That could be the reason. We can't figure that out. We don't know."
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u21	But the actions have been deployed...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u22	But Amsterdam has it. What we are doing now is asking Amsterdam if it has any objection if we make the text received from Amsterdam public in the view. If Amsterdam itself has made the Wob request public, it is of course even easier. That's the two ways.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u23	Mr. Wilders, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u24	I really don't have any words for this. I'm trying to understand what the Prime Minister is saying. Again, it was June 1, 2020. There were big riots in Amsterdam. We've already gotten the contacts between the former Justice Minister and the mayor. They didn't lie about it. We have had another debate on this. Now, the same mayor, I'd almost say, doesn't it get much more administratively, the Minister of Justice, and she texted you. Again, it doesn't get much more administrative. Now you say to the Chamber: we don't have one, because we didn't file it because we didn't think it was administrative. How much crazier does it have to be? This is exactly what we're talking about today. If there is anything administrative, it is that the mayor, who is responsible for public order, will text you during a crisis in the capital with a demonstration. How can you say that's not administrative, that you've decided? You're just wrong. This is the example we've been talking about all day.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u25	No, it's not that at all. I'm explaining that text was sent to an official and to the Minister of Justice. That's what you can see in the text from me, the reaction to Halsema's text. I think it went out in a Wob request from Amsterdam after that. That's what we're looking into right now. I will inform you as soon as possible, either about the text like Amsterdam that asked us to bring out, or about the entire Wob request from Amsterdam. I think that's when all those texts came out.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u26	But I think Mr Wilders has a point here. If the Prime Minister of the Netherlands is texting the mayor of Amsterdam about a demonstration, it is an administrative matter. If that is not an administrative matter, I do not remember the definition of an administrative matter. I understand that there are grey areas, but trying to coordinate in times of riot is an administrative matter. She really didn't call you because she liked you. There was a text because the Prime Minister is the Prime Minister of the Netherlands. It now seems that those texts are not kept at the Ministry of General Affairs, so that when someone asks the Ministry of General Affairs "can you send me those texts so that I know what decision has been taken"... for it was not "hello." No, a decision was made whether or not to allow demonstrations to continue. This is an excellent administrative matter. It's about fundamental rights. We need to be able to control the government for that. Do I now understand that such texts are not kept in the Ministry of General Affairs, because it is not considered to be an administrative matter?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u27	No, I didn't say that. I said we don't know why the text wasn't found. That's what I said. I said that we said in the direction of Amsterdam that this is not administrative decision-making as provided for in the government's hand-out on the preservation of chat messages. This was a request from the mayor of Amsterdam for contact with me. I said I don't do that contact, because you're also in contact with Ferd Grapperhaus. That's what the text change was about, nothing more and nothing less. You'll see that when they come out. And again, I think they've already come out.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u28	We're about to look at the texts and then... I'm just gonna ask the Prime Minister what his definition of an administrative matter is. For those who watch: that seems very technical, but everything from an administrative point of view must be preserved. I also just read out the decision on what to keep. Anything about "hi Femke, it's nice weather today" or "happy birthday" can go. We're all fine with that. There's also a grey category, but we don't have to talk about that. But demonstrations are an administrative matter, even when a driver says: I don't want anything to do with this demonstration. Then too, it is an administrative matter. That's the interesting thing about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u29	So that's the text change.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u30	Yes. If the mayor of Amsterdam says "I would like to contact the Prime Minister of the Netherlands for a demonstration," even the Prime Minister's decision not to want to talk about this is, by definition, an administrative matter. If we talk our way out of that, we'll never be able to...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u31	I'm really gonna respond to that, because I really think that's bullshit. She asks me, can we be in touch? I say, "I'm not, because you're already in contact with Ferd Grapperhaus. There's already contact with the cabinet. It is not convenient to have contact along two lines." That's what it's about. I do not believe that there is a case such as that provided for in the retention of chat messages, namely administrative decision-making. This is really something else.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u32	Finally, Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u33	But it's not the reason that text wasn't saved. We don't know. I am merely explaining why we have explained this in such a way in the view.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u34	The Prime Minister explained in the previous debate that he has two responsibilities, namely the National Information Service and the WRR, and that someone else in the cabinet is responsible for all other matters. According to these decisions, he only has to keep texts when they are about the reports of the WRR and can be said about all other matters: I am not about that, because that is what another minister is about. If this is his definition of an administrative matter, then I am going to ask the parliamentary lawyer for an opinion on the definition of an administrative matter by means of a motion. That sounds very administrative, but it seems necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u35	That is not my definition of an administrative matter; I have just explained that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u36	It could take a little longer, maybe. We will get to the heart of the matter in the first ten minutes: the Prime Minister who decides for himself what is an administrative matter and what is not, and who cannot tell why this text exchange has not been preserved at his ministry. That's exactly the point, because this message should have been kept. Then it is not only up to this Prime Minister, but also to his legislative lawyers to determine whether this is relevant or not. Maybe it's not relevant this week or next week, but it will be in two or three years. That is why my question remains, and I think he is too easy to get rid of it, why this is not stored in your ministry. To whom did you send this to your ministry?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u37	This text was sent by me to the Ministry, according to the arrangement as I outlined in the letter. I'm just sketching that we can't find him in the archives. We don't know why. That's one. Two is that Amsterdam asked us for an opinion on a Wob request from Amsterdam specifically about this text change, and by the way about the whole text change of that afternoon and evening. At that time, the lawyers of AZ said: strictly speaking, it does not have to go outside, and this is not an administrative matter between AZ and Amsterdam at that time, there was contact with the Minister of Justice, but we have no objection if you do make it public. So that's what happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u38	In the manual on chat messages it says that if there is contact between the ruler and third parties, which in this case is the mayor of Amsterdam, it is the responsibility of the ruler to archive these messages. This can be done in different ways, for example by creating screenshots or by uploading them to a system. Forwarding isn't even an option. Then those messages need to be archived. Apparently, this didn't happen at the Ministry of General Affairs. The general question that lies behind this is: how often has something been archived from the Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u39	You can see that in the Wob requests. There is a lot in that that we naturally archive, only this specific text change is not to be found. It's been forwarded.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u40	Mr Klaver, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u41	It is interesting, because every time we ask for something, whether it's about receipts from a Bitch Deal, Hawija or the dividend tax, he says: no, everything else we keep and everything else I know, but on this particular point, which is very specific what you're asking for now, and that's just so coincidentally I can't really find anything. Isn't that, to say the least, unbelievable? We were in the biggest crisis ever and there were disturbances in Amsterdam, and this message is no longer to be found in the administration of your department. I find: we don't remember... What did you do to find out why this message is not available in your department?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u42	Again, it's been forwarded. We don't know why it's not archived and why it can't be found anymore. There's no way to find out right now. In addition, that view plays on that Wob request from Amsterdam. I just gave our response to how it went. And that's what I stand for; that really went right. By the way, that view has also become public in a Wob request for the view on the previous Wob request, so that has come out in the open.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u43	Wait, this is also Rutterian, to refer to Amsterdam and views. I am not concerned with the matter itself; we will discuss it another time. You say the text was forwarded, but not filed. How do we know you forwarded it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u44	This is, I think, another point in the debate, because it has also been asked: can you call KPN again and ask for all phone numbers? I'm not going to. I have acted in every way according to the law and the spirit of the law. I will answer all the questions you have to ask me. But I'm not going to ask KPN, for example, to show or say all those phone numbers and all those people who have ever had a text message: these are the following 30 examples that you then send to the department. That's how it happened. If there's no such trust, I'll hear it from the Chamber. Then I'm gonna do other things. But I say quite clearly here: I abide by the law and I abide by the spirit of the law. I'm sending all the relevant texts. It has to be, anyway, because I work on these things with my colleagues in General Affairs. By the way, a lot of text messages are about, for example, 'I am half an hour later' or 'yeah, good luck with the debate'. That could be colleagues from the Chamber or friends or anyone else. But as far as administrative matters are concerned, that is always shared with officials. There's no other way, because we're working on those files together. And, of course, they are also paying attention to the fact that it is registered. In this case, you can't find a text message. That can happen more often. I can't exactly figure that out. If he sees a pattern in that, it's Mr. Klaver's choice. If he also connects that pattern with Hawija and all the other casuistics he calls, then I can explain them all when we walk one by. That he sees a trend and a pattern in it, I disagree with it from A to Z, but I am fine with Mr Klaver rubbing that on me, because that is what twelve years of doing this job is all about. I can handle that. But I have acted from A to Z in the spirit of the law and in accordance with the law. We're gonna talk about what you can improve on that law and how you deal with it. I get all that. There are also improvements to be made, including in my behavior, but from the fact that this text message is not available, you can't get a trend. I am not going to answer to the Chamber here either by immediately giving access to all the text messages within General Affairs or with me or in what KPN can bring up. I'm just not gonna do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u45	Thank you very much. We're going to see Mr. Azarkan now. No, Mr. Klaver, you've already had four questions. We're gonna see what's in there right now. Mrs. Marijnissen and Mr. Wilders also want to interrupt. So we're going to see Mr. Azarkan now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u46	Mr President, on a point of order. I don't have to ask any new questions. I have asked one short question and then I get a full lecture on how honest this Prime Minister is and that he does everything in his honour and conscience. I want answers to my questions. I will repeat my question very briefly, without any introduction. If the text is not registered to the Ministry of General Affairs, how can you be so sure that you have forwarded it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u47	It says in the text: cc Ferd and the official's name. Of course, I will not put that in there if I do not send it through, but we cannot find out why it is not available now. It's in that text, and you'll see it when it comes up.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u48	This is a pattern...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u49	That is not proof, says Mr Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u50	Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u51	This is exactly the essence of this debate. If the Chamber so wishes, we really have a problem this afternoon, because I'm not going all...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u52	Mr President, I had the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u53	Mr. Azarkan, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u54	Let me make a point of order. When Mr Wilders makes a comment and the Minister takes the floor, while I have the floor, I hear behind me from the coalition'sst'. But that's just not the issue. You have given me the floor and I would like to point out a pattern.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u55	I would like to ask colleagues if they would like to say anything, to do so through the interrupting microphone. Otherwise we won't get any order in this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u56	Mr Klaver rightly said a whole...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u57	Just give me a second, because I'm being accused...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u58	Mr. Ellian, you don't have the floor for me. I give the floor to Mr Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u59	Let me get this straight. The "sst" came not from the coalition, but from Mr Eerdmans.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u60	Let's have a serious debate with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u61	If the Prime Minister is questioned in a way that we can fulfil our role, he will stop. If you do not trust me, if you do not believe that I always do the right things, then you will look at what decision you make as a Chamber. That's no way to do it, is it? Even the coalition parties have asked a number of questions that we can discuss with each other. The question asked by Mr Klaver was very simple: what is it that shows that the text has been sent? There was no answer to that. Then how can we trust the Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u62	I just gave that answer. It says: cc Ferd and the first name of the official it went to.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u63	The Prime Minister himself indicated: we act within the framework of the rules as there are in the Archive Act et cetera. We're exactly the "we"? I got the impression that the minister independently decides what he removes and what he doesn't. Who, other than the Prime Minister, has watched in recent years according to the four-eyed principle, as an additional check, as someone who knows the guarantees of the democratic rule of law, the Archive Act, the Public Administration Act, the transparent government? Who else but the Prime Minister will test whether that information can be removed or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u64	That is a fair question, which I answered in the letter. You don't have to do that according to the hand-out. The debate today also looks, among other things, at the future. Do we have to change things in that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u65	Finally, Mr Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u66	I understand that the Prime Minister would like to go to the future, but he is responsible here for the past.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u67	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u68	Because there are things that have taken place, which the Chamber rightly has questions about. The Prime Minister speaks of "we" all the time, suggesting that there is a group of people who have determined what information is relevant to the control function of the Chamber. But that group isn't there at all. The Prime Minister has decided on his own that he has acted within the framework of the law. If we ask for it, it is not clear how it has been tested. Let the Prime Minister be clear. He says he did it all by himself. He's the one who made it. We have just seen how this leads to the wrong definition of 'administrative matters'.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u69	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u70	If the Prime Minister does or does not do something, and if he does or does not accept something, that context may be important to us. Has the Prime Minister carefully considered the position of the Chamber to determine whether anything is relevant information or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u71	Some answers. First of all, according to the handout of chat messages, the person responsible for data must perform that key itself. I'm gonna take a look at the future. The Chamber says that I would like to look to the future, but I do so because questions about this way of working may well have been raised in the debate. But right now, this is how it works. That is in line with the law and in the spirit of the law. Whoever's responsible for a text message has to decide for himself. In my view, it works that all texts that are substantive should always be shared with the officials, because, of course, I am not working on a subject without officials. It's always a message from society, from an NGO or a company or someone else who wants something on a particular subject. I'm gonna go through with that and ask, how are we gonna deal with it? Whether it is negotiated work, decision-making by the Council of Ministers towards the Friday Council of Ministers or that sort of thing. You can see all that in the Wob requests. That's where you see those text messages coming back. Of course, there is also a lot of phone calls. General Affairs is not about all these issues as final responsibility, but is often involved in that decision-making. So you can also see it in Wob requests in other places. That's how it works. Then you may wonder if it is wise for a person to do so himself. That question has been asked here, and I think that is a real debate. But again, that's to the future. Mr Azarkan is right: we look first at the past. That's the way it should be.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u72	What makes it so unbelievable is that the Prime Minister is trying to make it very small again and trying to get rid of the Chamber: we are looking for nails on low water and it is just one text message. But the point is that this text is exemplary for something much bigger. It is a question of whether we are able to control power. This example is now on the table; it is not that I want to make this one text bigger, but purely as an example. Does the Prime Minister acknowledge that, if there is a clear balance between the fact that it is not administrative contact and therefore cannot be controlled, he is thus adversely affecting the democratic control of the House of Representatives?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u73	If it were, but it wasn't. The text was sent both to the minister and to an official. The only question is, why isn't it possible to figure it out now? I outline to you that one possible explanation is that General Affairs has given the view as we have given it. The text says: you have to be with Ferd; the image that stands out in Amsterdam is not nice, but Ferd is working on this and Ferd and I are in touch. I think all those texts came out, but they're double-checking it again. In any case, that view has come out earlier.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u74	The painful thing here is, of course, that we know that because the municipality of Amsterdam knows that and because the municipality of Amsterdam can show that. The point is that we stand here because the Chamber must be able to control power. That is made impossible because, for some reason, which apparently still has to be searched or thought out, that text is not available.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u75	That could be for more texts, that they can't be found. It's always possible. I'll outline to you what I'm doing. I'm going through all the messages that are content, not just because they need to be saved, but because they're working on it anyway. Again, small messages about "success" or "I'm half an hour later" of course not. Officials shall ensure, in accordance with the rules, that such messages remain in their own boxes at least. All ministries are struggling, and I will come back to that later in order to get the archiving in order. We can also improve things there. But it's all retrievable when all those inboxes are checked on Wob requests. You can see that. In the various Wob requests, very often about corona, you see a lot of text messages.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u76	Mrs Marijnissen, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u77	Yes, but the fact remains that we now know this in this case with this specific text because the municipality of Amsterdam still has it. Because you, Prime Minister, seem to be inexplicable for inexplicable reasons.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u78	Yeah, that's true.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u79	Let that be exactly the pattern: every time it comes to this kind of thing, they get into openness and transparency, for inexplicable reasons or for an even more detailed reason, a receipt is lost, the memories are lost or the texts are texted. You should see that! That's why there's been such a fierce reaction. That's a pattern.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u80	You keep stacking up those previous examples and explaining that to a pattern. You don't give me a chance to walk through them individually. Then I could explain on a case-by-case basis how it is and that the pattern is unjustified. We don't have time for that today. I accept that, if you do this job for a long time, there may be a reason for others to add up previous events, put a label there and suggest a pattern. I accept that. We can definitely discuss how that has really been. For example, we have all done these debates, up to and including 'function elsewhere'. That "function elsewhere" wasn't mine. That was also mentioned in the debate. The mistake in that debate was that I didn't know that Omtzigt's name had been mentioned in the conversation with the two reformers. But "function elsewhere" didn't come from me. We've all discussed that. It has all been discussed in detail. But I see "function elsewhere by Rutte" everywhere in newspapers and debates. That's not true. This was discussed at length in the debate between the two informers and Wopke Hoekstra, then group chairman of the CDA. That is one small example of how an event is always packaged as "you see." All that "see you well" leads to a pattern. And now the text from June 1st is gone from General Affairs. That fits that pattern. I accept that, but I will outline to you what happened here. That text was sent to two people. Again, we are now trying to check with Amsterdam if that is where the Wob request went out. Otherwise, we're gonna ask Amsterdam if they're okay with me bringing out that text.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u81	That's what you said. I am looking at Mr Wilders or Mr Jansen. I think Mr Wilders was a little earlier.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u82	The Prime Minister starts his term, and after one minute he's in trouble for another half an hour. He's not coming out either. He's insecure. He looks unhappy. He also has a great deal of reason to do so, because we have the following answer to a Member's first request for a relevant text to be sent to us. One, "I can't prove I forwarded it." Two, "he lost it in my department." Three, about the largest administrative moment in 2020 throughout the Netherlands, namely the riots in Amsterdam and the conflicts between the mayor of Amsterdam, the minister and the Prime Minister, he says: that was not administrative. Prime Minister, three times you're wrong about the first example of a Member of Parliament from the first text we're asking for. You haven't even gotten the rest of your answer yet. My question to the Prime Minister is: what are you saying? You cannot convince the Chamber from any side, at least a large part of the opposition. People don't believe you anymore. You stand here stuttering and stomping with an unbelievable story. What the hell is that? What conclusion do you draw from that yourself?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u83	That Mr Wilders is wrong. It's possible you can't find a text like that. It's gonna be a lot of times. The choice is then for Mr Wilders to say: you see, that fits in a pattern. I'll give you the honest answer here. One, the text's been sent. That's what it says. Two, he's unrecoverable. Three, the view was given as it later emerged at Amsterdam's request. Those are the facts.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u84	The pattern may not be specific in this one text, but in the fact that the Prime Minister is removing his texts at all. This one example is of course very important, because it shows something, but it is very strange to delete all your texts by default. I don't know anyone who does. I don't do that myself. My texts and apps go back years. Why does the Prime Minister do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u85	I explained that in the letter and yesterday in the press moment. That has to do with the following. When a lot of messages are in the outbox, in the shipping box, of such a Nokia, it slows down. In the inbox, a lot of messages are incredibly clumsy in your screen. I'm sending messages myself to officials working on it. Especially since 2019, after the decision of the Council of State, we are of course even more focused on keeping that type of message. I therefore fulfill both the spirit and the letter of the law. I also fully comply with the regulation on the storage of chat messages.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u86	Finally, Mr Jansen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u87	This is gonna be a well-nuke game. I find this really unbelievable. This doesn't make such a Nokia too slow. However, I am not going to spend hours on this either. I think it's just bullshit.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u88	I have a question that I have also asked Mr Ellian. The Prime Minister just said he acted according to the spirit and letter of the law. He may have that feeling, but he's not an administrative or archival scholar either. Two professors have now spoken out publicly. Mr Charles Jeurgens and Mr Wim Voermans said that the Prime Minister did not act according to the letter and spirit of the law. Then I ask how the Prime Minister weighs these expressions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u89	I disagree. The decision of the Council of State was made in 2019. Next, the government also had to answer the question of how we deal with text messages and chat messages. That hand-out is now known to everyone. I've always acted in accordance with that hand-out.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u90	That's an opinion. Of course, I can only accept it. We'll weigh that down here in the Chamber. But I still have a practical consideration. I assume the PM gets about 1,000 texts a day. I'm already getting it, so I'm assuming the Prime Minister gets more. But if you have to erase 400 of them and you do that in five seconds, you've been at it for half an hour. If you have a few more things to forward, it'll take another half an hour. And then you have 100 or 200 very long messages that you all have to paraphrase and ring. Then you spend an hour and a half a day accounting your texts. So I can't imagine the Prime Minister of the Netherlands getting rid of his texts one and a half hours a night.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u91	No. I'm not. Well, luckily, there aren't that many. And it's very rare that a text is so long that you have to paraphrase. That's very rare. But if that happens, then so be it. Not anymore, but until last week.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u92	Mr Van Haga, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u93	We're not getting anywhere with this. Okay, but how many hours a week is the Prime Minister doing these shadow accounting? We have a problem, and the Prime Minister must acknowledge it. I can't imagine you doing that every night, even if it's only ten minutes. That's a waste of time, isn't it? Wouldn't it have been better to find a solution 12 years ago? How much time does the Prime Minister spend on these books every day?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u94	Well, it's not accounting. Here's what you're gonna do. When a message comes in saying "I'm half an hour later," I answer "okay" and then I throw it away. If a message comes in that is content, I'll send it to an official, because then we're working on it, and then I'll throw it away, because then it's with that official. It will then come up with suggestions on how we proceed with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u95	How much time does that take, was the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u96	So that doesn't take time, because that happened immediately when you read the text and decide on the action: "okay" write back, or send the text to the official and ask how we will proceed with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u97	Mr. Omtzigt was a little earlier. Then Mrs. Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u98	What happens in case the Prime Minister has app contact and he sends this to someone in cc? Let me start with an cc to the then Minister of Security and Justice. Is a text message from the Prime Minister to the Minister of Security and Justice an administrative matter and should that text be kept, or should that not be kept?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u99	Of course, that's up to the Justice Department's assessment. The text was, "Ferd's already in touch with you. I don't like the image of the Museumplein, but I'll keep in touch with Ferd." Then it's up to Ferd whether he keeps it or not. I think that's really up to the Justice Department at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u100	I think that is a curious answer, so I will come back to that later. I also believe that the person who sends the message should, in this case, keep that message to the Prime Minister if it is covered by the Wob and by the Archive Act. Suppose the Prime Minister deletes that message and then a journalist comes to see how that went, right there on the Museum Square. The Prime Minister trusts all other people to save his messages, but he doesn't. If I then submit a Wob request as a journalist and I say that I would like to have the message traffic of the Prime Minister with Mrs Halsema, with the deputy mayor, with the triangle or with anyone in Amsterdam, will such a message come up in the case of a Wob request to the Ministry of General Affairs? After all, that message is no longer in the Prime Minister's telephone or archive, but in the archives of the officials or officials. the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u101	Yes. So here is the problem that we have no explanation for the fact that that text message could no longer be found. That was the discussion I just had with Mr Wilders. But if it had been found, it would have come up and then that part of the point of view you have to give on that Wob request.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u102	Finally, Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u103	Let me get this straight. I am not asking whether there has been any contact with the entire Ministry of General Affairs. But what if a journalist specifically asks: has the Prime Minister had contact with Amsterdam, or anyone from the Amsterdam College, or anyone from the triangle in Amsterdam? That seems to me to be a relevant question for a journalist to ask. Is the lawyer of the Ministry of General Affairs only going to look in the archives stored by the Prime Minister, or is the lawyer going to look in the archives of the officials of General Affairs to whom these cc's have been written? Otherwise, this is a genius way of saying "real genius," I have to admit, to make sure that those texts remain out of the picture with the most logical Wob question that can be asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u104	So you're talking about Wob questions, not a journalist's question. Because in the latter case, the answer could also be "yes, it's like this" or "we don't give access to that contact." But if it's a Wob request, then of course it's wider, because with me those things aren't.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u105	Then very precisely: at that moment, the legal officer of AZ who deals with the Wob has the instruction not only to look in the archives of the Prime Minister, but also in all other archives...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u106	Just in those other archives, because they're not in the Prime Minister's archives. I'm not keeping that inbox. I'm just sending it to an official. Of course he looks wide.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u107	Okay. And the fact that the inbox is not kept by the Prime Minister, according to the Prime Minister, is in accordance with the Archive Act?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u108	Yes, because the Archive Act and then the hand-out also prescribe that relevant information about administrative decision-making and everything related to it, the SMS traffic, is kept.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u109	Paraphrasing and reading messages just came up. My question to the Prime Minister is: if he sent a message, read it or paraphrased it, did he check afterwards how that message was then saved?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u110	No. Again, I am calling not only for the purpose of storing it, but also for the purpose of ensuring that follow-up actions are taken. But it's very rare. It doesn't happen so often that you get a long text, because then people send an email or otherwise. But if people send a long text, which since a certain date I don't know since when.............................................................................................................................................................................................. I'll say, "I got the following message from Pieterse with this content. How do we proceed with that?" You can see that again, of course, also in Wob requests, because that in turn leads to mails from an official from which actions arise, etc.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u111	I'm gonna go over the hand-out, but I understand that the Prime Minister admits: I have a text; I want to throw it away, but first I'm gonna call the official and tell him what it says by sending it or by literally reading it or paraphrasing it. Well, at least he's off the hook. He does not check whether that message is then actually stored, as the hand-out says, with integrity and authenticity. Well, I'm gonna dig a little more.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u112	The agreements within General Affairs are, of course, especially after the Council of State ruling, which, of course, I have always been sending out messages, just because we are administratively present, it has become even more important that we register it properly because of the Council of State ruling in relation to the Wob. If such a message is too long, I will have to call it in and then I will see it again, of course, because then actions will be taken or suggestions will be made for an answer or it will come back to a meeting. You can see that again in Wob requests, in mail trails or in other things.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u113	I think you can just copy text messages: cut and paste in an email and then forward them. I don't think there's any need for that call at all, but it couldn't have happened with Prime Minister Rutte's phone. We're sitting here talking about those texts. There are a lot of technical questions: a texting sister and a text message like that. The fact is, of course, that we in the Chamber simply cannot control him anymore. That's actually just the essential point. We just don't know that. Nor do we know what the Prime Minister considers private. We can't see that anymore. So this is actually a debate about the loss of confidence, both from the Chamber, at least from a part of the Chamber, and from a part of the population. Does the Prime Minister agree with me that this sort of thing and this kind of thing, I don't even want to call it a bad thing, because then I don't do justice to it, just really bad for the trust of the citizen, both in the cabinet and in the Lower House and in the government in general?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u114	I followed the rules. That's what I said to the media yesterday. To be honest, I think that is very important. The rules are laid down in agreements we have made within the government about how we deal with these kinds of situations. I think it's okay to have a discussion, and I also get it about whether you don't need a four-eye principle or that kind of thing. But the rules were as they were, and they are as they are right now. I haven't had to forward it since a few weeks, because I now have a different kind of phone. The last one turned out not to do it on my vacation in New York. But the fact is, I've kept to the rules. And that's the way it's supposed to be. That is also appropriate, because we need to ensure that the public authorities are transparent.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u115	I've seen it before, but I think we're talking Swahili here, because the Prime Minister hears something quite different from my question. My question is: does the Prime Minister agree with me that this kind of thing, and also the things that have happened in the past, is not at all good for the trust of the citizens, the people who choose us and pay us? I'll repeat it again. It's just not good for that trust.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u116	But that's what we do together, isn't it? It is not surprising that the confidence drops when Mrs Marijnissen and others here add up things in the past every time, as I see a totally unjustified sticker sticking up there, then add up all those stickers and say that there is a pattern and now say because there is a text message from 1 June 2020: see, that fits that pattern! That's what we do with each other, isn't it? What I can do alone is explain that it's bullshit, that I'm not lying, that I'm sticking to the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u117	I note that the Prime Minister simply does not want to answer this question. That's the point here. The Prime Minister could simply say: Mrs van der Plas, I am not saying anything. It could be. No is also an answer. The Prime Minister talks about a pattern and says he can explain it all, but a pattern is a repetition of things that follow each other, whether or not with a long time in between. You might be able to explain that, but it's still a pattern. It's still a pattern. It's just a pattern. The Prime Minister can't deny that. But I would like to continue briefly on that trust, because I think that is an essential question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u118	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u119	Yeah, it's coming now. Last year, during the 1 April debate, the Prime Minister indeed said: I am going to do my stinking best to restore the confidence of the citizen, in me but also in politics. Then, on 1 November, a study will be launched to show that citizens' confidence is historically low. So it just didn't work out, we can see. It just didn't work out to restore that trust. Doesn't the Prime Minister think it's so serious that it didn't work that he should just say: boys, I just can't do it, I just couldn't do it; I'm just going to draw my conclusions on this? Because in all the debates we are talking about, it is purely and simply about trust.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u120	That is a bizarre reasoning! First of all, Hawija, the debate of 1 April and all those other things are made a kind of icon and it is said for years: you see, he lies, he doesn't speak the truth et cetera. Then it is no longer relevant what I also argue, namely how it really is, that I am not lying and how the facts have turned out. Then it is said: this is the sum total of all these things. I'm not being childish about that. I realize that if you do this job for a long time, that's also logical. There may gradually be interests to put such an image on it. But it's not right. It's just not right! I also defend my integrity here. I'm defending the fact that I'm telling the truth and I'm not standing here lying. I never do. Of course, while I look at Mrs Van der Plas, I will try to take away her seats and she will try to take away my seats. That's the political battle we're supposed to have here, but that's what we do with open sight, never lying, always with the truth and transparent. When I say on April 1 that it's my goal to restore confidence, that's not something I can do on my own. I acknowledge to Mrs van der Plas that confidence is still low. But also look at the kind of debates that have been taking place here in recent weeks, at the mistrust towards cabinet members. A very large part of the opposition parties, not all sixteen parties happy, are starting to distrust the cabinet about what we are doing, whatever the subject is. Then we have a joint responsibility in that, don't we? That is not just a responsibility of the Prime Minister and the Government. It's a joint responsibility. That's what I'm gonna keep standing here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u121	Very briefly, Mrs Van der Plas, concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u122	Now my clog breaks. I'm really speechless right now. This is what the Prime Minister did last week in the debate on the removals. The Prime Minister gets into trouble, he can answer here, he can say what he stands for, and then it gets turned to something like: those rotten roommates, who all ask these nasty questions. Yeah, it's us, it's us. We are too suspicious and we are asking far too many questions. No! I just think that's really outrageous. I'm sorry to say that. I just don't think that's possible. This is our job. The Prime Minister can't like that. You can do all that, but this is our job. This is the second time the Prime Minister has done this in one week. I'd like to ask the Prime Minister to take back those words.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u123	No, I'm definitely not taking it back! I'm gonna keep them all going. I'm gonna keep them all going. Mrs van der Plas, what would be the reason why more and more Dutch people are saying that they are no longer watching the debates on television? Because everything starts with distrust, with an absolutely fundamental feeling that the case is bottled, cheated and so on. This happens over and over again in the debates. Sometimes people don't get a chance to explain it in a quiet way. I also notice it in the Council of Ministers when we talk about it. Colleagues say: we like the job, but what are the debates in the House of Representatives complicated and sometimes unpleasant and what is going on? You can ask me anything. I'll answer for everything, but it's about that basic tone. What Mrs Van der Plas is doing here is saying: you see, there is a pattern, an addition. But of course that is so false! Because that's what you're saying: you don't even get the chance to defend and explain all those separate moments anymore, because we see them as part of a pattern and this fits in. In today's debate, I am really going to go against that for once, and I will continue to do so; you can count on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u124	We're going to the colleagues now. Mrs. Kuik, PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u125	I would advise the Prime Minister to look back on this piece of debate. 'Cause whoever points looks at himself, too. That is exactly what you are doing. You will put the question of confidence on the table one minute after the start of this debate. We don't. That's what you do. You're talking about lying. We don't do that. The Prime Minister himself does that. And then get annoyed because we just want to ask questions. And that's what I'm gonna do now, because that's my role. It's my job to control the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u126	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u127	I can't right now. And why not? Because the selection of data retention is made by the Prime Minister himself. So I can't control that. I can't find it, because those texts are gone. So I can't control that. I cannot control what is or is not shared, because it conceals its own mechanism. There are gaps in the accountability that we ask. That's what we saw in the corona crisis, which we see coming back to Afghanistan. So I can't check whether there's something missing or just not being communicated there. I just can't control it. That's my job. Let me bring it back to a specific question. It's not about the text message with the mayor of Amsterdam. That's relevant, but that's not the point. But if I have done so, and my colleagues have asked for Wob documents around Afghanistan, where people died because they weren't evacuated in time, then I don't see any text message from the Prime Minister about that. Then my simple question is: did the Prime Minister not communicate in any way about Afghanistan and the evacuation what was so relevant that it should have been preserved?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u128	Let me return to what Mrs. Kuik said at the beginning: I have to look back. Let her look back on her contribution and also on that of the Group chairman of GroenLinks. Because that's exactly what they did: it's a pattern, it's distrust...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u129	Mr President,......................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u130	I'm just being very clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u131	Mrs. Kuik, the Minister-President has the floor. You're getting a reaction now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u132	Anyone who bounces can expect the ball. I'm just gonna say that back to Mrs. Chicken. Then we're both gonna look back on our parts of the debate. We'll do it together if we have to. I'm fine with it. But this is something I need to get off my chest. I have written a comprehensive letter at the request of Mrs Piri on all these issues. You have read exactly what is happening, that everything that has already been provided in other departments has already come out through those departments and that everything we have has come out. This is business... Look, how does that work in practice? There's one counsel at General Affairs working on such a file. That's what I call when there's a case as big as Afghanistan playing six, seven, maybe ten times a day. Then we'll go over everything that's going on. You don't do that through a text message. That's what you do by just calling. By calling you also continue to talk about what is behind the discussion that we are currently having, what is going on in other departments, and what is going on in the government consultation that we had set up, because that was, of course, the most important issue at the time. This played around August 15th and the following week; this was crucial. And everything we have, you've had.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u133	I therefore repeat my question...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u134	So there's no throwing things away.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u135	So that's exactly what I want to know, because I can't control it, because there's nothing in there. I just want to know if at that time in those crucial weeks there were indeed no text messages that should have been archived, because we don't see any of that in the pieces.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u136	Listen. I say everything is being forwarded, everything we have is being provided. We're not getting rid of anything because we don't want to bring it out. That's just not gonna happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u137	Thank you. Mrs Van der Graaf, Christian Union, and then Mr Dassen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u138	The Prime Minister has already said several times here that he has acted within the rules. The Prime Minister sent a letter yesterday in which he said: "If it were very long messages, I couldn't just forward them. I read it to you. In that I paraphrased, or I passed them down on main lines. In doing so, I also acted in line with Annex 4 of the hand-out." That's exactly what he said. I grabbed it for a while. There is no mention in that annex or in the manual of the transmission of the main messages or their paraphrasing. I ask the Prime Minister why he insists that he has acted within these rules. Wouldn't it be better, in addition, if he acknowledged that there was tension with those rules and that he might have stretched them a little bit?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u139	Well, I don't think it's stretching. But I agree with the tension there is; that's just true. It's not like that message has to be kept exactly. The point is that what is administrative is recorded in e-mails and notes and so on. That almost always happens when you're working on a particular file and there's a long text that can't be sent. That happens very rarely, very rarely. But when it happens, it almost always gets follow-up. But I absolutely agree that there's a tension field.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u140	It is not just about the essence, as the Prime Minister says, but those rules do say that the message really needs to be kept. That's what this is about, of course. So I ask the Prime Minister whether he has not given too much of his own interpretation of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u141	No, I think this is how it's gonna work. But I do agree with her that this is a field of tension. Why do I think this is possible? Because, of course, it ends up landing in further traffic between officials who then give it follow-up. But a vulnerability is definitely present here, absolutely. I'm sure if you... who was it just that came with the two lawyers? If you're going to ask them, they'll probably agree with the questioner.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u142	Finally, Mrs Van der Graaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u143	If the Prime Minister acknowledges all of this, then I ask myself the following. For years, the subject of discussion and discussion has been whether the Prime Minister should still use such a phone. There's a lot of jokes about that. But this is about the possibility of reconstructing decision-making in the future. Hasn't the Prime Minister made it very difficult for himself to be completely open and transparent? Shouldn't he have done it differently? I ask his reflection on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u144	In retrospect I thought: I should have switched to a smartphone earlier. But the question that is fundamental, of course, is whether you have followed the spirit of the law. I absolutely believe that it is. Why did I go through with that crazy little device? Not because I thought, "That makes me popular." I don't think many people choose VVD because I use a Nokia; I think rather the other way around. VVDs like to drive nice cars. They don't vote VVD either because I drive an old Saab, quite the contrary. I did this because I just really like texting and I can get on with it very quickly. I've been messing around on that smartphone for a week now and I think it's hell. I think they're ugly, too, you name it. I'm against those things. But it has to be now. But I agree, at this point certainly, that it would have been more convenient if I had done that before.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u145	The Prime Minister states that he has acted according to the letter and the spirit of the law. Especially the piece of "spirit" amazes me. Because it also states that the Prime Minister has a duty of care to ensure that everything is kept well, orderly and open. The moment you use an old Nokia, where you can only put an x-number of text messages, you don't actually do that anymore. Because because you have to archive daily, that technique actually shows that you're not doing it in the right way. A second point is also that you are constantly determining for yourself what is preserved and what is not. A great deal has already been asked about this. The moment you paraphrase, read texts, forward everything and ask what we need to do with this, you're not doing it in an orderly way anymore. Does the Prime Minister think he's fulfilling that duty of care?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u146	Yes, I do. But I also understand the questions that have been asked about what I sum up as the four-eyed principle. Wouldn't it be better for someone to watch and say: are you sure this one is sufficiently archived? I think that's... Anyway, we'll get to that soon, looking to the future. Then I would like to say a few things about that, but I can absolutely see that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u147	The minister just started the remark: you have to trust me. After that, there was an immediate discussion about what is "an administrative matter." In all the discussions that the Prime Minister is having here with my colleagues, I can actually tell that there is a great deal of resistance. That resistance also feeds that mistrust a bit, because that resistance gives a very strong feeling of 'I do not want to be controlled, I really do not want to have all those things out in the open and I actually think that the Chamber is a difficult one'. That's kind of the feeling I'm getting with the Prime Minister. I asked him a question about that, too. I say this now: does the Prime Minister understand that it is precisely this transparency, this openness, that is so important for parliamentary control and for our democracy?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u148	Yeah, totally. There's no discussion about that. There's no way I'm gonna do anything about it that's trying to get rid of it. That's why I'm just sticking to the rules.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u149	Then last. The Council of Europe also notes that culture in the Netherlands is right to keep everything closed if it does not have to be directly public instead of everything being public, as in many other countries. That conclusion is drawn about how we deal with this openness in the Netherlands. Mr Rutte is becoming the symbol of this in the Netherlands. In 2019, also on the initiative of the Netherlands, the Tromsø Convention was drawn up. The Netherlands has not yet ratified that treaty, which actually reverses that core. I would like to ask the Prime Minister whether it is not time to ratify that treaty.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u150	By the way, Mr Dassen is doing the same thing now. He says, "He has become the symbol of this." I don't think so. If we had time to explore all the underlying issues of the past, I think even Mr Dassen would agree with me that I am not the symbol of that. What is true is true, but not because I or we are the symbol of that, but because we have all gone further in that, especially after the report of the periodic Committee of Inquiry into Childcare Surgery... is that we have made decisions about working much more transparently from the Cabinet and that we have jointly decided on the Open Government Act. This whole discussion was, of course, already going on at the time. In the meantime, that law has also been passed. I don't know that particular treaty. So I will come back to that in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u151	Mrs Marijnissen, SP, then Mr Azarkan. I suggest that the Prime Minister should then answer the questions that have not been answered. Let's see if everything's been answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u152	I would like to return to the previous part of the debate. I can't believe what just happened. I think the Prime Minister was getting off the hook, too. At least it's quite a piece of old politics. Mrs. Van der Plas was told that she was false because she called it "a pattern." We get it because we stick stickers to things that happen. Mr Klaver has to look back on his own input, because today the Prime Minister had planned to bite off for once, I heard. I wonder where he gets the guts to measure that attitude today.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u153	Because I find that people in society still have great difficulty looking at these kinds of debates, because people in this country... I go back to the seventies. Why was politics loved? Because they saw that Hans Wiegel and Joop den Uyl fought each other at the sharpest of the content, but that there was a great respect among themselves. When I started in politics in 2002... I had debates here as Secretary of State and later as group chairman. Mrs Marijnissen's party was the leader of the opposition. We were the second in the opposition. Afterwards, as Prime Minister, especially in the first ten years, the heavier political discussions always took place from a basic relationship of trust and mutual respect and from the point of view of content. But what's happening over the last few years is not just me, because I see this broader in politics happening so much as putting labels like "you're lying," "you're not telling the truth," "you're trying to twist things up," "you're trying to cover things up" et cetera, et cetera. Small incidents that are easily explained... Hawija: this whole debate has taken place here. From A to Z we have outlined how it went and it is still said: how is it that Rutte didn't know? That whole debate we had here in November 2019 and from A to Z the facts came up, which showed that that was all nonsense. And yet that is still being said. Again, I'm not petty about that. That's why I usually let it go, but again, with this Nokia of mine, from yesterday on all the political responses: "See? It fits a pattern." If I say this, I'm not just saying it for myself. Because again, I think I should have the thickest skin, and I have the thickest skin. I love the work I'm doing. I still love coming to the House of Representatives and I still have the greatest respect for our Parliament and for everyone who sits here, but I notice in society but also in politics, wider, that there is a shift in values and ways of dealing with each other, which I warn against.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u154	How dare the Prime Minister warn us whether I do not know who he is warning about the decline in confidence? I would like to ask who is in charge here over the last few years. The Prime Minister can look back on old times with some romance. I'm sure all that's true, but there's only one person here who's responsible for the past period and for falling confidence. I ask the Prime Minister whether it might be in the answer he has just given, namely that he calls it "small incidents" and passerby. I don't even think he's even aware of it himself. Hawija: small incident. Function elsewhere: small incident. Bones: small incidents. Dividenddebacle: small incident. And now again my Nokia: little incident. Prime Minister, perhaps that could be the reason why that trust is no longer there, I sincerely ask you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u155	First of all, I saw Mrs Marijnissen say in a statement on an election result: it is bad for the SP and that is because Rutte has reduced confidence in politics. The power she gives me is too great. I'm gonna have to point that out to her. I believe that trust in politics is a joint responsibility. I'm not doing that on my own. That's what we do here with each other. That's one. Two. I'm not talking about minor incidents. All these files are huge. That's not what I mean by minor incidents. Mrs. Marijnissen knows very well. I mean to say that there is an attempt to say, you see, that Rutte is cheating on the case. Mrs Marijnissen and I can have a TV debate on that. Then we'll pass them one by one. Then we'll dig them all out. There have undoubtedly been mistakes and things have not gone well and so on, but then the whole of the Netherlands will see that the fundamental image that is being called up here, namely that Rutte has been cheating on all these files, from A to Z, is not true. That's just not right. Mrs Marijnissen knows that, too. That's added up and taken together. Once again, I have a thick skin, so I can take it all, but I can see that it is gradually beginning to gnaw at the way people look at parliament and politics and also at the cabinet, at the pleasure that we enjoy each other exercising the political profession that is so important to public administration.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u156	Mrs Marijnissen, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u157	I find this disgusting. For me, this is the arrogance of power. I'm sorry, I know these are big words, but I really mean it. If those who have been here for years, for periods, he is now in the middle of his fourth cabinet, and he thinks we should take the measure or even warn him of falling confidence, if I understand correctly, then I say: go talk to the people who have been affected in the supplement scandal, go talk to the people in Groningen. Then you will hear why the confidence is falling. That has nothing to do with the fact that the Chamber is critical. That has nothing to do with saying that it is not a minor incident, but that the truth is only a problem when it comes to it. Of course, that's the case now. I also heard the Prime Minister and passerby say: if only I had used that smartphone before. Yeah, now it's a problem, so now there's gonna be a switch. That's exactly the point, isn't it? He'll have to admit that, won't he?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u158	That switch came because he didn't do it in New York two weeks ago. That's not because of the Volkskrant. By the way, that question was asked last Tuesday. Then the RVD heard that the Volkskrant would come up with a piece on Wednesday; they asked us a few questions about that. So this has nothing to do with the switch from that Nokia to a smartphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u159	We're still going to see Mr. Azarkan. I would also like to say to Mrs Ouwehand........................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Then we'll see if there's any questions left. Mr Azarkan, DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u160	I can see the Minister's acting a little irritated and becoming some kind of chef you-baked. He pushes everything back to the MPs, but I think wrong. Because it's about his own actions. It's time he took responsibility for that. I would like to point out to him a sentence in the letter which is actually problematic for the functioning and control of Parliament. It's about the right of inquiry. The minister writes: "A ruler only needs to keep messages that no one else has in the organization." He says he sent it to employees every day so he wouldn't have to keep it. Does the Minister have any idea that if the Chamber wants to apply the right of inquiry and then asks the Ministry to select the information of a number of employees, it will often receive an answer: that means going through 30,000 mailboxes; we are not going to do that for you within the next one and a half years? As Prime Minister, wouldn't he unintentionally hide the information in a place where it's hard to find out?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u161	I don't think so. It is true that the surveys place a huge workload on ministries. Anyway, that's part of our democratic system. We shouldn't take anything away from that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u162	Doesn't that mean we're gonna have to play some kind of detective if we're gonna find out about the Prime Minister's information? If the Prime Minister constantly sends everything to officials on a scale of 12, 13 and we often get it back from ministries that they want us to request 15 information from a scale of scale, isn't it hidden on balance? Then this is not a method that enables the Chamber to carry out its task properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u163	Again, the hand-out on how to handle chat messages such as text messages is completely clear. I've kept to that. In addition, the right of inquiry applies. That is a crucial element. In the past we have seen how important surveys, especially the large survey after World War II, are for the truth finding. They are a huge burden for the departments. Of course, we now experience this in three ongoing surveys, but that is part of the price of democracy, which we must be prepared to pay with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u164	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u165	The fact that it is made incredibly difficult and that it is incredibly much work is because the Prime Minister himself makes the choice to go through with everything and to hide it there unintentionally. Then it's up to us to get it back. That's an incredible amount of work. That's an inefficient way of working, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u166	In any case, I am pleased that it is said "unintentionally." It's not even unintentional. It's not meant to be. There's nothing hidden. The hand-out is just being followed.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u167	I suggest you...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u168	I have a trial question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u169	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u170	It was now mainly about the functioning of the Chamber and its relationship with the cabinet. I think it would be good to consider this at another time and to go back to the content of the debate. That is why it would help me if the Prime Minister indicated what he answered or did not answer, and in what order, because I would know when I would be able to ask another question about that content.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u171	In any case, I suggest that the Prime Minister should answer all the questions, even in view of the time, and then we see if there is any... There is also a second term, but first the Prime Minister answers all the questions. So at least I won't allow any interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u172	Mr. Chairman. I've already answered a lot of questions thanks to the interruptions. The question by Mrs Van der Graaf, Mr Omtzigt and others was about the government Commissioner. There was also a question about the PSI and Heritage Inspection. First of all, about the government commissioner. Under the responsibility of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, he has tasks relating to the information system of the government. This is mainly about monitoring the progress of measures to improve the information system, addressing ministries and also making proposals to resolve bottlenecks. This does not include assessing the actions of rulers. In addition, we have the Government Information and Heritage Inspection. He could be an independent judge. I am prepared, if that helps, to ask that inspection to look at how we have dealt with it at AZ. Is that good or not? Do we have to change things? I would also like to say that I understand from BZK that the government Commissioner believes that the instruction as it stands now leaves room for the chosen method, because the selection of what is and is not preserved is ultimately judged by the administrative body itself. At the same time, the Government Commissioner says that it is important to consider whether the whole system should be set up differently. In this context, I come to a few follow-up questions, from Van der Graaf, from D66, the VVD, the CDA and a number of other parties in the Chamber. I shall first go to Mr Dassen's question about Norway and how it is handled. Of course, that's a possibility, but it's technically complex. That is why no agreement has been reached within the government. However, I would also like to say, regardless of my question to the Heritage Inspectorate to look at the approach taken at AZ, that we are coming forward with a letter to the Chamber on how we intend to shape this approach, in relation to Dassen's request, as well as the wider request to look at the issue of two or four eyes in particular when keeping chat messages. Then, of course, we will also look at how best to do that from BZK. Then there were a few practical questions, namely: how many phones? Well, two. Both from the government, namely the Nokia and the smartphone. I use the smartphone for incoming mails and sometimes I respond to them. Those are actually just e-mails from AZ. That's a secret address. In addition, it's all reports from the RVD about what's going on in the media and I'm looking at the websites there. With the Nokia I always called and texted, but it was replaced by a second smartphone. It keeps all things, even on that thing. I'm still sending them over, too, but they're also being saved on that smartphone. Then the question: how is it stored at the Ministry of AZ? That happens as it should, namely a manual print screen that needs to be stored in Plato, the document management system. But, and then you also come to the question of how that actually works with those archives... There has also been an inspection of the archives, with us but also with other departments. It happens every two years. It reveals the organisation's position on six parts of public sector information management. That is a self-assessment by the organisation concerned. It became available this month. With us, you see a mixed image. Some things are good for each other, such as archiving websites. Others require attention, such as replacement of the paper archive and improved metadata. You'll actually see that in all the departments. This is also laid down in the Open in order national programme, to ensure that it improves further. Then there is the question of changing the rules, including from D66 and other parties. Once again, I made a promise that we will come up with a letter whether it is wise in assessing whether it is an administrative issue or not to have someone else watching in a certain form. Mr Omtzig asked for the action plan to be better archived. We are going to provide that action plan. This will be sent to the Chamber in Q4 this year, in an orderly manner together with the national-wide action plans of all departments within the framework of Open in order. The VVD asked how I look at uniforming of archiving within the cabinet. Strictly speaking, according to the Archive Act, each department itself is responsible for its information management, but that does not mean that it is working from the cabinet to improve that information management. I just outlined a few points. There is, of course, a great deal of emphasis also on the childcare allowance affair. Then I'll take a look at the last questions. The SGP asked: is it well ensured that decisions are well documented and monitored? Again, the Archive Act and the underlying regulations, which contain the rules aimed at sound information management, apply. In the end, of course, it is decisive that the law is properly implemented. That is why the hand-out is important. I think I have applied it well, but to issues like "is it always going to get out of the employee's inbox neatly a print screen in the Platosystem and are no mistakes made?" will be monitored by the inspection. We all need to look at how we can improve this further. Mrs Van der Plas asked: what are private messages? Those are messages from friends and family. When did I know about the publication of the Volkskrant? That was last Tuesday, so after I switched phones. That was a question from Mr Omtzigt, which I thought I had answered. I think that answers the questions, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u173	Thank you. I'll see if there's any questions left. I look first at Mrs Ouwehand, because I think she was one of the first. She's back in the game. That means her questions have been answered. I'm not gonna provoke her. I shall then give the floor to Mr Dassen. Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u174	For the sake of correction, my questions have certainly not been answered, but I have decided to draw a conclusion for the sake of time. I was there earlier on the point that Mrs Marijnissen made, namely that I simply do not understand that the Prime Minister is going to get out of this to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u175	Then we'll go to Mr. Dassen. Did you leave a question? Don't ask me any new questions. You have your second term for that. So only if questions really haven't been answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u176	I would like to ask a question about the kind of commitment that the Prime Minister has just made, because I have a second-term motion on Norway's system. It is not very clear to me what exactly the Prime Minister has promised with: we are going to look at it. That's very vague. Is that specific: we are going to see if phones can be automatically read and archived every week, just as is done in Norway? In this way, the vulnerability of the ministers themselves is reduced, but there are not always discussions about what is and is not coming in and helping them. I could go with that. Otherwise, I'm gonna file a motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u177	Look, that second half anyway. I think that we should look at how to improve the approach in this respect, so that there is not a two-eyed but a four-eyed principle. This will also be the subject of a letter from the BZK. That is the second part of Mr Dassen's remark. The first half is specifically about Norway. I admit that we are analysing this Norwegian proposal, but I am not going to promise that we will; I simply do not know that, because I do not know exactly that approach in Norway. But in the letter we will give a picture of how the Norwegian system works and whether that can help.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u178	I had another question about the oral transfer. We've spent quite a lot of time thinking about that in the supplementing affair. I've asked the Prime Minister about that, too. In his report, Mr Van Dam has paid a great deal of attention to this, because AZ does a great deal of speaking. Paraphrasing the texts is another example of this. You don't have to do that anymore, because there's a new phone. But on AZ there is a pattern of many oral parts instead of reporting or paraphing, as is common in other departments. That's not common on AZ. How does the Prime Minister deal with that fact? This also hampers controllability and checkability.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u179	I don't think AZ is different from that. AZ must ensure the reporting of all the sub- councils and the Council of Ministers. Furthermore, of course, we have all the notes I get when a conversation takes place. I have heard members of the Chamber say: yes, but if you have had a note of a conversation with, for example, the chairman of the FNV or the boss of the KLM, in which an official makes those notes, then should there really be a report of that conversation? We don't. But I also checked this morning, which is not standard in other departments either. Of course, action is being taken on such a conversation that has taken place and the official who sits there has taken notes. Unlike large departments with eight or nine advisors, I am dealing, for example, with one hearing officer in Afghanistan who is also working full-time for weeks. Then it doesn't make much sense to... anyway I find texting inconveniently clumsy, because you miss all the nuances. If you call, you can talk and ask around. This often takes much less time than texting, but texting also happens occasionally. But of course, you often have to deal with one official on such a file. At the moment, we are dealing with another major case of nitrogen, and one official in General Affairs is dealing with it. We've got big cases around Ter Apel. We also follow that from AZ and one official is working on it, so I often have them on the line or I see them in the morning in the actua consultation we have. We'll catch up. So that's how it works. In that sense, it's different from other departments, because we have a small team. But it's also very similar.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u180	Rounding up. I understand how things work. You have made it very clear: no, everything there was in texting, including around Afghanistan, is there. Well, I'll trust that, and if that turns out to be different, we'll find out again. But we also noticed that there is no culture of capturing things. We've had quite a bit of that, too. My general concern and question then is: does the Prime Minister see that, and does he see that it is therefore important to pay particular attention to this, because it is so characteristically different from other departments in AZ?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u181	Not so much within AZ; I think things are going well there. But there were some things I'm responsible for, namely Corona, two things we've adapted. Firstly, the regular meetings of the four most concerned directors. In the beginning they were not defeated and they were defeated later. Those reports all go to the O.V.V., who's working on that investigation. So we did not make any reports of this at first and later. And two: we immediately sent all the slide decks distributed in the Catshuis to the Chamber, also by a comment by Louis Asscher, so that we tried to be as transparent as possible about it, without prejudice to the fact that that was also of course an informal consultation. We did so so that there was as much access as possible to what was on the table.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u182	I'll take a look at Mr. Omtzigt. Is there a question you haven't answered yet?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u183	Yes. It's about the action plan. The Prime Minister says we're gonna send that to the Chamber in the fourth quarter. But the government fell because she informed the Chamber improperly, incompletely and immemorially. There was a conflict between the Chamber and the government as to whether it was politically intended or not. The Van Dam committee said it was, and the government said it wasn't. Anyway, we agreed that archiving should be improved. So there was a letter on the day of the fall of the cabinet that said: within six months we have an action plan. All departments had to indicate before 1 July how they would put their archiving and their affairs in order. And now the Prime Minister says at once: we don't do that until Q4, one and a half years after the deadline given here. In the meantime, are there any minutes of the meetings? Are the messages stored at General Affairs in the meantime? Then there is the second question that has remained. When was the last time the State Information and Heritage Inspectorate checked? The Prime Minister replied that a self-assessment was done. I would like to know when there has been an external inspection for the last time.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u184	I will come back to that in the second term, because I don't know now. As for the first, Q4 sends the updated National Action Plan Open on Order to the Chamber. Then we shall also be sending all the departmental plans together to the Chamber so that at once everything is here. Maybe I can also take the opportunity to say that the text change with Halsema is now being sent to the Chamber. In addition, I am told once again that, according to the hand-out, chat messages also apply: only administrative decision-making and not administrative matters. It is therefore a matter of administrative decision-making. It was then judged from AZ that that demonstration was an administrative matter and not decision-making. But it has also been said that you can simply make it public. That was our point of view at the time of that text.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u185	And that intel will be in the Chamber shortly, you said.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u186	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u187	Finally, Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u188	I am glad to hear that it is at least an administrative matter, because that was the most strange sentence.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u189	I agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u190	And your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u191	Because that was denied by the Prime Minister. At least we are now in agreement on that. And we're going to talk about that decision-making. But that action plan should have been ready in the summer of 2021. That was also the promise after the fall of the cabinet. Now we get the action plans all at once and we have a year and a half before implementation. So then we can no longer ask this entire cabinet period about the implementation of the improvement of the archives. So can I just ask you to get these plans of action?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u192	No, we'll do that in the fourth quarter, because then the whole state-wide action plan will come to the Chamber. What we'll add... I'll ask the Secretary of State for the Interior to send all departmental plans along as well. So it's not like we're not doing anything with that right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u193	You'll have a second term later, Mr. Ommzigt. I have to be as strict considering the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u194	I've got four more...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u195	No, I said you had an opportunity to indicate which questions have not yet been answered. If you have a reply to that question, or if you have a new question, you will have to do so in the second period.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u196	After taking him for half an hour, 45 minutes of premier lectures about the culture in the Chamber and about forms of association, it is very obvious to point him out to his manners, to remind him of the fact that he has been standing here and that he has said "pleasure" to some Dutch people, that he "fight you in" to them. But that is not the case today. It is the way Rutte always debates: distracting from the issue before us. I have asked a few questions to clarify the nature and extent of the archives at General Affairs. The provider has been informed whether messages can be retrieved. You only do that if you really want to. I said, you can't do that. I would like to know how many messages are being sent and received, and I do not need to know who the recipients are. I've also asked what's being filed. I didn't get an answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u197	I have told you what is being archived: everything that has to do with administrative decision-making. By the way, it's more, because I'm actually sending everything that's content to counsellors who keep it. They do this very carefully when it comes to administrative decision-making. You can see that yourself in the Wob requests. What I don't want to do is ask the provider to show all the 06 numbers to which they've been texted and called over the past six months. I'm not gonna do that. We're not gonna see how many texts Rutte sends one day. I'm not gonna do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u198	Then why did you make a request to the provider?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u199	Because that was a question from Mr Klaver: can you bring it up at all? He said yesterday, "Is it possible to get back all those texts?" That was a request from the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u200	That request has been made.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u201	You asked if you could.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u202	Mr. Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u203	No, that question was more precise. I'm not crazy. I know how to play words like this. I asked for the metadata. I know that text messages are not stored with the provider. I asked for the metadata yesterday. The question has been interpreted differently by AZ. The provider has been asked: can we get those texts? Yeah, I knew that answer yesterday: it can't be. That's why I asked for the metadata. You don't even have to share it with the House of Representatives. I don't need a whole list of you. I would like to say to you calmly and businessly that is good for the tone of this debate and that I asked my question because I want to know what the size is. Otherwise, I can't judge how much "everything that's relevant" is. I want to get a sense of that with numbers.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u204	No, I'm not gonna do that, I swear.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u205	Mr. Clover, you can now start with your second term. You asked a question and the Prime Minister replied twice. I now give you the opportunity for a second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u206	A point of order...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u207	No. If it's another question...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u208	I'm going to address you. I'm not going to ask a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u209	You can always do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u210	You give the Prime Minister ample space to talk about all kinds of things that are not on the agenda for today's debate. I'm asking a fucking question yesterday, I'm asking a question today, and it's being deliberately misinterpreted. There's a question asked by providers that they can't meet. Today, I'm going to make it more precise and I'm going to say, "Come up with that data." I ask: how many people have you texted and how many messages have you sent back? That is simply to be able to carry out my supervisory task as a parliamentarians. The Prime Minister says, "I'm not gonna do that." And then I'm not allowed to ask. I don't understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u211	You can start with your second term, Mr. Klaver. The Chamber asked me to end this debate at 4 p.m. This was done at your request, and you have your entire second term to ask any additional questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u212	Mr. Chairman. I think it's really incomprehensible. I just want an insight into the amount of messages we're talking about. When I ask how many messages from the Prime Minister have actually been archived, he says: yes, anything relevant. But how many are there? In order to determine whether that is proportionate, you need these figures. That is a perfectly normal question, but I do not get a transparent answer from the Prime Minister either. I find that significant. Mr. Chairman. I only have a minute in my second term, so I don't have time to ask all the questions, so I'm going to read my motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Prime Minister communicates a lot via SMS and removes these messages from his phone after making an assessment of the messages that need to be transmitted to officials for archiving purposes and, in the case of longer messages, by calling the content of these messages by telephone;]] [[Whereas, in its response to the childcare allowance affair, the Prime Minister's cabinet indicated that information, including information provided under the Archive Act, should be kept sustainably accessible, findable, correct, complete and reliable, so that the conduct before, during and after the completion of the policy and legislation can always be justified;]] [[Notes that this procedure of the Prime Minister is not in the spirit of the Archive Act and the Act of Open Government and that it is therefore an undesirable way of archiving;]] [[calls on the Prime Minister to refrain from removing business text messages and other digital business communications before being approved by an official responsible for archiving,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Klaver, Mr Kuik, Mr Azarkan and Mr Dassen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-III-17]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u213	I asked the question. We need an interrupting debate to bring that up, because the best man in box K does not answer that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u214	Then I give the floor to Mr Azarkan van DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u215	Mr. Chairman. It's basically embarrassing. Today it was not about the conclusion that yesterday the General Court of Auditors drew that the cabinet for the third year in a row cannot justify more and more money, billions. Today it was not about the desperate parents who have been destroyed in recent years and who currently have no confidence in the implementation of the recovery. Today it was not about the millions of parents who saw their purchasing power fall, who are unable to buy food. We saw again last week that an old 80-year-old man walked into the supermarket to steal bread, eggs and cheese, not only for himself but also for others. It's embarrassing. That's what it should be about. No, it was about the Prime Minister deciding which information goes indirectly to the Chamber. And when he's questioned about that, he's gonna stand up you-bake. Then he says, "If you don't trust me, just file a motion of censure." The Prime Minister owes that mistrust to himself. That suspicion is because he doesn't speak the truth. That mistrust is because he always looks for the border when he requests information from the Chamber. The Prime Minister should ask himself that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u216	Thank you. Then we'll go to Mrs. Van der Plas of BBB.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u217	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to come back briefly to the Prime Minister's stretched leg. I really think that's totally inappropriate. He points out that in the seventies it all went so neatly with Wiegel and Van Agt and then takes the Chamber down because it is so critical. Then it's about the tone of the debate. We are talking about the content of the debate. I am very sorry that the Prime Minister has been led to this, probably by emotion. I have a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls for an understanding of the number of reports forwarded daily by the Prime Minister to officials of the Ministry of General Affairs;]] [[calls on the Government to send to the Chamber the specifications of the telephone bill of the Prime Minister since he took office,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Plas and Mr Eppink.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-III-18]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u218	Mr. Chairman. When the cabinet resigned, the cabinet promised to simply answer Article 68 questions. I therefore expect the action plan, which seems to have been there for over a year, to know how the archiving at AZ will be put in order. There'd be a plan for that. I also expect to hear what Mr Van der Plas has to say about how many texts he is receiving and how many are being stored. That's an information request from the Chamber. If that information is not given, then all promises after the resignation of the cabinet are worthless. I'm about to hear how the last inspection went. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to end its cooperation with State Attorney Pels Rijcken, taking into account the orderly conclusion of current cases,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to request the inspection to inspect the archives rapidly at the Ministry of General Affairs and to publish the report before the end of the summer recess,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Omtzigt.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-III-19]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Omtzigt.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-III-20]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u219	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. When the Rutte IV cabinet arrived, our group said that we have no confidence that those who caused the problems will also solve them. Here's what I'm seeing. Last week, I've been here twice. Twice, in a debate with the Prime Minister, I really wondered where he got the guts to show such an attitude. If he thinks he should take the measure of falling confidence in this House, while he himself is the main person responsible for this period of time. I do not need to repeat the whole line of things again. In fact, it only strengthens me in the analysis we made when this cabinet took office. We've been on the road for a few months now, but we do see it. The people who caused the problems are not going to solve the problems.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u220	Thank you, Mrs Marijnissen. Then we'll go to Mr. Wilders, PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u221	Mr. Chairman. It cannot be that Mr Rutte is getting away with this again, with his misconduct and with his malpractice. His attitude here in the Chamber to accuse the Chamber of the atmosphere of mistrust is shameful. The man who has destroyed our country, who has lied to us, who has withheld information, who leads to structural amnesia, who loses everything, even text messages, when it suits him, that man who is you, Mr. Rutte, is himself 100% responsible for the distrust in politics. Mr. Rutte, not the Chamber, not our people in the country, our people, but you're destroying trust. Madam President. We're being paged again now. The Prime Minister's reaction to the first text about Mayor Halsema's riots in Amsterdam to him, to which I as a Member of Parliament asked. He says he has no proof that he sent this text. He says it just happened to have lost that important text, too. Who's gonna believe him? He says it wasn't called administrative. He just added that it would not be about administrative decision-making. Of course, that is completely nonsense, because a decision not to speak to the Mayor of Amsterdam during a riot is, of course, also a decision at the highest level. Mr. Chairman. I'm done. I'm done. The Netherlands is done with it. I'm all done with this Prime Minister. I think we should give up trust in him. I hope you won't be back here in a few weeks or months, because a number of Members of Parliament now, once again, for the thousandth time, do not have the guts to let that man get away with it. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[declares confidence in the Prime Minister,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wilders and Mr Van Haga.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-III-21]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u222	Mr. Chairman. I think the Dutch have looked at this debate with surprise. We could have talked about anything, but we didn't do any of that. We've ruined another whole day. I get a bit of a déjà vu from all the corona debates where also on a large scale the bullshit was played. It is very easy to wave away the conclusion of two leading professors. It is shameless to put the blame for falling confidence in the Chamber's shoes. Technically, it's all very unbelievable. Morally, it's embarrassing. That is why I have also tabled Mr Wilders' motion of censure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u223	Thank you. Then we'll go to Mrs. Chicken, PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u224	Mr. Chairman. I'm just gonna park my grumpy and my discomfort, because we haven't been wasting our day. We are doing what we, as Parliament, are doing: we are exercising our supervisory role. If we do not understand things or cannot explain them to the people at home, it is our role to ask them. Whether or not the Prime Minister likes it and whether or not everyone understands it, that is our role. If I look at the corona crisis alone, I see that there is no data and SMS traffic on 15, 16, 18, 19 and 20 March, the start of the corona crisis, and in the period between 18 April and 15 May. There's nothing when we were in a hot phase. That's what I'm questioning. I don't get it, and then I want to know what's going on. Every time I don't know what's going on, I'll ask you that, because we need to be able to explain it, because we need to be able to intervene in time, because we need to be able to control, because we need to be able to say "that's not right', because we need to be able to learn lessons. Every time we don't do that in big, important files, we miss something. Then we'll all miss the boat. We as Parliament, but also the Prime Minister, whether he gets cranky or not. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u225	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Eppink of JA21.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u226	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have one final point. I read the letter from the country's attorney for the answer to the question of what relevant and irrelevant texts are. The national attorney states that relevant text messages are the texts that are relevant for the reconstruction of administrative decision-making. So they have to be kept. I had asked a question about one of the texts from Mr Polman, former top man of Unilever, sent on 5 October 2018 at 6:00 a.m. a little early. That was about abolishing the dividend tax. My question is: what is the answer to this question? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u227	Thank you. Then we go to Mr Van der Staaij of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u228	Madam President. I would like to thank the Prime Minister for his reply. Of course, it was first of all about the question: did something seriously go wrong in erasing those text messages? On the basis of the debate, I cannot draw the conclusion that something has gone seriously wrong. I can see that there are questions about the practice of archiving text messages, WhatsApp and so on. I think it would be a good idea to take another very critical look at that. Motions will be tabled on this subject and commitments have been made. It is good to continue the debate on this issue. Finally. It also played a short while: when is there healthy distrust, what is involved in the role of the Chamber, and when does it turn into a kind of toxic distrust, which is destructive by its nature? I think that both sides have clearly expressed their views on this issue. And that's also good for once, not necessarily cozy, but good. I think it was quite authentic to see what the different positions in it were like. That gives everyone dust until further thought. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u229	Thank you. There is a question from Mr Azarkan. Mrs Ouwehand also has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u230	If we have not been able to identify what information has been destroyed, then we cannot see that nothing serious has happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u231	I said: on the basis of what we know, what the debate was about and what was mentioned as an example, I have not found a beginning to feel that something has gone dramatically wrong here. That would have been different if there had been a duty to preserve everything. Then you could say: just the fact that a large number of messages have been deleted indicates that there is a pattern of consistently not following rules. I have listened carefully and I have entered the debate with open eyes, but I have not noticed that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u232	This also means that Mr Van der Staaij cannot see that information has been destroyed which is indeed important to the Chamber. We don't know that, do we?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u233	Yeah, that's all true. But if you're asking me if I can prove here that I didn't walk through Benthuizen drunk last night, then I can't just prove it. It is difficult to say or prove that it has not been the case on the basis of facts that have not taken place. So we can always bring up all kinds of suggestions that can radiate the atmosphere that it's all wrong. But I simply say that, given the fact that a distinction may be made, between what you may or may not keep, I cannot draw the conclusion that something has gone very dramatically wrong. I reason in dealing with the cabinet from a normal basic trust and at the same time I also have a healthy distrust if you see any leads in asking. How about this and how about that? The examples have been given. That is what we must do, and I encourage you to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u234	I noticed it in the first period and therefore I would like to ask the SGP. Healthy distrust and a healthy relationship of trust, but how does the SGP see the remark of the Committee on the Evaluation of the Supplements affair, the Supplements scandal, which was honest to the Chamber and was not the guiding principle and that political motives were behind it? You can't just forget that, because that's actually how we see Cabinet operating. After all, this cabinet is actually the same cabinet, because it has made a start. Or does the SGP say "I have read that report, we have had one debate on it and I forget that now, because from now on we have the rule of trust again"? In other words, does the SGP once again have complete confidence in the cabinet, unless some critical MPs, like some police officers, managed to bring that confidence to bear?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u235	In that debate, we went together on many points, but I think sometimes we also had a slightly different appreciation of parts. From that debate, I have not forgotten that I must now assume that they will cheat in the future in dealing with the rulers or the Prime Minister. I'll see something else that worries me. I sometimes hear in the corridors of civil servants or other people who are close to it that they are sometimes worried: if you come out with something about what went wrong, then they make such a point of it and create such a drama that you almost tend to keep it to yourself. I regret that, because that is not the relaxed way in which we should be dealing with each other. I would like to argue for more space to be able to say sometimes just open up: where is chopped, chips fall. Things have gone wrong, and we have to learn from it. Sometimes things have gone very wrong, especially with that supplemental affair. We must certainly learn from this. Not naive and not cynical: these are the cliffs we try to sail through in our daily work. I'm not saying we do that perfectly. Sometimes I'm... Very often I am glad that we are all different again: one takes it a bit more sister and the other takes it a bit more like that. But at least that's how I stand in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u236	But now Mr Van der Staaij pretends that the whole report is not written and that everyone in this Chamber is there with the best intentions. Of course you can make mistakes, but if proven... That's what Mr Van der Staaij was talking about when he said: I didn't see it all. But it has been shown that openness and simply respect the Constitution were not the guiding principles in Rutte's cabinet. There were desirable legal and political outcomes leading. Then you can't go back to the naive attitude: everyone here does their very best in conscience?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u237	Parliamentary history is long and there have been several times when things have gone wrong. We must be on top of that in order to improve that, but I am convinced that there is also an effort on all sides to find the good for this country. Sometimes that happens from very different viewpoints and sometimes things go wrong. We have to be alert and we have to jump on top of that, but we should not want to deal with each other in this way. If you keep assuming that... If you're always assuming bad faith, I don't think the system is working anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u238	But I didn't say that. We don't always assume "too bad faith." We're gonna follow the basic rule that if you have the power, you have to make sure you can be properly controlled. This is how it works in our parliamentary democracy. That is the protection of the rule of law and the importance of our citizens. If there is reason to think "gosh, maybe the sitting power hasn't done what may be expected of her," then the Chamber takes action. We don't sit here all day in bad faith thinking they're doing everything wrong. But Mr Van der Staaij, with his Stately Reformed Party, simply ignores the fact that there are indeed signs and that there are facts that are contrary to how it should function here. And then it's not about the relationship between Chamber and Cabinet and who acts out of mistrust. It's about controlling power. And if that rule has not been complied with, Mr Van der Staaij must also support the Chamber in all critical questions to the cabinet. That would be my call.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u239	Thank you, Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u240	Sure. Critical questions are always good. The same applies to healthy distrust and control of power. Congratulations.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u241	I'm curious. I have great respect for Mr Van der Staaij, also for his contemplative words and the fact that he can pull the sting out of something. I admire that to Mr Van der Staaij. The Prime Minister has actually said here: the House of Representatives is to blame. While not all MPs use the word "lieger" for example. This may vary from one party to another or from one political group member to another. But the Prime Minister has just held the entire Lower House more or less responsible for reducing confidence in politics. Mr Van der Staaij also followed the debate. I would like to know how he looked at that as a nestor of the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u242	I'm also here in the Chamber to check the cabinet. I'm not here to check on my colleagues. So I am not going to ask all kinds of critical questions to colleagues, such as: are you not being too critical? The government is man enough to defend itself. Mrs van der Plas raised the issue of public confidence in the government in the debate with Prime Minister Rutte; I am concerned about this, as she does. The Prime Minister's reaction was: yes, but it is two-way. In general, I think again, I am not going to be the referee in that; I do not pretend that it is true, because we are doing it together. It is always good to address the other critically, but also to ask yourself whether you are indeed asking critical questions and whether you are feeding confidence that the Chamber is man enough to keep an eye on the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u243	Finally, Mrs van der Plas.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u244	A while ago, I requested a debate on citizens' confidence in government and politics. That was taken off the table with a large majority of votes, because then we would be talking about ourselves again. But that debate was meant not to talk about ourselves, but about those citizens, and about how we can restore that trust. In my reply to the Prime Minister, I refer to this more often than not, not only the Prime Minister or only the Cabinet, but also politics. That's what I'm doing. I often reflect on my own behavior. But in fact, the Prime Minister here gives the House of Representatives a motion of censure. 'Cause he says, "You're always gonna be suspicious." But I find that strange, because now the Prime Minister himself assumes mistrust. You know what I mean? It's a back and forth. So, in fact, the Chamber has received a motion of censure from the Prime Minister. I am therefore curious: how can we solve this, according to Mr Van der Staaij? Because there's just clearly been a crisis of confidence, and today it's been magnified.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u245	I think Mrs van der Plas is right to say that basic trust is needed somewhere in the government's approach, in addition to critical questions. But that's the other way around. If Members of Parliament are thought to be just out to criticize, then that does not help the good relations either. So it's true: it's a two-way thing to look out for.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u246	Thank you. Then we go to Mrs. Ouwehand, Party for the Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u247	Mr. Chairman. I'm just admitting that today I didn't do my job as a Member of Parliament well enough. I didn't feel like being a cop again, playing detective again. Now, in this case, I had to look into the technical details of a Nokia of the model the Prime Minister had. Is it true or is it not true that there could only be 20 texts on it? That's not our role. The Prime Minister has an independent responsibility to ensure that we can control the dominant position he has in our democratic rule of law. The Prime Minister simply has a very bad track record. If you ask him about that, he'll swing at the chamber. I strongly remind the Prime Minister of the Committee of Inquiry into the Supplementary Scandal, and we know that there are political motives behind not informing the Chamber, society, properly, transparently and publicly. We have always said that we do not trust it. No, we're gonna prove that we're gonna do it differently. I haven't seen that evidence yet. Of course we support Mr Wilders' motion. Please, let us come to the conclusion that we no longer have to waste our precious time on this kind of debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u248	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Dassen van Volt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u249	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The feeling of "there we go again" has stayed all day. I hope that with a few motions we can at least make some changes to this. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the implementation of the Archive Act in the "Keeping of Chat Messages: Handheld for the Government" is invested under the principle that directors themselves bear responsibility for the selection of chat messages to be kept or not;]] [[noting that the document management system (DMS) retains administrative decision-making messages, and the hand-out states that notification can only be deleted by directors themselves after inclusion in DMS;]] [[noting that Norway has agreed to have all telephones of all directors read on chat traffic every week and to archive this traffic;]] [[calls on the Government to instruct the Ministry of General Affairs to have the telephone of all directors read out on chat traffic on a weekly basis, on the basis of the technical standards of that time, and to have the relevant chat traffic included in the document management system,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Open Government Act (Woo) entered into force on 1 May last;]] [[noting that in 2009 the Netherlands was the initiator of the Tromsø Convention, which established the general right of access to official documents of public authorities and thereby embedded internationally;]] [[noting that the Netherlands has not yet signed and ratified this Convention;]] [[calls on the Government to sign the Treaty of Tromsø and to submit a proposal for ratification to the Chamber within four months,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Dassen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-III-22]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Dassen and Mr Omtzigt.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-III-23]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u250	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In view of the time available, I agree with Mr Van der Staaij's words in the second term. It is important, also with a view to the future, to remove vulnerabilities. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there is no legal obligation to retain all information;]] [[Whereas the spirit of the Archive Act is that information should be kept in order and accessible;]] [[calls on the Government to establish a uniform working method for directors in relation to the archiving of communications, such as SMS and app messages, and to achieve more control and safeguards in this way,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ellian, Mr Bontenbal, Mr Dassen and Mr Van der Graaf.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-III-24]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u251	Thank you. I would like to ask Mr Ellian the following. In the first term, I asked him the same thing, but then he did not want to answer it and he said: no, I want to wait for the Prime Minister's answers first. I asked him, "Does he think there's a pattern?" We have heard the Prime Minister's answers. In fact, the House of Representatives is mainly blamed for the falling confidence. How does Mr Ellian feel about that? Does he agree with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u252	In my work as a representative of the people, I try to point the finger as little as possible. I tasted and tasted a tense atmosphere in this room. I see it as my duty to the people of this country to work with you, all the other colleagues and with the government to restore trust, but also to solve problems. I don't really want to answer the blame question or you-bake. There's work to be done. That's what I'm here for. I'd like to do that with you and others. The House of Representatives is doing its job. I think it's okay to crack in here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u253	After further inquiries, the Prime Minister admitted to Mr Wilders and me that it is not an administrative matter that he stores, but an administrative decision-making. It'll throw away 90% of your documents and texts. Any consultation that concerns notes, intentions and possibilities, you can throw directly into the trash. Is it the lecture of a good lawyer such as Mr Ellian, who says in the Archive Act that you can simply throw away the matters relating to administrative matters? Then we are talking about contacts with the mayor of the country's largest city and other ministers.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u254	Whether or not something has been thrown away is not entirely clear to me. But on administrative matters, I believe that a motion by Mr Van der Graaf will shortly be tabled. That is also in the motion I have just tabled. Uniformity is important here. It is a concept that has been filled out by the Council of State. There are several ways to look at that. The strict interpretation is: if I don't have to make an administrative decision, and if communication is not the basis for making a decision, then it can go away. But I did not mention the spirit of the Archive Act in the motion for nothing. It would be good if we looked carefully at this concept.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u255	I'm gonna read between the lines. Then I'm going to the second point. We do not get the answer to the question of how many texts have been kept from the Prime Minister to several questions from Mr Klaver, Mr Wilders, Mr Jansen and myself. That is a very normal question under Rule 68. What would Mr Ellian think if one or two texts were kept by the Prime Minister each week? Do you think that's the only decision he makes, given all the decisions he makes and the fact that he's regularly seen texting? So it's not like he'd never do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u256	That's a like-dan question. I do not think that it makes much sense to go into that now, because the essence of the matter is that a selection is being made, but then we come back to the first term altogether. Mr Van der Staaij has just appointed this. A 100% check is not possible, no matter what we do. So it is also a question of whether someone is acting in the spirit of what is meant. The Prime Minister has repeatedly replied that he is doing so. That's what I'm assuming.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u257	Mr. Overzigt, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u258	The background to this question was the following. De Volkskrant has just published that the Prime Minister has stored 41 texts in the half-year period between December 2020 and June 2021. [[Sentence could not be parsed: Dat zijn er anderhalf per week; daarom zei ik: "een tot twee".]] This is the question that the Prime Minister did not just want to answer: how many have been stored and how many have been sent? The guess now is that 99% of the messages are not saved. Does Mr Ellian think that, given all the coordination that takes place in the coalition and on corona, only one and a half messages per week are being sent that have something to do with decision-making or administrative matters?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u259	But that is not the only criterion, because as has been discussed and discussed repeatedly today, a lot of internal matters have to be stored. If others also have the message, it must also be saved. So I don't really know what to say about the number of 41. Yeah, that could be enough. I also agree with Mr Van der Staaij: you do not have 100% certainty. If you assume "it will not be right," the Prime Minister can never defend himself on that point either. Then I can never give a sensible answer to this either. The question is also whether you trust that the selection is well done. That's relevant. That can be guaranteed with more guarantees, and I have tabled a motion for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u260	Mr Klaver and then Mr Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u261	The point is that it has to be verifiable. Now we make it a matter of trusting Mark Rutte as a human being? That is not relevant in this Chamber at all. We are speaking to each other in a certain way; we are not saying here for nothing through the President "the Prime Minister." I need to be able to check the Prime Minister's office. We've been asking questions. I asked yesterday, I asked in my first term and I asked in interrupting debates. I can't get an answer. Now it appears through the Volkskrant that there are indeed 41 messages from the Prime Minister archived. Maybe that's a lot; that's possible. Maybe he just deserves a charter, but how am I supposed to check it? From a colleague, including a coalition party, I expect him to say: Mr Klaver, you are right; I am on your side, because the Prime Minister must indicate how many messages he has sent and how many messages have come in so that we can put this in context. You can't do that right now. This House of Representatives cannot do its job. Then we'll come back to a pattern. I keep repeating this: even in the case of the premium affair, we did not have the information available to check whether the cabinet is doing its job properly. All I'm asking for right now is information. Even at that point it is simply said with the arrogance of power that we do not.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u262	One of the important lessons of the supplementing affair, I fear, is that the victims do not have much to gain from this, and that the information position of the Chamber needs to be significantly improved. You know more about that than I do, because you're walking around here longer. There are also several parliamentary working groups on this issue. That's a fact. The cabinet has also promised to improve, but I'll stick with it, Mr. Klaver, perhaps that's another valuation of mine that 100% control of filing doesn't exist, even if you know how many messages would or wouldn't have been sent. Maybe a lot of messages don't matter at all. So we're not gonna find out. What matters is: how do you ensure that the selection is carefully made? I have heard a lot of sensible answers from colleagues. There are also a number of motions. If someone's gonna watch it later, it'll do much more to meet the need you feel rightly, than we're gonna compare numbers. By the way, if you have a good point, I'm the first to agree with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u263	Do you support my request?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u264	What request?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u265	The request that I have already made perhaps fifteen times in this debate. I asked the Prime Minister to explain how many messages he has received, how many have been sent and how many have been filed, at least in the last six months. That way we can weigh this and see if it is in balance. The Prime Minister just said, "I'm not doing that." I am also asking you to do this, precisely as a member of the coalition. It's an information question. We'll draw conclusions after that. Do you support that request?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u266	The question of information should ultimately lead to a certain sensible consideration. I just outlined to you that I doubt that you can make a sensible assessment of that information here, because you don't know exactly how the selection went. You don't know what trade-offs have been going on there. This is separate from the fact that I wonder if it is relevant to know how many messages were sent to which number. So I have to say honestly that I have considerable doubts about this request.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u267	Finally. Here in a nutshell is the problem, the reason why this House of Representatives never gets the information she needs. That is the essence of Article 68. You say you don't know if it's relevant information. That's not relevant. If one of your colleagues asks for information here and a ruler says that he does not deliver it, he must appeal to the interest of the State. If that is not done, that information must be provided. Instead of saying "Mr. Klaver, you're absolutely right; I'm on your side," you say "well, I don't know if this is relevant." This is so incredibly telling. This is a shame. You can expect the VVD and all coalition parties to have a dualist attitude, just as you can expect opposition parties to act together at times that matter, and be prepared to look constructively at the policy of this cabinet. I miss that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u268	That's a...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u269	...a call. Then we'll go to...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u270	...a theorem.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u271	Yeah, even a statement. Then we go to Mr. Azarkan, DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u272	I was wondering for a while. Mr Ellian indicated in a clause to Mr Omtzigt that it would have to be more careful. On what point has the Prime Minister not acted carefully enough?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u273	What can be more careful is that safeguards are built in and that the decision about what can or cannot be archived is no longer just one person, one person, but that others are going to watch. That's an idea. There are also other possibilities. But given what many colleagues have brought in, I can imagine that is one of the possibilities. The Prime Minister himself has also said that it might be better for him to have someone look with him.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u274	In fact, Mr Ellian's conclusion, just like Mr Van der Staaij's, is that I am actually someone of confidence; I have not been able to see that anything has gone wrong, and that is why I trust that the Prime Minister has made the right assessment so far; he has done nothing wrong. I would like to give the following to Mr Ellian. If I had had the same attitude as Mr Ellian, part of the Chamber would never have received the information behind the premium crime. Then part of the Chamber would never have gotten the information on the blacklists. The first answers, also to me, were: there are no blacklists. The Prime Minister for a long time denied that there were memos on the dividend tax until we had done nine debates. And then there turned out to be 31. I say to Mr. Ellian, trust is good, but it undermines your control function, so it would be good if you naturally become a little more suspicious.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u275	It's almost an advice addressed to me, but again, I don't see myself as the most gullible person in this world. I was confronted with the hardness of this world at a relatively young age. Again, I'm not here to keep anyone in a chair. I'm here to do my job, but I'm filling in something else. But I hear very clearly what Mr Azarkan is saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u276	I'll come back to the message from the Volkskrant anyway. I just saw something jumping on their website. Turns out what? De Volkskrant found out that between December 2019 and 11 June 2020, six months, 41 texts that Rutte himself sent, were preserved. There's no text message with a response from Rutte to any of the people who texted him. We are talking about the Prime Minister of the Netherlands, who says he keeps only insignificant, non-administrative or administrative decision-making texts. So that's zero when it comes to answers from him on administratively relevant matters. It really looks like this was just a cover-up Nokia. I'll ask the Prime Minister right away. This was just a cover-up Nokia, because the Prime Minister of the Netherlands, who deals with a hundred files, has in six months made zero texts from himself in response to those who sent him something about administrative matters. We're really just being fooled here. Do you agree with me and with Mr Klaver, who just asked, that we should all get those documents to the Chamber? It's not about the quantities, about what, what, what not. We need to see that. 'Cause if you agree to this, you'll just agree to a cover-up Nokia.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u277	I wouldn't say "deadpot." I'll leave those words on Mr. Wilders' behalf. A lot is also done about suggestive reasoning. Mr Van der Staaij also said: you must have a beginning of proof. That works both ways. Perhaps the answers were: ok; no; cc sg; cc die; no, call. Do they have to be archived? I don't know. I don't think so. I should like to say that I do not know the Prime Minister very well; I read in the newspapers that he responds briefly. Do all those texts need to be archived? I don't know, Mr. Wilders. That number doesn't have to be crazy in itself, does it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u278	But in a year in which Corona played among other things, that would mean... that's what the Volkskrant says. They're absolutely right about that. Rutte would have sent zero texts to RIVM director Van Disssel. Zero texts to Hubert Bruls from the Security Council. Zero texts to Hugo de Jonge. That is totally unbelievable, at least in the sense that they were administrative decision-making or administrative and that he had to keep them. In a year in which all this played, he sent zero. No one's gonna believe that! Then it's a cover-up phone, isn't it? Or the prime minister screwed things over. All I ask is that, in order to establish this, we ask the Prime Minister to send all that information to the House of Representatives so that we can check it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u279	While I'm standing here in second term, I get that message. I didn't even see it when I was sitting there. That doesn't have to be an excuse. People will say again: Easy, Mr. Ellian. I'm curious about the reaction of the person who would have sent those answers, because that wasn't me. Let the Prime Minister explain that. I'm not gonna fill that out for anyone else. I can imagine that very short answers have been given.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u280	Thank you, Mr. Ellian. Then we'll go to Mr. Sneller, D66. Then we suspend for ten minutes and then there's something of space, I say, looking at the Prime Minister. Mr. Sneller.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u281	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First about the past. I had asked the Prime Minister what he did, or did, in doubt. On the one hand, he says that the hand-out is clip-and-ready. On the other hand, we can also see that there is quite a bit of uncertainty as to when you should or should not keep something, for example when it comes to such an opinion procedure. The hand-out then talks about administrative decision-making rather than an administrative matter, as stated in the Wob. Therefore, I do not think that the argument in that speech is very strong. I therefore welcome the Prime Minister's commitment to look at the past as well. Let's have that inspection check it out. I would like to hear the added value of Mr Omtzigt's motion, but I think it is important that we know that for the past. For the future, the Prime Minister has made a commitment to come up with a plan for improvement. At the same time, a number of motions have also been tabled which make suggestions for this. It is a little too far for me to immediately sound certain models, as some motions call for, but I would like it not to run away, so I would like a time limit for us to receive that plan. Finally, I have one question for the Prime Minister: what will he actually do differently from now on?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u282	Thank you. Then we'll go to Mr. Bontenbal, CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u283	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna be brief. I believe that Mr Van der Staaij has said something worthy. I thank the Prime Minister for his answers. I don't think there's been too much bad faith, but I think it's been awkward to deal with it like that. I'm glad he's coming up with a plan of action to do better. There are some colleagues who are tabling motions on my behalf, so they are being explained by themselves. I would like to end with a quote that always inspires me very much, by the Czech writer Václav Havel. He once wrote: "Authentic politics, the only policy I wish to devote myself to, is simply a question of service to the people around us and to the people who come after us." I think that many members of this House have gone with that attitude in politics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u284	Thank you. Then we go to Mr Jansen of the Forum for Democracy. No, Mr. Ommzigt, given the time. One question, then.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u285	How does Mr. Bontenbal assess 41 saved texts in six months, so one and a half texts a week? The Prime Minister, who sits on his phone all day, therefore finds only one and a half texts per week relevant enough to keep.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u286	I agree with Mr Ellian's answers. I can't judge what the total is. It has been said that some of the texts are sent to officials and stored by them. So I don't know what the share is. Is that 1%, 10% or 90%? In addition, I find it rather difficult for a Volkskrant article to be published during the debate. I can't even read that right. If that is suddenly brought into the debate, I would like the Prime Minister's reaction to it, but I can't comment on that here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u287	Thank you. We're going to Mr. Jansen, Forum for...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u288	But that's the whole point! We asked for this information! And now you're saying there's going to be a Volkskrant article, and I can't respond to that. But we asked for it. If that information had been there, you could have read in and responded.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u289	We are going to Mr Jansen, Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u290	Thank you, Madam President. I believe that this debate has only further endorsed what we already knew: the Prime Minister is lying and talking about a lot of things. This is just another case in that row. We will therefore, of course, support Mr Wilders' motion of censure, but I assume that the coalition will not do so. So it's probably going to change very little again, because Joost Eerdmans is probably going to majority with them. That's why I have a different kind of motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[states that Prime Minister Mark Rutte is not above the law,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Jansen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-III-25]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u291	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u292	Thank you. Then we'll go to Mrs. Van der Graaf, Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u293	Thank you, Mr President. I think it was important that we spoke today. The importance of transparency has been highlighted. I'm reading two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the current directives place great responsibility on directors in the choices concerning the use of communication channels and their archiving;]] [[calls on the Government Commissioner for Information Management to provide advice on the use of communication channels in relation to archival and public access legislation and, on this basis, to strengthen the guidelines and working methods,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Van der Graaf, Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Ellian and Mr Bontenbal.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-III-26]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u294	A further motion following the debate on the interpretation of the manual. I think the Prime Minister has taken too much room in that. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there is a difference of understanding as to the interpretation of Annex 4 of the Handheld Keeping of Chat Messages;]] [[declares that the hand-out should be interpreted in such a way that a chat message to be kept should actually be archived in its entirety,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van der Graaf and Mr Dassen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-III-27]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u295	The next item is the debate on text messages on the Prime Minister's phone. Mrs. Chicken.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u296	I would like it, because we didn't get that chance, if the Prime Minister were to at least comment on those 41 texts and why there are so few in six months. There were two crises and zero texts; that puzzles a bit of my head. So that would be nice.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u297	I would like to add the following. The debate was rather harsh against it, but I am genuinely curious whether the Prime Minister may understand that it is frustrating for us as a Chamber that we are asking for it and that there is a whole debate about it, and that we should then read from our phone calls from the newspaper that that information seems to be there. So it is not the first time that we have debated this on the basis of things that have been discussed by the media, but of course we have just discussed it in detail here in the Chamber. Does he understand that it's hard for us to operate too?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u298	Finally, Mrs van der Plas.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u299	I would actually like the Prime Minister to come back to that mistrust. I quote the Prime Minister at the press conference on 8 April on a question from Sam Hagens of SBS, namely: do you think there is too much distrust in the Lower House of the Cabinet? That's what the Prime Minister says...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u300	I'm gonna stop you right now. These are new questions. Indeed, I hear that someone is right to say that there is no third term. It is simply a question of perhaps asking a number of specific questions. So perhaps you could let the Prime Minister know very briefly what he has yet to respond to?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u301	Very briefly. The Prime Minister said there: it seems to me to be the task of the House of Representatives to, in itself of course, hope for a majority given to a government, and to follow that government suspiciously. I would like an answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u302	Okay. Finally, Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u303	On the resignation of the cabinet, the government said that there is a long discussion about the provision of information from the cabinet to the Chamber, including under Article 68 of the Constitution, which is not good for the functioning of politics. She then made a promise that the documents, unless they are in the interests of the State, would come to the fore. So I'm just expecting both information and documents. There must therefore be an action plan since 1 July...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u304	Mr Omtzigt, I say to you the same thing I said to Mrs Van der Plas: there is no third term. We're not gonna ask any new questions right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u305	No, this question is not new, but I want the answer to it, because I have already asked it three times, about the action plan. I just want to know how many texts were sent and stored. That is simply a question under Article 68 of the Constitution and about the latest inspection.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u306	Finally, Mr Van Haga, and we are going to listen to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u307	In the previous period, I asked for the following. When it comes to about 1,000 texts, you can erase 400 and forward 400 and paraphrase 200. Then I wondered how many hours a day the Prime Minister was working on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u308	That's the question you asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u309	Yeah, I put it, but I'm feeling a little cheated, 'cause...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u310	No, but... no.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u311	Sorry, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u312	This is really gonna be a third term. Sorry. No, I'm not gonna let you do this. I am really giving the floor to the Prime Minister, because otherwise we are going to have a debate again. I don't want to. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u313	That Volkskrant article is about the lawsuit. That case is under the judge, too. This is very specific about text messages that are aimed at preventing the spread of the coronavirus. At that time, Hugo de Jonge, Van Dissel and myself actually had permanent crisis consultations. Things like that have hardly been texted at times like that. Everything went in the meetings at that time and by telephone, also because it was so complex, that if you then went to send a policy text, you really had to get answers again from thirty angles. It doesn't work. So that's why. Very specifically, it was about the spread of the corona virus. That's what this trial is about. It's under the judge, so I'm not gonna say too much about it either. That is also the case of which you have seen the advocacy note of the national attorney. But that's the explanation. But again, we sat together three times a week and in between, and we called endlessly. That was just the start of the crisis.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u314	You have to believe it, don't you? Because if we put everything together in that six months, there were zero e-mails from the prime minister to Van Dissel and De Jonge. De Jonge and Van Dissel both used their private e-mail; that was not allowed either. How credible is it that, although you often saw each other, in six months you have sent zero texts to Van Dissel and to De Jonge? It's six months, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u315	In any case, no text messages from the search that are politically substantive. I really think that's very explainable. From the beginning of March, we were actually in some kind of permanent crisis consultation. Everything was so complex that we also constantly in between I couldn't switch from my Nokia to other iPhones by phone.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u316	I can't prove it's not, I can only say I don't believe it, but I can tell from my water that there's a cesspool of misery underneath this file.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u317	There isn't, so...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u318	Well, I think I was talking. Now again this irritated reaction of the Prime Minister shows that there is a cesspool of misery underneath. Perhaps we should investigate this to the bottom with a parliamentary questioning or otherwise, because this stinks from all sides.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u319	Well, nice words. Mr. Chairman. Then there is Mr Polman's text. Of course, that has been discussed before. It wasn't preserved. That was in 2018, even before the ruling of the Council of State. This was also reported to the Chamber on 5 June 2019. It was a text from October 5, 2018. The content was completely clear, namely: we are not coming to the Netherlands. That's all come out at the time. This naturally led to the deletion of the dividend tax measure. Then there is the question of when the inspection was at General Affairs. The latest study was in 2020, at 35 organisations including the Ministry of AZ, which examined the sustainable accessibility of MH17 information. In 2018, the PSI and Heritage Inspectorate reported on the research into sustainable digital accessibility. This was carried out in the first half of 2016 by all core departments. What else am I gonna do? Three things. First of all, another phone. That means that all these practical problems are now gone. I do not need to give oral messages anymore. I am, of course, willing to explore how the vulnerabilities in the system can be further reduced, as promised. By the way, about the Wob decision on the Volkskrant, the House of Representatives has been informed with a link to the decision plus the documents. Then there's the motions. The motion in part No. 17 of GroenLinks I advise against. The system of ministerial responsibility applies here. The Minister must ask the official for permission and this does not relate to the ministerial responsibility. The motion in part No. 18 I would advise against referring to the debate. The motion in part No. 19, I advise. And I'd like to say a few words about the state's attorney. Here's just a really big law firm put in the big trash. I'm having a hard time with that. I really object to that. A committee has been set up to investigate the reasons the State may have for bringing in the national attorney and whether the government can employ lawyers. We'll wait for that investigation. There have been things said here about that office that I find extremely annoying. The motion in part No. 20 gets, as far as I'm concerned, judgment room. Questions can be asked, but it is, of course, up to the inspection whether she is doing so. The motion in part No. 21 is a ruling from the Chamber. I don't need an opinion on that. The motion in part No. Twenty-two, I'd advise against it. I am not just willing to take over Norwegian practice in the Netherlands. What we are going to do is consider this Norwegian practice in the exploration to improve the existing practice. I would like to ask for the motion in part No. 23 to be retained. We're here for the summer with a letter at this point. Since the motion is too pre-arranged for the solution, I should dissuade her for the moment. Therefore, my request to the author, Mr Dassen, or else the supporter, Mr Omtzigt, to hold the motion. Oh, I see Mr. Dassen is here. Otherwise, I'm gonna have to dissuade the motion. Again, we're coming in for the summer with a letter. We'll take all these thoughts into account. The motion in part No. 24 Court of Justice with reference to the debate. The motion in part No. 25 is a speech-expression. The motion in part No. 26: Judgment Room. I have already said that the Minister for Foreign Affairs has been asked to see how we can explain that instruction. I'd like that in two. Apart from that, in a general sense, I would like to take a fundamental look at how the legal system works in relation to the use of chat messages. On the basis of the Woo we would also like to ask advice from the independent Advisory College Publicity and Information Management. So a quick action and a more fundamental action. The motion in part No. 27 is a speech expression, but I would like to say to the Chamber: wait for the letter. That would be my suggestion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u320	Thank you. There is a question from Mr Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u321	I have asked to understand how many messages the Prime Minister has received, how many messages he has sent and how many have been archived. I don't need to know the persons, I don't need to know phone numbers, I just want this aggregated information. I see no reason why that cannot be shared with the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u322	I have answered that a few times now. I'm not.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u323	The interesting thing about this Chamber is that it is not enough just to say: I am not going to do that. The House of Representatives is entitled to information. Unless the Prime Minister invokes the exceptions provided for in Article 68 and states that the interest of the State is at stake... then he has a very good reason not to share this information. If that reason is not there, it is the arrogance of power if he does not give this information.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u324	I have just had an extensive debate. I'm really referring to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u325	No, that debate was not held, because the answer was every time: I am not giving it. I would like to inform you that you have an obligation to inform this Chamber. I refer to the Constitution. Do you invoke the interest of the State not to share this information with the House of Representatives?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u326	No, but it's not that black and white. I'm not going to accept the request.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u327	That's not enough. You're saying it's not so black and white, but what's the reason you keep this information from the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u328	It is not the case that Article 68 requires everything unless the interest of the State is at stake.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u329	What is the ground on which you refuse this?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u330	We're getting access to texting now. Of course, that doesn't mean anything. That could be thousands of texts with "okay," "thanks," "!'. What does that say?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u331	Again, that is not available. We can't look at all the texts. I'm not asking for that. I'm asking for the metadata. How many messages have you received, how many have come in and how many have been archived? It is not up to the Prime Minister to say: 'you can't do anything with that', 'that doesn't mean anything' or 'the context is complicated'. It's up to us to judge that. This is an information question. If requested, you have that information to provide to the House of Representatives, unless you use an exception to Article 68. I want to know now what that exception is.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u332	I shall return to that in writing. Let me do that. It's wider. Rule 68 is not as black and white as Mr Klaver interprets it here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u333	I think that we are going to come to terms with the Prime Minister's reaction in writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u334	I'm sorry, but that's not enough. I asked for this yesterday and asked for it today in the first term. It's said, "I won't do it, I won't do it." He's so obvious he won't do it. Then I want to know on what basis he thinks he can withhold this information from the House of Representatives. And I will tell you: there is no land.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u335	I will return to it in writing. But this is all in the colour bath of the debate and the mistrust.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u336	On the day of the resignation of the cabinet, we received a letter from the Prime Minister on 15 January. It said, "We're gonna do better." If the Chamber or a Member of Parliament requests information, it may be refused only because of the interest of the State, as set out in Article 68. This also applies to specific documents requested by a Member of Parliament. And that's it. There was no more grounds for exception. Mr Klaver, Mr Wilders and I are very neat. We don't need to know exactly what texts they are right now. But the reason for this is that we have a survey on corona in two years' time. Then we just want to know if the documents are stored a little neatly. If the question is asked "can I see the action plan adopted on 1 July 2020 to make things better at AZ', then this action plan should be sent to the Chamber as a matter of course. That doesn't have to stand up for the debate, but I want it within a week. I'm making that request here, under Rule 68. If I don't get it, I'm gonna make a personal appeal. The second thing I am asking for is the amount of text messages that have been sent over the last two years and which have been kept by the Prime Minister for the past two years. That's just an information request that's been made pertinently here. And yes, I have asked for some examples of reporting written texts. That's what I'm asking. If we don't get that information, we can't control the government. And then I wonder if the government is so suspicious of The Chamber that it doesn't want to give us the information. Because the government distrusts the Chamber instead of the other way around.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u337	I shall return to both points in writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u338	Can you report...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u339	We will not return to the Constitution in writing!
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u340	Another question to the Prime Minister about the letter that was promised in response to Mr Klaver's question. When can the Chamber see it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u341	As soon as possible. I'll see how fast it can be. I'll let the Room know.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u342	I have a point of order addressed to the President of the House of Representatives. There's been an extensive change. You too, Chairman, have written letters to the Cabinet about how we deal with information. It contains Article 68 and this right very explicitly. You laid that down with the Prime Minister and all nineteen other ministers. I would ask you to write a letter and request these documents under Article 68 from the Cabinet, without exception. The only thing is the state's interest, but I can't imagine the state's interest in the number of texts.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u343	Finally, Mr Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u344	Of course, I agree with that, but I actually think it should be now. We have a constitution for a reason. Mr Klaver, Mr Omtzigt and myself are simply entitled to ask for that information. You must give that information to us on the basis of the Constitution. Then, because the debate wasn't fun for you, you can't say "I don't" or "I'll answer to it" or I can tell you what. You have to do that now. We're the boss. The Chamber is the boss of state law when it comes to requesting information, unless you have good grounds for exception. So I agree with the request made to you, Mr President, for it to be brought forward, but I actually think that he will vote for himself a total motion of censure if he does not give it to us by himself.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u345	That is why I shall return to it in writing. I'd like to have a word with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u346	This is an outrageous arrogance! I know how many MPs...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u347	Colleagues...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u348	Mr President, I stand by it. There are a lot of colleagues asking for this and we will get no more than four snobby, arrogant words: we will come back to it. We want it now. Otherwise, we're gonna need that letter by 11:00 tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u349	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u350	You have to promise me this. You cannot send us as important opposition parties with a blink of an eye if we want information on the basis of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u351	Colleagues, we agreed that we would end this debate at 4 p.m. The Prime Minister said he'd come back to it in writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u352	I'll do that as soon as I can.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u353	As soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u354	That's what I'm gonna do.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u355	Prime Minister, may I have a word? A question has also been asked by Mrs Van der Plas. Maybe you could take it with you in the letter. The Prime Minister has indicated as soon as possible. That's just what we can do now. Mr. Wilders, if I could finish? On the basis of the letter, as a Chamber, we can still decide what we want with it. The Prime Minister said as soon as possible. I'm afraid that's what I have to do, looking...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u356	As soon as possible is also as soon as possible. I heard very well what the MPs are saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u357	Colleagues, we're supposed to meet at 4:00 p.m. I really get the information request there is. We're waiting for the Minister's letter. He said as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u358	That is really as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u359	On this basis, as a Chamber, we can see which follow-up actions are still needed. Finally, I would like to give the floor to Mr Klaver, who is the initiator of this debate. And then I really close the meeting, because the Prime Minister also has an important visit.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u360	As soon as possible is as soon as possible. I want this information by 6:00 tonight. We're closing now. The Prime Minister has to leave quickly. I fully understand that. I want that tonight at 6 p.m. because, depending on that, we should also be able to consider reopening the debate. But I hope that this is not necessary and that we just get the information we need, as it should be.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u361	Thank you. I'll direct this to the cabinet. That concludes this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u362	A motion of censure has been tabled. That's the motion in part No. 21. The request is to vote on it today. Let me look at my fellow Members to see if there is any objection. That is not the case. That makes it clear. We have a vote today. Then this motion will also be added. We'll be voting on the other motions next Tuesday. I shall close the sitting for a single moment and then we shall proceed to the two-minute debate on the Agriculture and Fisheries Council.
