ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-12.u1	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the speech by Ukrainian President Zelensky. The cabinet has just sent a letter indicating that tonight the Chamber will receive a summary letter on the state of affairs of sanctions and enforcement. Mr. Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-12.u2	Mr. Chairman. I have just consulted a number of colleagues, including those from the SP, the PvdA, D66, the VVD and the CDA, and I would like to propose that we now take up the debate with the Minister of Defence, that we give her the opportunity to conclude the questions that have been put to her, that we ask the Cabinet to have the letter announced before 6 p.m. tonight here at the Chamber, so that we can continue the debate with the Foreign Minister tonight, and that he will do the remaining part of the reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-12.u3	Thank you. There is a majority in favour of this request, so that is how we are going to do it. That means we now have a changement and start with the Secretary of Defense. I hear the Foreign Minister say something. Maybe you could say it in the microphone? I give you the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-12.u4	Mr. Chairman. We have indicated that we will bring that letter here tonight. I have just spoken to some of my colleagues in the cabinet. I asked them to provide that information to us by 6 p.m. at the latest. This means that we will certainly need another hour and a half to integrate it. So that letter won't be here until 8:00. I can't change that now either. It took a lot of time to get everyone. I am going to outline many of the things that have come along, but I also want to be realistic about what remains to be done in the next few hours. It just won't work in the next three hours.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-12.u5	What I propose is that we start now, as proposed by the majority of the Chamber, with the part of the Minister of Defence. Then we start the debate on the evacuation in Afghanistan. Then the answers come in, and then we pick up that debate, when the answers are there. So that's gonna be about 8:00. Yeah? I think we'll have a majority to do this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-12.u6	Mr. Chairman. I assume that the written questions I raised on this subject last week will then be answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-12.u7	I think you said that, and I think it's in the information request to the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-12.u8	We'll try.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-12.u9	Thank you. The cabinet does what it can in terms of information, but the signal from the Chamber is clear. I would like to thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs and give the floor to the Minister for Defence to answer the questions she has been asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-12.u10	Mr President, thank you. I just want to ask you a question about the order of things. Motions have also been tabled on behalf of the Foreign Minister. Is it the expectation of the Chamber that these motions will not be dealt with until tonight?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-12.u11	That is correct.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-12.u12	Otherwise, I'd do it, but it's perfectly clear. Good. Mr. Chairman. I would like to return to President Zelensky's speech this morning, which we have all listened to with great respect and great appreciation. I think we have all felt that the President, with his determination, is a symbol of the struggle that the Ukrainians are currently fighting. President Zelensky has also become, as a human being, the embodiment of the Ukrainian courage that we see. He inspires his fellow countrymen to continue to fight and to prevent the aggression caused by Putin from achieving its goal. He named something that, I think, arrived at all of us. He said, "The war's been going on for 36 days and, if we're not careful, the bombings are going to be routine right now." War must never get used to it. I think we all realized that this morning. The Dutch cabinet, the Prime Minister, of course has a lot of contact with President Zelensky, and we with our colleagues and other people in Ukraine. That's incredibly important. We are always sending out the message that we are not abandoning Ukraine, that the Ukrainians can continue to count on our support and that we are listening to them to understand exactly what they need and where we can help them. Mr President, I would also like to thank you for having a delegation from a cabinet here today. It is good to have this debate to repeat what we are doing. What we are doing is: maximum pressure on Russia, maximum support to Ukraine. And, of course, from NATO, we are doing what is necessary to guarantee the security of the allies. Mr. Chairman. I shall begin with the situation in Ukraine. How is the war developing? The situation is, of course, constantly evolving, but we can identify a number of things. Kiev, the capital of Ukraine, is just under Ukraine's control. That's incredibly important. We see that Russian units are suffering losses and the pace of the ground offensive has decreased. Gradually you see some static fronts. We also see that occasionally both Russian and Ukrainian forces book land profits, one way or the other. Grosso mode isn't changing that map very much. We have the claim of last Friday's Russian General Rutskoi. He said: the first phase of the war has been successful and actually completed. He said that Russia has managed to significantly reduce the impact of the Ukrainian armed forces. At least that's an incomplete picture. The focus of Russian forces seems to have shifted to the Donbas in recent days, but it is not yet possible for us to see that the Russian armed forces have actually reduced activities around Kiev and Chernivtsi. And that was the commitment of the Russian negotiations in Istanbul. It was the announcement made by Russia. So I'm skeptical. I'd much rather say it's a nice first step. I would like to say that there is reason for optimism. But I recall what we heard from the Russian side before the invasion, namely that there was only an exercise and that there would be no invasion. I therefore think that we should be able to see for ourselves that it is actually happening before we attach too much importance to it. I do not want to detract from the importance of the negotiations, I fully agree with what has just been said about them, but we do not yet see it. So, on Mrs Kamminga's question, whether it is a tipping point, I do not dare say yes at all. Of course, from the Defense Department, we monitor developments very well. If it is, we will signal it, and I will say so. We see that the shelling of Ukrainian cities continues. Then it's about Kiev, Chernihiv, Sumy, Charkov, Mykolajiv. It actually goes on all the time. The most horrible images are from Marioepol. There's the most difficult situation. There are actually no words to describe the humanitarian situation there by now. It's actually getting worse. Despite attempts to organise humanitarian security corridors, we can see that they have only limited success. Those were my answers to what has been asked and what I can say about the military situation and the war itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-12.u13	Before you continue, there is a question from Mrs. Agnes Mulder, CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-12.u14	I get the impression that all kinds of international aid organisations are not very visible there. Of course, they may not be allowed by both parties at all. How does the Minister view that? What can the Cabinet do to allow access to international aid organisations?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-12.u15	We can, of course, support the international organisations in this. We can make calls about that. Unfortunately, in the military sense, we cannot make any contribution to this, but we can continue to emphasise its importance in all the regions where it is at stake. These organisations, of course, have very relevant experience of how to reach people in war situations and provide humanitarian aid. But let us be honest: that is virtually impossible here in some places, and that is poignant.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-12.u16	I have an addition to Mr Mulder's question. I agree with the Minister and her observations. We may be a little out of the Minister's field, but it is, of course, a pressing issue. I would like to ask her what role the United Nations could play in ensuring such access. It seems to me that they certainly do not have a role there that is visible to us. You don't have to. I would urge the cabinet to continue to promote this option if necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-12.u17	I understand the question very well. I'd love to take him, too. I do not wish to venture a substantive answer now with the risk of giving a non-complete answer. I'll transfer the point and take it with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-12.u18	Since we will continue later this evening, I would also like to say on behalf of Mrs Mulder that it would be good to hear more about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-12.u19	Fine. I'll make sure of that. I come to the questions that have been asked about the help we can provide. We have, of course, heard the call from President Zelensky. We have heard them not only today, but also before and also in the contacts we have with the Ukrainians. It is clear what Zelensky is asking for, what Ukraine is asking for. We're trying to respond to that as best we can. I have heard the questions raised by Mrs Mulder, Mrs Kamminga, Mr Ceder, Mr Dassen and others. I am going to try to give answers, but the Chamber also knows that the cabinet decided rather soon after the invasion not to give any details in public about the nature of military support. The Chamber shall be informed confidentially. Then it's about the type of weapons systems and military goods we supply to Ukraine. We have made that decision ourselves. Many countries have decided to deal with it in this way, because it also entails operational risks if you do communicate about it in public. Moreover, we are not helping Ukraine if it is so clear, even for Russia, what is being delivered. I am very much aware that some countries make other considerations. By the way, that is perfectly understandable. I can say that Mr Van Dijk and others have previously informed us that we have already delivered more than EUR 50 million in military goods from our own stock. The counter's still running. In other words, we are still in the process of delivering. It is a footnote, but I would like to say for the sake of completeness that the sum of more than 50 million is about the book value of the items and not about the possible replacement value. I'm afraid it's all become a lot more expensive by now. That's irrelevant, but I don't want the Chamber to remember that. In other words, we deliver and, of course, we see if we can miss it. But we're trying to make a very critical assessment. If there's anything we can do, we'll deliver it. We sometimes ask for goods that we don't have in stock ourselves. We can buy them sometimes. That's also a route we're on. The third thing I want to say is that there is international consultation. We consult with our international partners to see what we can do more together. Then it's about logistics, but also about who can do what, how can we acquire it and how can we deliver it. That has now become a combination that works well in itself. That is important, because giving that help is crucial, just as President Zelensky indicated. Mr. Chairman. In this context, there were a few questions. I hope I've answered the questions about the weapons. Then I would like to move on to a number of other questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-12.u20	Another question from Mr Sjoerdsma of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-12.u21	Very briefly. I think President Zelensky didn't say for nothing that some parts are leading the support. I understand very well that the Minister says: we cannot go into what we deliver. The question that was asked was: send more, send more weapons. I think the Minister said it, but just to be safe. Is the Minister actually saying that the Netherlands will continue and send more weapons than it has already done?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-12.u22	The answer to that is yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-12.u23	Before you continue, there is an interruption by Mr Dassen van Volt. Because he's coming from a little bit further.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-12.u24	If I understood the minister correctly, 50 million in weapons have now been delivered. Does the cabinet have a direction for itself how much it ultimately wants to spend on that? There's clearly more to be asked for. The Minister just indicated that there could also be purchases. How's the cabinet looking at that? Of course, there is much more possible if there is a larger amount of money.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-12.u25	For us, the requests we get from Ukraine are leading. The question is whether we, the Netherlands, are able to respond to these requests. In other words, is it something we have and can transfer to Ukraine? Is it something we can buy or what we can get there in consultation with allies in a different way? For us, what we have available for this budget is not leading. It is true that, from the moment the European funds were deployed, we are also involving them in the financing of the goods.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-12.u26	It is good to hear that this is not leading, that there is more room for that and that the cabinet makes more room for that. Is there any consideration of how much space is being taken or is it not taken into account at all? Is what is delivered to Ukraine, ultimately a gift?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-12.u27	What is being delivered to Ukraine are indeed gifts. I think we included that in the letter of inquiry. We'll give it to Ukraine. Nothing's coming back. The only question we keep asking ourselves is: do we finance it ourselves and, if so, from what resources will it be paid, or is it something that fits within the criteria of the funds made available at European level? But of course that is administered neatly on the cabinet side. Those are the two ways to finance the donations of military equipment. Mr. Chairman. Mr Kuzu van Denk asked about the possibility of contributing to the protection of citizens in the event of air strikes. If I understand him correctly, it was mainly about protecting Ukrainian citizens from air strikes, so in Ukraine itself. That is a debate that has been held here more often. Of the requests that have been made earlier about setting up a no-fly zone, NATO has said that we cannot do that without becoming part of the conflict ourselves. This has potentially very far-reaching consequences. So you can't. Anything that leads NATO to become active in Ukraine can't, because then you become directly party. What can be done is to supply military goods that enable Ukraine to defend itself against them. So that is how we can contribute to protecting citizens. Then there were a few questions before I got through the lyrics. Mr Van der Staaij of the SGP said that, in addition to what we are doing to support Ukraine, we may also need to increase our own defence efforts. Of course, we support Ukraine. We'll do what NATO wants us to do. We are, of course, also thinking with NATO about what is sensible. We have taken steps at European level when it comes to defence and security. The cabinet is very aware of the fact that the Chamber has also asked for this. There's a Sjoerdsma motion. Following the Sjoerdsma motion, the cabinet said that we need to see whether we can take further steps on top of what was already made available from the coalition agreement at the beginning of this cabinet, namely 3 billion structural and 10.7 billion for this cabinet period. We think this is relevant. The motion that has been passed here, of course, we will work out. We will also come up with proposals. Of course, you can see this in other countries, particularly in Europe. And, not unimportantly, you can also see this with our neighbours, the Germans, who, of course, have taken a big step and are just going to do the 2% for NATO. So the answer is: yes, we also think that we should increase our defence efforts. We believe that this is not so much because we believe that this is now contributing to the war in Ukraine, but because we want, in the long term, to get defence in order within the framework of NATO and the European Union. Of course, that will take time, but it is very important to do it. Mr Sjoerdsma asked about the long-term commitment. That was also about NATO. That was actually about the defense and, in particular, the reinforcement of the east flank. We are of course active in this, but Mr Sjoerdsma is right that these are in principle temporary contributions for the time being. This is also how eFP was launched in Lithuania. We've been there for five years. For example, we now have a commitment for Bulgaria's airspace. That's basically temporary. F-35s are going to fly there for two months in cooperation with others. The Patriots in Slovakia are in principle also a temporary commitment. I think this is also good in principle, because it allows you to switch very quickly. We flew within one and a half hours of the invasion. Then the first F-35 went into the air. The commitments for Bulgaria and Slovakia have also gone quickly. The development is very soon, early April. You can still make agreements about how you want to stick with NATO after that, but the first step has been taken. NATO is also considering the long-term strategy. At various meetings of the Foreign Minister and the Minister of Defence, and ultimately at the NATO Summit, a decision will have to be taken on how we see this in the slightly longer term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-12.u28	I understand that, too. I would also like to say that, in a way, the deadline is also, if Slovakia had not indicated, for example, that it would be prepared to deliver reasonably advanced Russian S-300 systems to Ukraine if NATO were prepared to resolve that strategic gap in air defence in the longer term. Without prejudging all kinds of decision-making, my question to the cabinet would be whether the cabinet is in principle prepared not only to look at it in the short term, but also to put on the table the longer-term commitment, either from the Netherlands or with other allies, so that Ukraine can have access to material that can actually, with a little luck, make it very difficult for Russian aircraft to keep home there.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-12.u29	I think it is a very important point that Mr Sjoerdsma makes. I think it is also very important to say that NATO must have a plan, a strategy in its entirety. So the step that is now being taken by Germany and the Netherlands together to quickly develop these Patriot units is the first step. The second question that comes with this is: do you want to do so in the longer term, and how are we going to keep it up with each other? Then indeed, as allies, you must see how to secure that. If we, the Netherlands, can make a contribution to this, then that is certainly an option. However, we need to make a total balance as to whether the Netherlands can and should be able to do so or whether there are perhaps other allies who are going to step in there. Then, of course, it is up to Slovakia. I cannot decide for them what they do with their own equipment. Mr. Chairman. I hope that I have answered most of the questions in this way, and I have thus also done justice to the encouragement we received this morning from President Zelensky to continue to focus on what we can do. I was in Leeuwarden yesterday at a major NATO exercise. That's called Frisian Flag and these are flying exercises, where we practice together with a large number of partners. Then one of the kites said something about the different countries that were there with their planes. He said: it is very important that we do not only meet during a conflict, but that we practice together and that we know that we are ready for the effort. And then I thought, "Yeah, that's exactly what this is about." And I also think it is appropriate to express my thanks here to the military, who indeed, as I have just said, went into the air one and a half hours after the raid and all the others who are ready, day and night, to carry out their duties in the context of our security. Mr President, if you will allow me, I would like to say a few words about two motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-12.u30	Yes, if you'd like to give your appreciation, very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-12.u31	Sure. Those are the motions on pieces Nos. 50 and 51. The motion in part No. Mr Van Haga asked the government to pay tribute to Zelensky. Of course, we are happy to do so, and I think we have made that clear today. But he also says that we should support that neutral position. That's really going too far for the cabinet. There's a war going on and there's a negotiation process going on. But whether or not to renounce NATO membership, or its application, is really not up to us. It is not the issue and it is not up to us to judge it. So, for that reason, the cabinet is dissuading this motion. The second motion, in part No. 51 by Mr Van Haga, calls on the government to call on NATO members to avoid escalating language. I also attach this motion to a statement by Mr Van Haga in his first term. He found that the cabinet also engaged escalating language in relation to the war in Ukraine. The cabinet doesn't think so. That's why I really want to dissuade the motion. Of course, we want to see de-escalation, but we also want to be able to make a very clear statement on how we assess Russia's invasion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-12.u32	There is another question from Mr Jasper van Dijk of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-12.u33	It's a bit of an order point. I don't have those motions. When are we going to vote on that? Then I'll be able to take this review easy. I don't have any of them now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-12.u34	We're going to vote on it next Tuesday.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-12.u35	Then we've got a little time.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-12.u36	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-12.u37	Then I would like to thank the Minister of Defence for her presence and response. I assume that the Secretary of Defense will no longer have to attend the debate tonight, unless the Minister so wishes. I see that at least she has permission from the Chamber not to be present tonight.
