ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-tweedekamer-23.u1	The next item is the proposal for a law of Mr Nijboer, Mr Beckerman and Mr Bromet amending the Housing Act in order to prevent the number of social housing units in municipalities from falling as a result of performance agreements, Section 34974. I would like to welcome Mr Nijboer and Mrs Bromet to section K. Mrs. Beckerman can't be here tonight because of quarantine. But we know that it is following this debate from a distance. The initiators are supported in box K by Milo Gouvernante, Mustapha Eaisaouiyen and Jaap van der Heijden, members of the PvdA Group, the SP Group and the GroenLinks Group respectively. Of course, I would also like to welcome the Minister for Housing and Spatial Planning. He will act as advisor to the Chamber in the handling of this bill. It is always a special moment when MPs and employees exercise the right of initiative. Today is only the first term on the part of the Chamber. The continuation is planned, as usual, in consultation with the initiators.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-tweedekamer-23.u2	I would now like to give the floor to Mr Van Baarle of the DENK Group for his contribution to the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-tweedekamer-23.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, may I congratulate the authors of the bill warmly on the proposed bill? In this way, I would, of course, like to wish Mrs Beckerman well. Mr President, you have just mentioned the name of one of the staff members who are sitting here. I will not mention the name because it concerns an employee, but I know this employee from my time when I was spokesperson Wonen, in Rotterdam. It was someone who was very much involved in stopping the demolition of the Tweebos neighborhood. I also strongly opposed this in Rotterdam. I have to tell you, I'm touched that he's here right now. It touches me that even though he's been through such a difficult period, he's still here trying to bring the good. He does that despite the fact that the neighborhood was eventually demolished, which we opposed. I think it can be an example for many how one takes the strength from such a difficult situation to bring the good. Having experienced this subject in the Rotterdam Council itself, it bothers me very much to see him there. Mr. Chairman. The Tweebos neighborhood is hitting the core of this bill. The Tweebos neighborhood is, from what I've been through in my life, the most ugly example of social rental homes that needlessly disappear. It was a neighbourhood with social cohesion where people lived very well together, who had to disappear from neoliberal policy, gentrification drive. If we look at the social housing market at the moment, we can see that it has been completely locked up and compromised by that neoliberal policy. I am sorry that the VVD in particular is responsible for this. The Authority concludes now that the social housing market is completely locked. In the last ten years 236 social housing units have disappeared: a huge number. A huge number of social rentals have disappeared. We see the huge waiting times, in some municipalities of almost ten years old. We also see the depravable state of our social housing stock. 80,000 social housing units are reported to be in a deplorable maintenance state. A third of the people living in a social housing unit indicate that my home is poorly maintained. That has everything to do with policy, with neoliberal VVD policy. 31,000 social rental homes are simply leased to investors, to institutional investors. They were sold to the big money because it was purposeful policy. That's what you call in The Hague's jargon "complex selling of social housing." It was deliberate policy to make it easier to throw social housing over the bar in the direction of the big money. It has been deliberate policy of among others the VVD. We see tens of thousands of social rental homes have been demolished in recent times. Deliberate policy based on a gentrification urge, a gentrification urge to make a neighborhood look more like a baking district or a yuppie district. People who live there originally in a social housing unit should give way. I just mentioned the Tweebos neighborhood. That is the most illustrative example of that. Mr. Chairman. The landlord levy was sold as a crisis measure. That might be the biggest lie in politics ever. After the crisis, a crisis measure was simply well maintained by the VVD and the coalition. Of all the 2 billion euros that originally went to the landlord's tax, €0.26 per euro was used to increase the rent of people in a social housing. That was deliberate policy. But what did that do with the investment capacity? What did that do with the building capacity of housing corporations? These have been totally ruined by this crisis measure, which has simply been shamelessly maintained by coalition parties after the crisis. Mr. Chairman. Also non-regulating the middle rent... That's a dirty word every time from the neoliberal thought: regulating is dirty; you shouldn't do that. In the meantime, the prices rose through the roof in the middle rent. No, we should not regulate; that would be bad for investment capacity. Luckily, we're gonna do that now, but it's way too late. What is the consequence of this non-regulation? That people can't find an alternative. That's what's stopping the flow. That is also the result of this neoliberal policy. Mr. Chairman. For years, there has been no good definition of what "a social housing" is. Social housing is built with the agreement that if they move to another resident, they will disappear to the private sector. That's allowed for years. Okay, we're gonna work on it now, but it's been allowed for years. That has always been a point made in this Chamber. That is far too long allowed. So I can only come to the conclusion that the social sector is completely undressed by neoliberal policy of the VVD, supported by other parties. As a result of that policy, we have a shortage of social housing. That makes the DENK Group very positive about this bill. We also see it as a necessity to intervene. We must honestly admit that we found the Minister's response, the Minister's letter, to say the least, to be a little weak. I'm sorry we have to say that. There is not really a pre-advisation in the motion, but it seems to me that officials in the Ministry have mainly sought arguments against the law. Correct me if I'm wrong. One of the arguments put forward by the Minister to discourage this proposal is that we should not intervene in the cooperation between central and local authorities. But on the other hand, we have a minister who, when he was appointed, kind of said: we have to take that direction, we have to introduce direction. Wouldn't this bill be the perfect example of direction, I ask the Minister? You'll just agree that we're legally setting that as a standard. I think that was also a motion that was adopted in this Chamber, namely a motion that states that the social housing stock should not fall. That is what we said as a chamber, and it is embraced by the government. Then put it in the law; then you take that direction. That seems to me to be taking some kind of direction. I would like to receive a reflection from the Minister on this. But of course I am also very curious whether the proposers agree with me. They're going to answer, of course. Mr. Chairman. One of the answers given by the Minister in his letter is that there would be regulatory pressure. If I read the system of the law correctly, there is an exception. Then a letter is sent to the Ministry and for certain reasons there can be a deviation from the law. I think Aedes and the VNG have indicated that they can work with this law. I would therefore like a more detailed reflection of the Minister on these issues with regard to the regulatory burden. If you want an exception to that standard, send a letter to the Ministry. What does that add to line pressure? That's not so bad, is it? When authorities say they can work with this, isn't that not so bad? On this point, too, I would like to ask whether the proposers agree with me. Mr. Chairman. In his letter, the Minister also mentions the point of the local policy area as something to be against this law. Surely that local policy area will continue to exist if local authorities have the opportunity to ask for an exception? In the event of serious circumstances, this local policy area can therefore be well designed if the Minister grants that exception. In my view, the explanatory memorandum gives an example, namely shrinking areas. I ask the proposers what the situations they would consider to be in which such an exception could take place. Could they give more examples of this in order to give some more explanation? Mr. Chairman. To sum up, the DENK Group feels that the Minister's argument against this law is rather restrictive. On the most important elements, we do not fully understand what the arguments are based on. We see the crisis in the social housing market as a result of neo-liberal policy as such a serious circumstance that it seems to us to be a good thing to introduce that standard. That is why we are looking very positively at the legislative proposal before us. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-tweedekamer-23.u4	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Boswijk of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-tweedekamer-23.u5	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, thanks to the initiators and the employees. It is good that you have put so much energy into it, as the CDA believes with the proposers that the shortage of affordable homes is a huge problem. It is a shame that house seekers are registered in many municipalities for more than seven years before they even find a social housing. In some municipalities it is even longer: ten, twelve or even fifteen years. They're unreal waiting times. This has major social effects. Young people are forced to stay at home longer. People getting divorced can't go anymore. Seniors too often have to wait far too long for a suitable senior home. In short, it affects everyone. It is a matter of general interest that this is resolved as soon as possible. That is why I would like to express our sincere appreciation for the authors of this initiative proposal. Apart from what we consider to be content, I note that we are all looking for solutions to the current situation and that this initiative enriches the debate. But that also stops my positive words. Excuse me. We are dealing today with a legislative proposal which is already obsolete. It's been overtaken by reality. The initiative proposal is now four years old. The situation on the housing market has changed. The housing crisis has increased, but in recent years at least one trend has stopped: the decline in the number of social housing units. Let that be the basis of this initiative law. The key point of the law is, and I quote: 'With this bill, the proposers want to prevent the amount of social housing from falling due to the demolition, sale and liberalisation of such housing'. That is why I have a question for the proposers. Do they recognise that the decline in the number of social housing units has stopped? Do they agree with the Minister's observation that, on a national level, there is no reduction, but rather an increase in the number of social housing units to be expected? The Chamber recently adopted a motion from the SP against which only JA21 and Group Van Haga voted against. How do the initiators view the proposal in the light of this motion? What does this bill add? The Council of State did not propose to be able to assess precisely the problem for which the proposal is intended to provide a solution. Can the proposers respond to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-tweedekamer-23.u6	Before you continue, there is an interruption by Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-tweedekamer-23.u7	I would like to ask Mr Boswijk of the CDA: why does he think it was necessary for the SP motion to be tabled and adopted in order to ensure that the policy of the coalition agreement would not lead to less social housing?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-tweedekamer-23.u8	As Mrs Leijten knows, my group chairman Pieter Heerma has strongly advocated your motion, because we also see the importance of sufficiently affordable housing. It is not just about social rentals, but also about middle rentals. My first words were that I think we largely share the importance of social housing. We also share that there has been too little attention to social housing for too long. But we do not see that this law is going to contribute to solving the shortage of rental homes, quite the contrary. I will deal with this further in my contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-tweedekamer-23.u9	In my view, the proposers have not argued that their law will contribute to resolving the current deficit. Because of all the things behind the housing market, the number of affordable properties available has been demolished. This bill will stop the demolition. I asked Mr Boswijk, of course, why he thought that this motion by the SP was necessary and was tabled to ensure that the planned cabinet policy would not lead to a reduction in the number of social housing. If he doesn't give the answer, I'll give it to him, Mr. Chairman. Then I'll be as brief as I can, because I know how you always look at me. The system of the housing market is now that you're demolishing social housing and that you're always building fewer homes than you're demolishing them. That's been going on for decades. This cabinet's plans didn't stop it. This initiative law will do that. So let us fight together for more affordable and social housing, but let us also ensure that all kinds of agreements that are now being made for demolition do not lead to a net reduction. This bill is even better for that, or against it, than the motion passed. So I don't understand the resistance of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-tweedekamer-23.u10	I will go on in my speech in a moment as to why we believe that this bill is not going to contribute to this. At the same time, I would like to say once again that we are already seeing a turnaround. There has been a stop to the decline in the number of social housing units since 2018, I say for a moment. As far as we are concerned, this legislative proposal is no longer topical. We also see in the new coalition agreement a considerable number of measures that we, as CDA, have very strongly advocated in our electoral programme. For example, we are no longer talking about a 'dwelling market' in which we leave liberalism the free hand, but we are talking about 'people's housing'. We see it's a right to have a place. I recognize a lot of that in the coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-tweedekamer-23.u11	I would actually like to comment on the first line of Mr Boswijk's argument, but it is actually two-fold. He indicates that we have broken the trend and that the number of social housing units is expected to increase. That is the first line of argument. Two points on that. Firstly, if we now see for the first time that this is, in my view, the first year or perhaps the second year that we are seeing this, it is far too early to say that we have broken the trend. We've seen for one year that it doesn't take away. Then we can't conclude that that empirical evidence is that that trend has broken? Secondly, I have two points on the expectation that the number of social housing units will increase. The Authority's housing corporations and the Nieuwbouw Task Force Housing Corporations indicate that it is highly unrealistic to achieve the new building objective on social housing. In fact, we're probably only gonna get a third of that. So we hide behind estimates of what we're going to build, estimates that we're most likely not going to make. Then it's not very realistic to say: look, it's all hosanna now. So I can only conclude that Mr Boswijk's first line of argument does not really stand. I wonder if he agrees with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-tweedekamer-23.u12	No, because I was talking about 2018, so it's a trend that's been going on a little longer. Is it too slow? Oh, yeah. You may ask yourself whether we all, not only the social goals but also the 1 million homes we hear very often... I think it's good to have ambition. We need to bet on that. But just look very practically, for example, at the capacity of the municipalities alone in terms of officials to assess these applications. That's already problematic. Besides, there's nitrogen. That's a hell of a piece of shit, too. But what if you get all those permits? Then you have to find contractors, too. Then you come to the argument that you may indeed not achieve all the ambitions on social housing, but it will be a real challenge to get those quantities across the board. Then the question must be: is this law going to speed that up or get in the way? As CDA, we think the latter.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-tweedekamer-23.u13	Mr Boswijk does not refute the point. This law was indeed filed in 2018. The Minister's reaction now is that the trend seems to have broken because we have now experienced a year of social housing, a little bit. I say it's too early to say that the trend has broken. That does not contradict Mr Boswijk. Then there's those ambitions. Look, in Rotterdam we say: you don't know about ambition. So it's nice that we have an ambition together, but if we hear, just from the Authority housing corporations, that it's extremely unrealistic that that ambition is being achieved, then in theory we can still do so, so I think it's rather the practice that we're in the situation of adding far too little social housing. On the other hand, there is liberalisation and demolition. Then we still find ourselves in a situation where the number of social housing units can decrease. This law is just a fine stick behind the door to prevent that, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-tweedekamer-23.u14	I am going to explain it further in my speech in a moment. I believe that this law is not going to contribute to acceleration. We also believe that this trend has been reversed. Housing corporations have often disposed of social housing through financial issues. The cabinet is going to abolish the landlord's tax. As a CDA, we are very happy about that. We have been for the landlord tax once in recent years. That was in the spring deal. Then it was about 50 million euros. After that, we have always been against all the increases, which eventually amounted to EUR 2 billion. I think it is a trend break that we are now tackling this landlord tax in particular, so that housing companies can maintain their homes, become more sustainable and hopefully add new social housing in the short term as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-tweedekamer-23.u15	Finishing, Mr. Van Baarle.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-tweedekamer-23.u16	This is the last of it. Once again, Mr Boswijk does not take away my very legitimate points. He says: I believe that this law is not going to work. In Rotterdam we say: we can't eat opinions either. This also applies to the expectation of what the landlord's tax will yield. We don't know that at all. This minister still has to make performance agreements. We don't know what's actually going to come out of that yet. So Mr Boswijk actually comes up with a conclusion that a trend would have been broken, which is far too early to say that it has broken through, with expectations of which it is extremely uncertain whether we are going to make it and with an effect of the landlord levy that we do not even have yet. Then I would say: that is so uncertain that you almost have to be in favour of that law to get a little certainty.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-tweedekamer-23.u17	In Amsterdam we always say: you can't live in bullshit. So I fully endorse your point. I just don't see how this law is gonna get us to build more social housing. In fact, I think that makes it all much more complex. Aedes, the branch organisation of the housing corporations, says of course in her writing that this makes it even more complex. But I will make a number of further arguments in my speech as to why we are adding even more points and commas to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-tweedekamer-23.u18	There is an interruption by Mrs Kathmann first.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-tweedekamer-23.u19	Yes, please. My colleagues have already indicated that the aim of the law is not to speed up social housing. We are going to put forward a lot of fine proposals for that. As far as the supply is concerned, we're sinking through the bottom in a lot of places. It is precisely to ensure that we do not collectively sink through that soil. Mr Boswijk starts with a wonderful speech in which he describes the pain that many people feel in that housing crisis. Then I wonder where he gets it from at all that we are in a trend that the social stock is no longer falling. Where did those numbers come from? Because if you just add the numbers together, the population has grown, the number of people who claim a social housing has grown and the number of homes is not. So then we're not in a positive trend at all? So if he really wants to do something about that pain, I would just like to support this initiative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-tweedekamer-23.u20	The number of social rentals sec has increased by 10,000, I say memorized. The share in total may not be, because more house seekers have joined and more homes have been added in total. But once again, as a CDA, we believe that a lot more social housing needs to be built. That's what this coalition is going through. There are a number of obstacles which have seriously hampered housing in its overall understanding, not just socially. We have seen that we have given too much freedom to the market and we have left it too little to the government. As a coalition, we are taking a number of measures. I have a lot of faith in that. I don't see how this law is going to contribute to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-tweedekamer-23.u21	Once again, I would like to ask Mr Boswijk just to talk about this initiative law. Because he is now bringing the whole housing market problem into the equation, which is also very pleasant, but this initiative law simply says: let's not go down that soil collectively; let's just standardize the number to a minimum that we can't go under with all of us, because that housing crisis is already hard on. So the question is simply: would Mr Boswijk sec like to look at this initiative law, which is going to regulate it, and not bring up everything about accelerations and you name it? Because that is not what this initiative law is for.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-tweedekamer-23.u22	I'd love to talk about the initiative proposal when we stop interrupting. So I'm moving on now. Mr. Chairman. The municipal elections are on their way. An important theme of these elections is housing. In almost all Dutch municipalities there is a shortage of social housing; in Amsterdam but also in the Achterhoek. In each municipality, local politicians come up with plans to reduce these deficits. Municipalities have an important directing function in the housing of the people. It is the municipalities, corporations and tenant organisations who are familiar with the local situation, who know which types of housing the social housing stock should consist of and what the desired distribution is between neighbourhoods and neighbourhoods. Local performance agreements are made about this. This legislative proposal breaks this process for no good reason. By setting a general standard, the initiative proposal deprives a lot of local policy space. This basically amounts to a motion of censure towards local politicians, especially when they are so hard at dealing with the housing shortage. According to the CDA, the municipality is precisely the starting point for resolving the housing shortage. Its own municipality is the primary responsibility for the spatial design of the immediate living and living environment of its inhabitants. Once problems exceed that locality, involvement of the province and the government is needed. The municipality has its own government and elected representatives. People are accountable there and elections take place every year. On the contrary, municipalities must be given more and not less freedom from the province and from the Empire to deal with the housing shortage. At local level, homes should be planned and built, taking into account local challenges and opportunities. Do the proposers agree with me that the stakeholders in the region know best what the desired housing composition is for the specific region? What reason do the proposers have for doubting the local performance agreements, especially as the social housing stock is increasing again? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. There are a number of points of criticism. The Council of State does not consider the bill to be lenient. The Section considers that the proposal is not likely to meet the real bottlenecks in the housing market and to provide a meaningful and useful solution. Not the number of social housing units is the problem, but the lack of flow in the housing market. Do the initiators share this observation? Do they agree with me that the solution to the problem should be sought elsewhere? Mr. Chairman. Last week, my colleague Geurts presented a living vision on behalf of the CDA. It contains a number of proposals that will help to re-launch the flow. So we take the housing corporations off the chain and give them all the space to build affordable, especially for the middle class, and modernise the rental and income limits for housing corporations. We want to rebuild the housing corporations as real social enterprises that are in demand. What do the initiators of the CDA's proposal that corporations should also be built for the middle rent? How do they feel about abolishing the market test for corporations, coming up with a new definition of social rent to keep social rents within the social segment for a long time, and making performance agreements with housing corporations in exchange for abolishing the landlord's tax? They are all practical measures to put the housing corporations back into their power. The proposal of the proposers of this initiative law is correct in reciting the reins.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-tweedekamer-23.u23	You will find the VVD at your side if you say you need to build it. I'm going to say a little more about that later, but you know that from the VVD. Your proposal here is to allow corporations to build much more in the middle segment, while today it is also about: how do we ensure the social housing stock in a good way and how do we increase it? We all know what causes the problems in the construction sector when it comes to labour. Then how does the CDA intend to get this feasible and ensure that at least the social housing stock will increase with what we need in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-tweedekamer-23.u24	I think corporations really want to build social housing. That's what I've seen in my working life. But sometimes it is very practical, also for the viability of a district, to build a bit wider, including for example the middle rent, which is perhaps even more short. If we are very dogmatic and say "no, housing corporation, you can only focus on the social rent," that is practically not useful, because you want a little diversity in the streets of course. It is also not good for the viability. Hence the CDA wants to build for several target groups, also because we see that there is a very large gap in the middle segment rental. This also prevents the flow from "social" again.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-tweedekamer-23.u25	I do not disagree with the story of Mr Boswijk of the CDA, but I do encounter some practical objections. How do we get this done? I'll make the question a little sharper. If we have to choose between 100 social housing or 80 social housing and 20 in the middle rental segment, what should we go for? Do we go for the 100 first and look at the middle rent later? We just need the hands to realize the ambitions. That's what my question is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-tweedekamer-23.u26	Yeah, if you're gonna reason it like that, you're really gonna reason it out of an Excelsheet. I think you should look at the demand in the villages and the cities. You shouldn't say, "Oh, man, we can pull 100 houses out of the closet now." No, you're gonna look like this. This is a village or town where there is a need for flow. We have people in social rental homes who really want to go on to middle rent and we have people who love to go to social housing. Then you have to look at the needs of society. That's what you need to build for. In recent years, we have made the mistake of looking at the needs of the market and having built it. But the need of the market is not always the same as the need of society. That is why the CDA's call for this responsibility to be placed as locally as possible. Our antipathy against this law is a little bit that we then take the role of local democracy out of play, which knows very well what the need is, especially if you allow it to work with housing corporations, who also have the financial leverage by abolishing the landlord's tax. That's how we look at it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-tweedekamer-23.u27	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-tweedekamer-23.u28	On top of that, the PvdA and GroenLinks want to introduce a new hidden landlord tax, which means that the corporations have lost another 1 billion in four years to the State. We find that incomprehensible, so I would like to have a reaction to that. Finally, Mr President. Last week, the Minister gave an appreciation of the initiative proposal. Among other things, the Minister states, I quote: 'I am concerned that the proposed general standard in the initiative proposal will not delay the desired new construction'. My group shares this concern. The complex and time-consuming nature of procedures is one of the causes of the housing shortage. We've been trying to streamline this for years. On the contrary, this proposal increases complexity. Do the initiators share the concern that the number of exceptions will be many times higher than those outlined in the explanatory memorandum? Do they also see the risk that there will be a great deal of paperwork involving exceptions, without it effectively serving the purpose of achieving more social housing in the places where they are really needed? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-tweedekamer-23.u29	Thank you. There is still an interruption by Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-tweedekamer-23.u30	I can't really understand what the CDA stands for anymore. It is not so long ago that at the time the chairman of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats) said: 'It is no longer about the housing market, but about housing. The direction must be taken back. We have deregulated too much, so we are now in a huge housing crisis." Now the CDA says, "No, you don't. National direction of the government? That's distrust of local directors." I don't really understand anymore. I've been listening to it to find out what logic is still in it, but I think there's a big difference between the CDA from before the election and the CDA from after the election, when a CDA executive is on that post. I think that's a little weird.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-tweedekamer-23.u31	Then I'm glad I can explain. As a CDA, we are genuinely in favour of the principle of subsidiarity, thus organising as locally as possible and scaling it up to national level. We are very happy that there is a Minister for Housing who keeps an overview of all new buildings and housing in its entirety, so when it jumps out of the band. But we do think that I have just said that you should lay down that responsibility as locally as possible, because you know locally what the needs are.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-tweedekamer-23.u32	Then there is a local government that says, "We have a whole neighborhood here that is made up of social housing. We're gonna tear this whole neighborhood down and we're not gonna build anything back." There is a need for that, but the city council is deaf or not listening. What does the CDA do? So the CDA says, "Okay, then, break it down"?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-tweedekamer-23.u33	I can't imagine that there is a city council that is majority... I'll take a look at the local CDA directors, but also at your party's, at that of GroenLinks and at that of the PvdA. They know very well what the need is. But let's say that a majority council decides to do something that we, as a society, all say: this is not entirely the intention. Then I think it is a role for the Minister to intervene. Just, I think it's a bad way to make legislation on exceptions or possible excesses. We need to give a piece of confidence to the capable local drivers who are there. There really are, and I have a lot of faith in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-tweedekamer-23.u34	Finalizing, Mrs. Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-tweedekamer-23.u35	Shoot me! Shoot me! Shoot me! We very often adopt laws here that are precisely the ones that have to curb or tackle excesses. Criminal law is a great example of this. Not everyone is a burglar and yet we have good penalties for burglars, in case they do. So that reasoning really doesn't apply. I would like an answer from Mr Boswijk. What if, let's say, 15,000 rental homes disappear in a municipality that clearly needs those 15,000 social rental homes until 2030? Then it makes sense for the national government to say: go ahead with the local direction, but it should never be any less so at this time of the housing crisis? That is what this bill says. That's not the overruling of local authority, is it? That's just putting a bottom in it. What does Mr Boswijk say? What is the CDA going to do in case there is a municipality that says: in our residential vision until 2030, it is fine if 15,000 social rental homes, which is needed, disappear? What do you do? Nothing?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-tweedekamer-23.u36	A good example of an excess that we, as a Chamber and politically afterwards, have gone too far on is the fraud that we saw ten years ago in the housing corporations. In doing so, we immediately put the housing corporations on hold. Again, I don't get those excesses right, but I think that has partly resulted in us now having too few social rentals. So it's not always good to focus on excesses. Suppose there's a city council that says, "Oh, man, we're gonna take out 15,000 social housing." I can't imagine there's capable local drivers saying that, but suppose they're there. Then for us as CDA that is a reason to take national direction, but you only do that in exceptional cases. You're not going to do that by default, because then you're going to cycle through all those local processes. I really believe that 99% of these processes are going well and I have real confidence in local politics and the local leaders who make agreements with their housing corporations. If we're going to focus all the way on the doom scenario "if a municipality is going to demolish 15,000 homes and we have this law for it," then maybe those 15,000 are saved. You just have to see if it ever happens. But with this we slow down and make it more complex for all other well-meaning and capable local administrators and local politicians that we can vote for again on 16 March. We, as CDA, simply have faith in that. You may be in a different position, but we don't see that this law is going to contribute anything to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-tweedekamer-23.u37	Then really rounding up, Mrs. Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-tweedekamer-23.u38	With me, it doesn't inspire confidence that I won't get an answer to my question. This is not about trust in local democracy. This is about a soil in the housing stock in the Netherlands, which has already fallen by its hoofs: if new plans are made in a municipality, then the net result is never less social housing. I do not get an answer to the question of what the CDA will do if those 15,000 disappear until 2030. Actually, the answer is nothing. I think that's sad, because you'll be empty-handed. If this bill is passed, you're in full hands and you can do something.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-tweedekamer-23.u39	Finally, Mr Boswijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-tweedekamer-23.u40	Again, we have a great deal of confidence in the local administrators. They are capable people who have an eye for the viability of their village and city. We've got a big job to do. We need to build social housing, and we're gonna build social housing. However, we do not see that this law is going to contribute to this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-tweedekamer-23.u41	Thank you. Mrs Leijten will then speak on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-tweedekamer-23.u42	Mr. Chairman. Tomorrow, the Chamber will talk about its own manners. It is always about the Parliamentary Chamber, which is used for words games and videos. That is not a very good side of our Parliament. A nice side of our Parliament are MPs who take up the job if the government does not do what it is told, because that is how this bill was born. Motions being tabled, initiatives being taken, the government that is deaf as nails. The housing market, the housing that falls through its hooves, people who are endlessly on a waiting list. And what do MPs do, too, and much more often than crazy, which actually gets too much attention? Yeah, we all agree on that. They're gonna make initiative laws. So compliments to the groups of the Labour Party, the SP and GroenLinks and of course their support. And I'm really sorry it's necessary. With the bill, the proposers ask for the following arrangements to be made at the time when municipal agreements are made between housing corporations on the one hand, tenant organisations on the other hand and a municipality on the other. It's called "performance agreements," because everything always has to be jargon. The moment you make such an appointment about your city, about your municipality, about your region, the net result should not be that there are fewer social rentals. When I was preparing this bill, I actually thought: will that happen? Because I also have a great deal of faith in those local administrators. They're not gonna demolish in times of housing shortage and real shortages of affordable homes, are they? We hear everyone say it: for starters, for people who are just in front of the classroom, who are teachers, but also for the elderly, who also want to live affordable. There's a shortage of everything. Then you're not gonna tear it down, are you? Yeah, that's what's happening. So that's the cynical thing: that you need that national direction because it doesn't work locally. The number of social rentals, also called the affordable rent, decreased from 210,000 rentals per year in 2015 to less than 180,000 last year. That is a significant decline, and then it's just about corporate housing, so what the corporations are building together. Then it is not about private social rent, which still exists. The House Union therefore calls this bill necessary. Does the Minister agree with the House Union? During the discussion in this Chamber of the coalition agreement, the debate on the declaration of government, the Marijnissen motion was adopted which says: Cabinet policy must not lead to a reduction in the number of social housing. Does the Minister acknowledge that this bill is a necessary support for that motion? That is what this bill says in the end. Of course, this bill doesn't say: we have to build there and more there. That's what we all want. That's what needs to be done. I see a lot of Rotterdamers here tonight, but in my surroundings, the northern edge of the Randstad, I see social and affordable buying houses from........................................................................................................................................................................................... I'm sorry, but who can afford that? The proposers may know it and otherwise the Minister, but I do not call that an affordable place to live. What do you see in these residential areas? That's where rent is pushed out, because if you can sell that expensive, you're pretty crazy as a developer if you're gonna put cheaper properties in there. 'Cause then, yeah, your winnings are gonna blow, right? It's nice to have residential visions made, nice to have local directors look at them, nice to have the market regulate that, but if we don't regulate and regulate that there is just construction and that when people with ordinary wallets are demolished, it doesn't happen. I was just talking about a municipality that thinks it is a good idea that in the housing vision there will be 15,000 less social housing in 2030. Is that a bad town? I don't know. Is that a congregation that many people in this room know? Yes, because it is Rotterdam, and I have counted a lot of Rotterdammers here in this room. Among other things, Mr Van Baarle did not want to mention his name, but I did fight Mr Eaisaouiyen against the demolition of the Tweebos district. There were good rentals there. People liked living there. There was social cohesion in the neighborhood. But Rotterdam said: "No, we just want fewer welfare workers. We push them out of town, because they live there, right?" Well, if that's true, I don't know, but that Rotterdam law and the living vision that's in there aren't gone. The current housing vision in Rotterdam will lead to 15,000 fewer social rental homes in 2030. So it's not something of the past. The four largest tenant organisations, which must therefore be part of that housing vision, of those "performance agreements', have not signed the latest version. Even the housing corporations in the Rijnmond region have now indicated that they do not agree with the latest plans. There you are with your living vision, with your performance agreements: no one agrees, but you can't intervene legally either. And yet the number of social rentals in such a municipality is going to rot! And then there's warriors from the Tweebos neighborhood. Mr Eaisaouiyen is behind the minister, but the minister could certainly have met him in the past, when he was still alderman in the municipality of Rotterdam and perhaps came to the same school as Mustapha. His house has been demolished. He was allowed to leave for the rich. That's what happened. Mr Eaisaouiyen recently gave an interview in which he says he is working here now. That's special, too. That's what Mr Van Baarle said. Then he also said: I hope one day I will make it Minister for Housing. Then, if it is up to the SP, he has at least this law, which states that performance agreements in a municipality should never lead to fewer homes. Mr. Chairman. Living is a right and not a earning model. It's been very worrying that so many people have to wait so long. In the municipalities of Landsmeer, Wormerland, Haarlemmermeer, Diemen and Amstelveen you are on the waiting list for more than seventeen years. What could happen in 17 years! Think back to 17 years ago, and in the meantime, my God, you could have waited for a home! Or look at Oosterhout, Kampen, Noorderveld or Heeze-Leende. There you have to wait longer than eight years. Of course, we often talk about the big cities, but the SP notes that just outside the Randstad people have to wait the longest. It is said that everything will be fine with the housing visions and that there is confidence that the local is going well. Yeah. I think the SP thinks it's good we're gonna do this. I would like to comment on what the Minister says about it. The Minister has an appreciation of the contribution of the CDA Group to this bill. He says: it is no longer necessary, there is more social housing. But the Authority's housing corporations aren't that optimistic. They say that there are plans to build new homes, but that this will still not be enough. There are more singles and the group of people who want to live in a social housing unit is growing. The Minister writes in his assessment of this bill that the decline has stopped, but the study report of the Authority housing corporations shows that the number of social housing units for the very lowest incomes has fallen significantly in recent years. In 2019 and 2020, more than 50,000 homes were fewer for the lowest incomes. In total housing stock, the percentage fell from over 29% to over 27%. Those are only figures, but last Sunday the television programme Pointer showed very clearly that this is about people. A mother said in tears that she felt that she failed after the divorce of her husband, because there was no home and because she had to live with her children in a campsite. She has to wait on the waiting list and wait for status holders and people who may have aged. There are a lot of people on the waiting list who feel like they're failing. They can't participate and they can't exercise the right to a home. The minister says to them, "Wait a minute, I'm not doing anything." I'm actually very sad that you have such a minister. That is why I congratulate the authors, for they do not say that. In any case, they say that what is now is not acceptable. That's what the House of Representatives said. With the adoption of the Marijnis motion, it has been said that what is now must not be reduced. Even the VVD voted for that! Really, that was for us quite a revolution in housing and housing debates. That is why I find it so crazy to have to deal with a minister who says that I do not need that law in a debate that actually puts the ruling of the motion into a law. I assume that, when we get the answer in the first term of the proposers, the Minister has also amended his assessment of this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-tweedekamer-23.u43	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Boulakjar, who will speak on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-tweedekamer-23.u44	Mr President, thank you. First of all, a word from my side to the initiators for their commitment and the time they have spent in the present proposal. I would also like to congratulate their colleagues, and in particular Mr Eaisaouiyen, of course. Initiative legislation is a complicated and time-consuming process. It's always nice to see MPs in box K. I hope I'm gonna be able to sit there soon. Mr. Chairman. My group shares the concern that the initiators have about people who have to wait too long for an affordable home. Everyone knows people in their own environment who have to wait a long time for a social rental house, a middle rental house or an affordable buying house. The aim of the proposal is to maintain the share of social housing in the Netherlands. That is a good goal, a goal that the D66 Group also pursues. Everyone must be able to live in an affordable home. Since the filing of this law in 2018, quite something has happened in the area of housing. I do not deny that the housing market is still overwhelmed, but a number of significant steps have been taken to make a nice home more accessible to everyone. There is now a strong coalition agreement that addresses the challenges of housing. D66 has negotiated firmly and, together with the VVD, the CDA and the Christian Union, presented a package with which we will have to work in the coming years. The aim of the package is to address the complex housing market problem. It is precisely because of this complexity that a dedicated Minister for Housing has been appointed, who is allowed to go to jail, for example. In order to ensure sufficient housing to address the shortage, the Minister was instructed to realise 100,000 homes per year. Of these, two thirds must be achieved in the affordable segment, so that those for whom the housing shortage is highest are helped. Housing corporations have long had too little air and space to build up social housing. It has therefore been agreed that the unholy landlord's tax on social housing will finally disappear, in exchange for which performance agreements must be made to ensure that the money is used to rebuild and make it more sustainable. To increase the stock of middle rentals, the market test for housing corporations is suspended, so that the flow starts and the waiting lists get shorter again. We also recently, of course, supported the Socialist Party's motion to stop the decline in the total stock of social housing. Mr. Chairman. I would also like to say a few words about livingability, because it is not just about numbers, the increase and decrease in social housing, but also about the quality of these housing. A suitable, well-insulated home in a liveable district is just as important in terms of D66, especially at a time of high energy prices. It is precisely for this reason that we have allocated 150 million a year to increase the quality of life in neighbourhoods for people. Mr. Chairman. I also have a number of questions for the initiators. Why did the own-initiative legislation remain silent for two years after the report from the Court of Justice? It's not a reproach, it's just an informative question. Have the MPs in box K made another inventory after 2018 of the parties that responded to the internet consultation, to hear how they respond to the proposal in the light of the current state of affairs? How do the initiators assess all the measures mentioned in the coalition agreement in the light of their proposal and what added value does the legislative proposal have for the measures announced? Do they agree with D66 that the intention of the proposal, which is a good intention, has already been triggered by the measures contained in the coalition agreement? And with the recently adopted motion of the SP to keep the number of social housing units net, is the wish of the proposal not already covered? This law provides that the share of social housing does not decrease from a corporation. D66 is convinced that the abolition of the landlord's levy and the suspension of the market test will actually significantly increase the share of housing corporations. This is also due to the high demand for social housing in the coming years. For D66 it is important that local choices can be made by popular representatives, corporations but also residents themselves. Building more rural direction is good but the layout of the neighbourhoods and the offer of the homes should be in line with the needs and needs of the neighbourhood. When living conditions are under pressure, neighbourhoods must be socially and physically refurbished. If people are stuck in social rents, there must be more offer of middle rents to promote the flow. D66 has every confidence in local representatives, directors of housing corporations and tenant associations who make agreements on this matter every year. Therefore, allow them the freedom to deliver customized work, depending on the local situation per municipality. Therefore, a number of questions to the initiators. Why do the initiators choose to set up a national rule that makes customization more difficult per municipality? Do they not take away from them the possibility of creating locally appropriate policies and appropriate offerings? What is the reason for the proposers not to leave this in local democracy? How do they respond to the comment of the Council of State, which comments on this proposal as "involvement in the decentralised system"? How do the initiators assess the concerns and criticisms from the VNG, the Association of Dutch Municipalities, and the Aedes dome? Mr. Chairman. I also have a number of questions for the Minister, because he is here now. How does the Minister see the supply of social housing developing in the coming years? What can and will the Minister do to ensure that there is no reduction in the supply of social housing and that waiting lists are shortened? Does the Minister need this law of the initiators as a stick behind the door? Mr President, concluding. The Council of State has reservations about the proposal and states that the middle rental sector in the Netherlands is lagging behind. D66 agrees and therefore invites the initiators to work with D66 on a balanced supply in the coming year, appropriate to local demand. In addition to social rent, there is also a need to look at middle rent, with a view to flowing through and sufficient social housing. We call on the Minister to make firm agreements on this subject in the national performance agreements with the corporations. More middle rent is more flowing. This leads to more space in the social rental sector. Finally, Mr President, I would like to thank you once again. I look forward to the answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-tweedekamer-23.u45	There is another interruption by Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-tweedekamer-23.u46	I would like to ask Mr Boulakjar of D66: does a motion have more power than a law, or is it the other way around?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-tweedekamer-23.u47	Mrs Leijten is a Member of Parliament for 20 years and I am only nine months, so she will know that much better than I do. A law doesn't go directly, a motion might be much faster. The law was written in 2018. In the light of the current state of affairs, this law may not be necessary. I believe that the Marijnissen motion, which was adopted a few weeks ago, will have more effect than this legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-tweedekamer-23.u48	I'm walking around here for quite some time, at least we're walking around in this building for about 20 years but fortunately not yet. Anyway...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-tweedekamer-23.u49	Excuse me, excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-tweedekamer-23.u50	A law that is superfluous is no longer necessary, although it has cost a great deal of work. A motion that is necessary and a law that is not necessary do not go together. A motion does not have the force of law. A motion cannot be carried out; it is an intention. You can't break a law. If Mr Boulakjar of D66 says that this bill is no longer necessary, because it no longer exists or has been overtaken by the motion, then I would recommend that D66 vote in favour of the bill. You don't have to burn your hands on that. The bill is never necessary, but we have arranged that it should not be possible for a municipality to draw up a plan that reduces the number of social housing instead of remaining the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-tweedekamer-23.u51	I think SP and D66 agree. There should be more social housing or that number should at least remain the same. We agree on that. D66's objection is that this law affects local democracy. This law says, from The Hague: in this neighborhood there will have to be so many social rentals and so many middle rentals. That is where we differ. We have local democracy high. Mrs Marijnissen's motion, which was adopted recently, says that there should be no less social housing in the Netherlands. We agree with that. We have therefore wholeheartedly supported this motion. But if you regulate by law how many social rentals there are to be per street, per neighborhood, per municipality or per village, then you sort of put local democracy out of play. The intention may be a different one, but that is where we differ greatly.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-tweedekamer-23.u52	Here we are resonating again what the Minister said in his opinion, and I sincerely regret that. What if one city says it's going to demolish 15,000 rentals until 2030? If you follow the Marijnissen motion, that means that another municipality will be obliged to rebuild them. This is also an intervention in local democracy, because then the national government would have to point out that the neighbouring municipality would have to build it. That's also an intervention in that. If you think through this, then you shouldn't be in favour of the Marijnissen motion either. This, of course, says: "Fine, make local appointments. See what it takes in neighborhoods and neighborhoods. But we make one appointment; it will not be less social rentals." That's a bottom in how we deal with each other. I think that is very sensible and that is exactly what the motion says. We can now ensure that the motion is adopted not only in intent, but also in the law later on. I don't actually see a motion getting into a law any faster, but well, that might be my limited experience.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-tweedekamer-23.u53	Mrs Leijten is now trying to convince me of her right. That's her right, but I'm sticking to my previous answer. She also had an interruption earlier with Mr Boswijk. I just can't imagine a municipality saying, "We're going to strictly demolish 15,000 social housing units." The Chamber won't accept that either. The Minister also has the possibility of a designation decision. If a municipality deals too grimly with its policy freedom... Those municipal councils include D66'ers, SP'ers, people from GroenLinks and CDA'ers. He's not here today, but there are no Van Hagas on those city councils. So I'm not worried about that. If things really get out of hand in a certain municipality, then I cannot imagine that this Chamber and this minister, with his powers, will not intervene.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-tweedekamer-23.u54	Thank you. I give the floor to Mr Kops of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-tweedekamer-23.u55	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, thanks to the initiators for their law: the Law on Affordable Housing. I think that we can all agree very quickly that there should be, are and remain sufficient affordable housing. The housing market is still one big, dull mess. If you're looking for a home, you can forget about it nowadays, because we're running out of 300,000 homes and the houses that are still available are often priceless for an average family, a typical family. On the market and the rental market: it's a mess everywhere. With that, an affordable roof over your head is no longer self-evident. We can therefore quite rightly say that the housing shortage has become a housing crisis. The crazy thing is that despite the huge housing shortage, the new construction of social housing has not increased over the years, but has declined dramatically. In 2013, nearly 30,000 houses were built, but in 2020 only 15,000. In fact, between 2013 and 2019, the total number of social housing units decreased by as much as 150,000. An analysis of the Housing Association some time ago concluded that the social housing stock has shrunk. Together with the enormous increase in rents in the social sector, this led to this conclusion of the Housing Association: the tenant is downright bad at Rutte and the VVD. And so it is. The waiting times in the social sector have therefore increased enormously in recent years. In at least a quarter of all municipalities you are on the waiting list for more than seven years. There are even outliers to fifteen or seventeen years waiting. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the initiative bill. Thus, the initiators want to prevent the total amount of social housing from falling further through demolition, sales and liberalisation. Simply put, if rental homes disappear from the social sector, then new ones must also come back for them. It is about maintaining the total number of social housing. Under this law, social housing may not be sold, demolished or liberalised until at least a new property is returned. Then the question is: how does it work in practice? What kind of place does it have to come back for? Should this new house be comparable to the old one, for example in terms of area or number of rooms? I ask this because building a social housing unit is becoming more expensive every year, despite the fact that the average area of a new home is decreasing every year. Due to rising material costs, higher land costs, but also sustainability, it all becomes more and more expensive to build that property. So the question is: how is it in practice prevented from disappearing relatively spacious houses and coming back smaller and smaller? I'd like a response. In writing, the PVV has already asked about homes whose demolition is insurmountable because of the poor condition in which the houses are located. The initiators then answer: for these houses can be thought of renovation. But then the question is: what if renovation is no longer possible in practice? Are such dwellings not maintained purely to prevent the total number of social housing from falling? And doesn't depravity occur? Isn't there a chance of decay? Isn't there a kind of standstill, in which, although there are no houses disappearing from stock, there are no new ones and there are no better ones? After all, the purpose of the law is only to maintain the housing stock. Mr. Chairman. The law allows the Minister to exclude housing corporations at their request from this main rule, thus allowing them to reduce the number of social housing units. What do the initiators expect from this? How often will this happen in practice? We all know that in recent years there has been absolutely no direction from the Empire on the housing market. The housing market is completely left to its own devices. How, then, do the initiators expect the Minister, who is not at all positive about this law, to deal with this exception and at all with this law? After all, the Minister has already indicated that this law entails even more complexity in the housing market. What do the initiators actually think of that? Mr. Chairman. Then there are the priority arrangements. It is sad, unfortunate, that the initiators remain silent about this in all keys. The Dutch are on the waiting list for years. I have just said: at least seven years, with outliers to 15 or 17 years. That's an incredibly long time. Imagine being on a waiting list for 17 years for a home, for a roof over your head, while status holders still get massive priority. Ensuring sufficient social housing and getting rid of these huge waiting lists is of course fine, but if these homes are then given away with priority to status holders, the Dutch of course do nothing about it; quite the contrary. As of 1 January 2010, for example, more than 125,000 social rental homes have been allocated to status holders. And the Dutch are waiting. What do the initiators think of that? Why don't they do something about it with this bill? Mr. Chairman. The bill therefore prevents the number of social housing from falling. Okay, but at the same time stop giving priority to the remaining homes to status holders. Let them benefit the Dutch who have been on the waiting list for years. Therefore, it is also high time for the PVV's own initiative proposal, the Law excepting priority licence holders, which we will hopefully deal with in the near future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-tweedekamer-23.u56	Thank you. I call Mr Grinwis of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-tweedekamer-23.u57	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I would also like to congratulate the proposers and their policy staff on the proposal to prevent the number of social housing units in municipalities from falling as a result of performance agreements with housing corporations. Through the proposal, I see from the authors that they have an eye for people who are unable to pay an exorbitant rent in the free sector, but who may still have to be on a waiting list for social housing for years to come. I therefore commend the authors for the aim they want to achieve: not to let the social stock fall in the years to come. However, I do feel that the initiative law is gradually checking in at a crossing station four years after submission. After all, this cabinet is completely different from the previous one. Don't the proposers see that? Where the initiative proposal was still understandable in 2018, it seems to be a bit out of date. The previous cabinet was still as good and as angry as it went the damage to repair four years Block; this cabinet has a housing agenda that sounds like a clock. It is not for nothing that the coalition agreement aims to make two thirds of the houses to be built affordable, in line with the expected needs as examined by the ABF agency. According to them, 83 000 homes per year are needed, of which more than 28%, or 23,700, social housing. 6.5% corresponds to 5,400 middle rentals. 34% are 28,000 cheap properties. This means that up to 2030 there will have to be no less than 200,000 social rental homes. My question to the Minister is: does he share this analysis of ABF? Is that consistent with his commitment? Mr. Chairman. It is striking that only 30,000 corporate homes have been added in the Netherlands since 2012, compared to almost 600,000 homes in total. The share of social housing is therefore steadily decreasing. Can the proposers explain why they are satisfied with an equal number and why they are not betting on a at least equal share? Or do they settle for a gradual defeat? Mr. Chairman. Are the proposers not setting too low a standard? A legal minimum is often understood by players in a market as a standard. If that standard is that the number should not decrease, can the share of social housing be reduced? Could the share of fake social rent increase? In other words, is the means, a minimum set, no worse than the ailment of standard blur and too little ambition, namely the addition of social rent and the addition of social housing? Mr. Chairman. In the Christian Union, we have a lot of confidence in local democracy. We also attach great importance to the house of Thorbecke, to stay with today's theme. I want to be very careful with it to ride through it as a state. Let me take an example, but not from The Hague, where I was happy to be a council member for seven years. It's a work visit I made last Friday. I visited the municipalities of West Betuwe and Zaltbommel on Friday. I spoke there with a very passionate and socially moved director of housing corporation De Kernen. This corporation is active in 38 villages, in six municipalities. I can tell you that the people of these corporation villages like Haaft, Hedel and Herwijnen and their inhabitants know much better than Mr Nijboer, Mrs Beckerman, Mrs Bromet and myself. It could well be that the social share in one of these villages would have to fall slightly for a good housing mix, while the number and perhaps the share in all those other villages would have to increase. I have a few questions. To what extent do the proposers trust local politicians, local directors and local corporations to make an appropriate assessment? Are the proposers convinced that the municipal councils intend to actively reduce the number of social housing units in the coming years? Or are there other reasons why we shouldn't make the trade-off local? I have one more question for Minister De Jonge. On the other hand, the Minister gives up on local democracy in his letter and writes nothing about the well-known direction he wants to take. What exactly does this direction in this matter mean and what doesn't? What does this mean for making performance agreements on affordable housing? Mr. Chairman. My critical questions do not alter the need for many affordable housing to be added. We have recently agreed to this with other parties. This means that there must be more social rent, more middle rent and also more affordable purchase. For the Minister, what is the Minister's view on this? What is his ambition when it comes to adding social rent? Is this at least 20% of the newly built houses, at least 28%, as the ABF argues, or for example 30%, which many municipalities now use as a guide rate for adding new buildings? Does the Minister focus on increasing the share of social rent and the total stock or perhaps on concrete numbers, and how many are there? In any case, I am pleased that, with the market test on hold and the landlord's tax off, housing corporations will be able to add a lot more affordable housing again in the coming years. 30,000 social housing out of 600,000 over the last ten years: that was really dramaticly too little. Let us together ensure that in the coming years we will not only build much more, but also build much more affordable and therefore much more social rent. So far.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-tweedekamer-23.u58	Thank you. I call Mr De Groot of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-tweedekamer-23.u59	Mr. Chairman. I cannot promise to rhyme here as well as my predecessor in the Christian Union, Mr Grinwis. So I would like to start here today by thanking the initiators and also the official support for the proposal and the time they have put into it. I think I am speaking on behalf of many parties here today when I say that we need to work for residents who cannot get a home at the moment. That is why we consider this as a VVD a sympathetic proposal. I indicated at the end of February in the debate on the State of the housing market that the groups for which we have to work are our inhabitants who are looking for a home: starters, runners, single people, elderly people. The waiters for a social rental house are also included. By changing the law it seems easy to solve the problems of house seekers, but with a change of law we have no house extra. That is what we need to do in practice. Let me put it this way: we agree on the objective, available social housing for people who need it without having to wait for it for years. Only in the case of the used substance, the incorporation into the law, do we as a VVD still have our doubts. So what's the solution according to the VVD? There are two: build and flow. It is about building affordable homes, because in the next ten years our population will continue to grow. We will have to anticipate that. As a VVD we go for a mix of homes, including social rentals. The Minister makes performance agreements with corporations under the coalition agreement; that is how we agreed. Secondly, it is a question of really starting the flow, of building in all segments. Also then we play free social rentals. Because fair is fair: the VVD also sees that at the moment too many social rental homes are occupied by residents who had already wanted or could have flowed out. But there is no alternative available to them. The availability of social housing is therefore a wider problem in the housing market. Can the initiators also agree with these two solutions of the VVD? I'd like a reflection on this. Both the Council of State and the Minister, in their appreciation, are not convinced that this should be laid down in the law, both with their own arguments. Roughly the Council of State asks: what problem do you solve with this? That's a relevant question. The Minister stresses that there is a great deal of attention to this problem and that we should not make it much more complex when it is laid down in the law. For the VVD it is important to mention that regional flexibility in the number of social housing to be built is also important, as has already been mentioned here today. The need for social housing varies from city to village. Mr President, a few final words. The VVD really values saying once again that we support the goal of available social housing for people who really need it. However, the number of social housing is not an end in itself, but a means of ensuring this. In this we differ from the initiators. Today, on behalf of the VVD, I made proposals to achieve the goal of building and passing through. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-tweedekamer-23.u60	There's been an interruption by Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-tweedekamer-23.u61	If you agree with the purpose of the bill, what means does the bill not achieve exactly?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-tweedekamer-23.u62	I haven't been here very long, so by Mr Boulakjar's analogy: I don't really understand the question very well. Perhaps you could clarify that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-tweedekamer-23.u63	A law has a certain reason, a certain purpose. That's the goal. That is what the VVD says: we support it. I was listening. I thought, "Well, it's beautiful. The largest party in our Parliament has always had considerable resistance to rents and especially to social rents. There's been another wind blowing." But then the final sentence of the VVD, by Mr De Groot, is: we do not support this, because there are no proper means in it. What better way of achieving the same goal?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-tweedekamer-23.u64	Another wind or not, the VVD also sees the problems of the entire housing market. The VVD also sees the problem that the waiting lists for social housing are long. The VVD also sees the problem that at the moment there are a lot of residents who might want to flow through, trapped in social housing. Let me get that point. The VVD sees in this proposal the aim of ensuring that there are at least enough homes for those who would like to live in them. But if you say "sound that number of houses," then this proposal doesn't arrange for these people to flow out. The housing numbers remain the same. This proposal does not allow the flow to begin. The VVD sees both adding social housing as well as ensuring flow into and out of the social sector as the solution. That's why I indicated what the target is. Then we will ensure that there are enough homes available for those who need them and that they do not have to be on the waiting list for so long.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-tweedekamer-23.u65	That this bill does not regulate the addition of a lot of houses, everyone agrees on that. The aim of this bill is to ensure that when performance agreements are made in the municipalities about demolition, building and development, there will never be less social housing. That is entirely in line with the Marijnissen motion adopted. That is also fully in line with the VVD's plea. I would like to ask the VVD: what is the problem with capturing that and simply saying to each other that the housing crisis is there? We all see them. We all see the challenge of building a huge amount. The flow is a good point. I don't necessarily have to kick people out of their homes, but maybe we can seduce them; let's put it positively in that way. But at least what we agree with each other is that there will be no less social housing in the performance agreements about demolition, building, redevelopment and development. Then what's wrong with that goal?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-tweedekamer-23.u66	It's definitely not about scaring people out of their homes. That wasn't my point. My point was about the fact that people who would like to, too, are stuck and therefore not making the property available to those who are on the waiting list again. I'd like to make that clear. But I also have a great deal of faith in what we have agreed with the coalition about the million homes we are going to build. I'm not worried that we're not adding enough social housing. I'm not worried about that at all. We want to build 1 million homes. My predecessor who was just standing here, Grinwis, also mentioned: are there 200,000, 250,000 or 300,000? Well, those plans are all coming to the Chamber. Those houses really need to get there. That's what this coalition stands for, and that's what the VVD stands for, because that's what we signed up for.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-tweedekamer-23.u67	Finally, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-tweedekamer-23.u68	I have seen a lot of debates in the past in which it was said: "You can finely introduce a landlord's tax, because that really does not go at the expense of the housing stock. We cannot imagine housing corporations doing that. We cannot imagine that aldermen are going to demolish and rebuild less affordable homes. We can't imagine it!" No guarantees were asked for. No soil was laid anywhere. And it did then. Actually, here's what we're doing here. We'll put a bottom in it. Whatever happens, whatever is being developed, rebuilt or demolished, at least there are no social rentals going down. I am sorry, because I found Mr De Groot's speech really encouraging: 'We support the objective. A new time has come. Living for everyone in the Netherlands." It really sounded like a new wind at the VVD. But then I would also recommend voting in favour of this bill. Maybe we don't need it. Well, then it's a waste of time, but at least we'll have a stick behind the door.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-tweedekamer-23.u69	I didn't really hear a question in it. I think I also mentioned in my speech where I still see a number of minor problems. We are really looking at that differently from the initiators of the bill. That is the answer to Mrs Leijten for now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-tweedekamer-23.u70	I actually have the same question to the VVD as the question I had for the CDA, and actually also for the Christian Union and D66. I wonder very much what debate we are at. We are not in a debate about whether or not we have confidence in local democracy. Everyone here has that. We also do not have a debate on the flow of housing, because everyone here has very good plans for this, including the proposers. We are having a debate here about the lack of social housing. Everyone describes the pain, including the VVD. There's a serious shortage of social housing. We can see that the trend has not yet started. And then a bill is put forward to at least ensure that we don't sink through the floor, with enough room for local drivers to do customized work afterwards, and then everyone says: no. And then everyone comes up with plans for flow and with the story that we also have to build for middle rent. There is one question: do we want to fall through our hoofs in terms of the supply of social supplies while we are in a housing crisis? I ask that question through the chairman to the VVD: yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-tweedekamer-23.u71	In my speech, I made it very clear that it is about the availability of housing. The question now before us concerns the following. What if we put that bottom down? Suppose we would do that and say: yes, we do that here, those 2.0 or 2.1 or 2.2 million social rental homes in the Netherlands, and then we don't fall through that lower limit. Which living space have we created in the Netherlands for the target group that it desperately needs and is on that waiting list? As far as the VVD is concerned, zero. Zero homes, homes that are needed to get rid of those waiting lists, we have realized extra. That's why the VVD comes here with a realistic story. The VVD says we have to build, we have to add. Look also at the agreements we made in the coalition agreement, such as abolishing the landlord's tax. That's what we're making money for. We have recognised this problem and now say: we have to build to create enough living space. So I'm not talking about housing, I'm talking about creating living space. We need to make it available to those people who are waiting. It's been a long time. That's where the flow comes in. That is why we as a VVD really look different against getting those numbers available.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-tweedekamer-23.u72	Then I really have the question, through the chairman, whether the VVD is familiar with the statement: governance is forward-looking. We all know that social construction is now under way, after which it will be released after the first landlord. That's what you're saving with this bill. What is social can therefore remain social. You yourself know, I say through the President, that if we leave it to market forces, there will be little left of these fine social plans. So we lay a bottom, precisely because governing is forward-looking. Then we'll take control of that housing market. Then we'll make sure there's an affordable offer. So this is still not an answer to the question: do we want to drop through the hoofs, yes or no, if it is the VVD's fault?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-tweedekamer-23.u73	Once again, because I cannot answer any other question: we do not fall through the hoofs. We're not gonna do that, because there's gonna be a million more homes. Social housing will certainly be part of that. That is what we agreed with each other in the coalition agreement. That's what performance agreements are about.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-tweedekamer-23.u74	Finally, Mrs Kathmann.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-tweedekamer-23.u75	Then I would like a reflection of the VVD on what actually all the big names in the building world indicate, namely that the plans are not realistic anyway. Then you always have to be careful, because then the social segment always loses out first. So I like the way he looks at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-tweedekamer-23.u76	I really don't agree with that. We have a big challenge when it comes to the homes to be built in the Netherlands. I have just said that, of course, we have a huge problem to solve in the social sector. But even if you want to buy a house as a starter or a police officer, you've been waiting for years. The tenant in that social rental house who might want to flow to buy or to middle rent, is also waiting tremendously. That is the same rule that we have huge challenges to realise these homes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-tweedekamer-23.u77	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Kathmann of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-tweedekamer-23.u78	Mr. Chairman. It's like I dressed on it. I am speaking tonight not only on behalf of the Labour Party, but also on behalf of GroenLinks. What is special about tonight is that we are talking about an initiative law that many Dutch people think already exists. After all, we are in a housing crisis. The fact that you would be allowed to drop the number of social housing legally is therefore just a bit insane. A lady with me down the street hasn't been out in two years. Haven't been out in two years! She's an older, disabled lady, often a little psychologically confused, and she's just stuck in a house upstairs. She has a statement of urgency, but there is no house. There are thousands of such stories and thousands of worse stories. There is actually only one expectation among the people behind these stories: that we limit the further decline in the number of affordable homes in the Netherlands. Let me go clichéfully with a statement by a social-democratic giant; he has already fallen. He said: in Amsterdam we say that. But you can't live in bullshit, said Jan Schaefer. But certainly not in market forces. He would have added that to it by now. That is why I am incredibly happy for everyone in housing shortage in the Netherlands and for anyone who is uncertain about his living situation that this bill is before us. That is why many thanks to Mrs Beckerman, Mrs Bromet and Mr Nijboer, but above all also to their staff and to everyone who has worked hard on this behind the scenes. The bottom of the social stock is reached. In some places, we've fallen through. So, in order to avoid a collective collapse, a lot of people have worked hard to put this proposal down here tonight. Fortunately not tonight's proposers, but a lot of people in the Netherlands and also here in The Hague have forgotten: living is a fundamental right. In doing so, the Empire has a constitutional duty of care for adequate housing. I will say myself for my actions today, but in this duty of care, the cabinet has not exactly succeeded in recent years. Investors have been taken care of, weed profits have been provided and house collectors have been very well taken care of, but the fundamental right is not to live. You can't find an affordable house anymore. Waiting lists for social rentals are too long, also for people with an urgency statement like that lady down the road. For the Labour Party and GroenLinks the goal is clear: everyone must have access to a fine and affordable home. But for that to happen, direction has to be taken. That starts with this bill, where we establish a floor for the number of affordable homes and in the meantime simply offer that flexibility to those local drivers we trust, who are driving, for example, in a shrinking region or are dealing with other unforeseen circumstances. Now I understand that there are a number of criticisms of this bill. I use the word "understand" on purpose, because I don't really get it. It is claimed that the decline in the number of social housing units in the Netherlands has stopped. But that is not clear from the figures at all. Locally there will be a number of places, but if you take the figures, you will see that in the total number of homes, the percentage of housing is simply falling socially. And even if the decline had stopped, the demand for social housing has simply increased and the number of households has also increased. The number of households entitled to rent payments has also increased. Then I read in the reaction of the cabinet to this bill a lot of words like "expected," "we have the impression that" and "we just have a lot of fiduciary in that," and then it's just about the increase in the number of social rental homes, about better flow and so on. But then again kindly said: these soft terms, you can't rely on them when you're on that waiting list with an urgency statement? With "we expect" and "we're most likely going to enter this" you don't have anything in your hands, do you? Then you just need that fundamental right of yours to be laid down by law, don't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-tweedekamer-23.u79	There is an interruption by Mr Grinwis.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-tweedekamer-23.u80	Mrs Kathmann spoke just now about the number of houses that would not fall, and about the share that would fall. My question is: why is there no amendment by Mrs Kathmann to change the word 'number' in the law to'share'? Because the law lays down a minimum for the number. The number has not fallen in recent years. But the share is, as Mr Kathmann rightly says. Then why not tighten up the law on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-tweedekamer-23.u81	I think that if you determine the soil for the numbers, at least that is a very good way to establish legally that those numbers should not be reduced. Making sure you don't sink through that bottom, plus the plans there are for the corporations and more space to add, you've come a long way.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-tweedekamer-23.u82	Isn't Mrs. Kathmann afraid of the opposite? As long as you have a standard in society, everyone keeps to it. But once there is a law that sets a minimum, some people think, "Hey, that minimum out of the law is the norm. You know what? Let's build up fake social rent." That then comes in place of real social rental homes by allowed institutions, our housing corporations. Can't Mrs. Kathmann see the risks of this bill?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-tweedekamer-23.u83	Anyway, it was a good question about that standard, but it really shouldn't be understood that way. That's not how we work in the Netherlands. What about fake social? I wouldn't be one of those anyway. For example, I already made a remark about "social" that we are now putting on the market and then releasing again after the first tenant. In any case, these are practices that you should lay down by law that we no longer do. But by at least taking the first step not for the share, but for the numbers, you are at least setting a standard. I think it would be nice to start with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-tweedekamer-23.u84	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-tweedekamer-23.u85	I would also like to dwell on the opinion of the Council of State. The Labour Party and GroenLinks also understand and share the view of the Council of State that the flow is part of the problem. But with this bill nothing is put in the way of the Empire to regulate the flow properly. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I would like to take up the topicality of the day. It has been said enough today, so perhaps it is unnecessary, but the purchasing power loss is historically high and there is war in Ukraine. We don't know what tail this is gonna get. Just a lot of people in social rental homes or people waiting for a social rental home are in big trouble. By adopting this bill, GroenLinks and the Labour Party believe at least to take away a small part of the stress, by bringing the guarantee of a fine and affordable home a bit closer and above all by giving the cabinet a boost to take control by laying a foundation in the numbers of affordable homes. As regards the questions to the authors and, above all, the Minister, I fully agree with Mr Van Baarle of DENK. He has actually formulated the same questions and a number of better, and even better formulated. I'm not gonna spend any more time on that. I made this contribution not only on behalf of the Labour Party, but also on behalf of GroenLinks. I would therefore like to conclude by expressing my thanks to the SP for submitting this proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-tweedekamer-23.u86	Thank you. Finally, on the side of the Chamber, Mr Bishop of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-tweedekamer-23.u87	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to join with all my fellow Members in their appreciation of the initiative work that has been carried out here. Indeed, I'd like to include your employees in that. All the appreciation for that. The initiative proposal also has a good goal: sufficient affordable housing for everyone, including for social tenants. We all agree that something needs to be done about the housing market and the whole population housing. Too many young people and start-ups can't find an affordable home and too many older people can't find a suitable senior home, causing a flood. The problems in the rental sector are also considerable. So work to be done. However, I would like to make a number of comments on this initiative proposal. Colleagues have already pointed out that the concept dates back to 2018. The data and the context are somewhat dated. The numbers and the analyses are a little dated. I would like to hear from the initiators how this proposal fits into the current housing market. Is it still necessary in their view, even given the expectations for housing for the coming years? In short, would they have started last week? So to speak, huh? Mr. Chairman. I actually have a very simple question for the initiators, which is in line with this. What is the problem with this proposal? The number of homes of housing corporations has been virtually the same for years. I agree with everyone who makes a few comments, because it is also a bit of the perspective you choose. Indeed, there is a relative decline and population growth means that there are fewer social housing units per inhabitant. That's what the initiators also call it, but the bill doesn't offer any solutions for that. Also, given the ambitions of housing corporations and the financial resources they receive from the abolition of the landlord levy, in future I may see the size of the social rental sector as brighter than the initiators. In the social sector there is housing shortage, certainly, but it is also in the free sector and certainly also in the free rental sector. Especially for middle incomes and starters there is hardly a property with an affordable rent to be found. I have a specific question for the initiators, and this is without prejudice to the appreciation I have for this initiative proposal: is it not much more sensible to focus on increasing the affordable sector? Because this one-sidedly puts the focus on social rent. I understand the concern, but that's only one component of the entire housing market. What would it mean if you also secured an amount of affordable rent? This could lead to a possible start to flow. So you have properties available. I wonder if there are too few social housing units or if there are too few social housing units available for the new target group. Would the initiators want to reflect on that again? Mr. Chairman. Municipalities and local administrators play a very important role in the housing file in terms of the SGP. They know what's needed locally. Next week there will be municipal elections, which will allow local representatives to be elected and to make their own decisions. This proposal is, after all, firmly based on that. The frameworks within which local parties can make an assessment are further restricted. However, we all know that the housing market in the Randstad looks different from the housing market on the Veluwe or in Zeeland. Local autonomy is essential for us as a SGP, so local considerations are also essential. I have a specific question: how do the initiators view this bill in the light of local autonomy? And how should this bill reflect the diversity between municipalities in the housing file? Mr. Chairman. There can indeed be a local deviation from the main rule that the social housing stock should not be reduced. The explanatory statement indicates that it can actually only be done in shrinking areas. In the answer to the questions there is also demolition as a result of fretting or fire. Is this a limited list given according to the intention of the proposers, or are there any other exceptions to be found? In addition, the question is whether this will not lead to a huge paperwork and bureaucracy. As the initiators themselves rightly point out, it sometimes happens that the number of social housing units in a municipality is falling. This is expected to lead to the necessary requests for exceptions, with all the delay and complexity that this entails. How do the initiators consider these objections? And how will this proposal not lead to more delays and, in particular, less housing? Mr. Chairman. The SGP shares the concerns of the initiators about the housing stock, whether it is social housing or residential housing. We need to pay attention to that. But whether this is the right way to more homes, we as SGP honestly doubt. We look forward to an enthusiastic response. Maybe it will lead to some adjustment of positions over and over again. This would have achieved a nice parliamentary objective. Mr President, I should like to leave it at that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-tweedekamer-23.u88	Thank you, Mr. Bishop. That is the end of the first term on the part of the Chamber. I would like to thank all those Members of Parliament who are here, but also Sandra Beckerman from home. I thank the policy staff and the Minister for their listening ear. The resumption of this debate will take place at a later date, in consultation with the initiators. I would also like to thank all the support that has been given today in the Chamber, the people in the public gallery and the people who have followed this debate in a different way.
