ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-22-tweedekamer-25.u1	The next item is the debate on the development of purchasing power and rising energy prices. I would like to welcome the three heads of government to section K: the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment, the Minister for Finance and the Secretary of State for Finance. I would also like to welcome Members of Parliament, as well as the people in the public gallery and the people who are following the debate in a different way. We agreed to do the first term of office today. We'll do the rest of the debate tomorrow. I would like to share four questions and/or comments with Members for today. An interruption is short and powerful. First of all, I give the floor to Mr Klaver van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-22-tweedekamer-25.u2	Mr President, thank you. During the political reflections this autumn, I quoted Édouard Louis, who, I say quite frankly, sketches that if you have a lot of money and if you have it right for each other, that politics says something about your identity, about who you are and what you stand for in life. But if you're having a hard time, if you're having a hard time, if you don't have a job or if you do have a job, but you deserve the least from everyone in the Netherlands or in your country, then it matters what choices politics make. That's exactly what this is about for me today. Not a little debate about €50 more on one side or €100 less on the other. The question we need to ask ourselves is: do we do everything we can to help those who cannot see the price increases we see, such as energy prices and grocery prices? The hard answer to that question is: no, we're not doing everything to help them; we're dropping them. That is harsh, but that is the choice this cabinet has made. I think it is necessary to adapt it. Mr. Chairman. The government plans still include figures from January, with a standard energy consumption, an average energy consumption, assuming an energy bill that is €100 higher than a year earlier. Also in all the letters we receive, reference is made to this. But if you go to the website of any energy provider today, you will see that the monthly amount is now €423. The prices have gone through much harder. Politics is dealing with drawing table politics: we are stuck with figures that are long gone to the truth. That is exactly why GroenLinks has proposed freezing prices. Because if you don't freeze the prices, you're pushing problems ahead: you can add some money now, but next month you'll have a bigger problem. That is why once again the call: freeze prices. Make sure that not only the people with the lowest incomes, so the people with the benefit, are helped. The scheme that has now been rigged applies to people with an income of up to 120% of the welfare standard. This can be increased by 10%. But a lot of people fall out there. Yesterday I asked people on Instagram the question: can you tell us about your situation, are you in trouble or not? Within an hour I had hundreds of reactions, for example: I work in home care and my partner works in construction; we earn just too much to knock on the door to the municipality, but we just don't get around anymore. Too little is happening for these people now. Here extra action is needed. Is the cabinet prepared to look again to see if anything can be done through the healthcare allowance? The cabinet has the ambition to tackle inequality, poverty among children. Have we looked at how we can add something to the child-related budget, if necessary in the case of child benefit? Mr. Chairman. More needs to be done. The same goes for houses. The people who get the most into trouble are the people who have rental homes whose quality is too low. Those people have no way of making their homes more sustainable, none of them. What concrete plans of the cabinet are there now to ensure that landlords can be forced to a rent discount when they do not make them more sustainable? That is a very direct way to ensure that these people can continue to pay their bills. Finally, Mr President. I hope for an open debate and a more open attitude from the coalition. So far, it has been limited, I saw online, to reactions to the proposals made by my group: there is an attempt to level them all down. Let's have the debate here. I would like to say: stop controlling the opposition and the proposals it makes and start with your real work, checking the government. If you are honest, you can see that the plans presented by this government are not enough to really do something to help the middle groups in the Netherlands. I hope that the opposition and the coalition can join forces today to make sure that we take an extra step and that I do not get another explanation from coalition partners about what the cabinet meant. I hope that you will confine yourselves to your task as a representative of the people: do what the Netherlands needs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-22-tweedekamer-25.u3	Thank you. There is another interruption by Mr Jansen of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-22-tweedekamer-25.u4	Mr Klaver calls on the entire opposition and the coalition, but does he also appeal to himself? It is not that these prices suddenly fell out of the sky. It's not like the energy bill hasn't been rising for years. The big problem with the energy bill is the gas price. I have recently tabled a motion to reduce the gas tax, just like the electricity tax, which has been reduced. Is Mr Klaver prepared to vote for it next time?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-22-tweedekamer-25.u5	No, because that's not necessary. The reductions that are already in place have the most effect on the lowest incomes, because we have increased the duty-free rate. There are other ways to compensate people. So as far as this proposal is concerned, I was not in favour of it and I am still not in favour of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-22-tweedekamer-25.u6	But the biggest problem with the energy bill is that the gas price is now incredibly high. In the past year, it has simply increased fivefold to tenfold. We can now give very acute relief to a lot of people. 32% of households are on gas. I don't know how you can't see that. How can you not blame yourself for the fact that the climate policy of the last ten years has led directly to this?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-22-tweedekamer-25.u7	I don't understand why you're here with dry eyes...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-22-tweedekamer-25.u8	I'd like to go through the chairman. That goes for both of you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-22-tweedekamer-25.u9	I do not understand why Mr Jansen is standing here with dry eyes claiming that this would have to do with climate policy. I'll tell you even more. If we had really worked on climate policy in recent years, if we had really made sure that all those pawnshops and all the housing corporations had just kept their houses properly preserved, those bills would not have exploded. So we should have done something about climate policy. We wouldn't have been so dependent on Putin. The problem is that we have done far too little, making us dependent on Putin and making households consume far too much energy. That's the big problem. Then there is the question: how can you ensure that prices remain affordable in the short term? We can take a few steps. One: freeze the prices now. Two: make sure that the people who need it most are given extra help. That is not only €800 for people with benefits, but it is the workers who are at the bottom of the wage building. Try to help them as closely as possible. That's the way to move forward now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-22-tweedekamer-25.u10	I don't know what I'm hearing. Of course, this is the result of climate policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-22-tweedekamer-25.u11	You don't want to hear it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-22-tweedekamer-25.u12	Your party is leading the way in closing the Groninger gas field, all with climate, appealing to it and all that stuff. I would like to point out the whole idea of this gas tax. We're now going to compensate the energy bill through the power. Why is the gas tax not reduced? That is because there is now a forced energy transition. That's what your party's for. That is what is written in the climate agreement. Of course this is climate policy. We need to lower that gas tax.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-22-tweedekamer-25.u13	One thing. I hope people in Groningen are listening. We don't want to stop pumping gas from Groningen because of the climate. That's not why pretty much the whole parliament is before that. We do that because the risks for Groningen are so enormous. That's why we want to speed it up. That's what's going on. Gas is a great transition fuel for the coming years, but we have said together: we are not going to do that with Groningen gas. I don't want it on my conscience that people there have to live in insecurity. The Democracy Forum feels very differently about this. He thinks: pump it up there and give people money, then we'll buy it off. Not everything in life can be bought off, Mr. Jansen. People have lived there for generations. The impact of the insecurity of the situation in Groningen is enormous. I don't think we should be pumping up there.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-22-tweedekamer-25.u14	Thank you, Mr. Clover. Then I give the floor to Mr Nijboer of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-22-tweedekamer-25.u15	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would describe the government's purchasing power repair plan as too much for some people and too little for many people. On average, VAT and excise reductions reach the people with the highest incomes, while those who are very difficult to survive receive too little compensation and simply do not make ends meet at the end of the month. And that group is big. It doesn't just consist of people with benefits or people living around the minimum. I was just walking here for a cup of coffee to the restaurant. Then someone said: my energy bill went from €150 to €320 in the month. That was an energy bill from a family with two children. That's just not gonna pay off if you can just make it through every month. Those are people who have a nice job, who do important work, and they don't get around at the end of the month. This is, of course, partly due to the huge rise in inflation, partly due to the crisis in Ukraine, but it is also due to the neglect of purchasing power policy in the government agreement. By not opting for a revision of the tax system, for asking for a contribution from the most wealthy and the companies and for increasing purchasing power with the expected economic growth at that time, everyone was already on the zero line and everyone is now sinking through the bottom. So I do not think that Ukraine's cabinet can use as the only excuse for the disastrous purchasing power figures. Of course, Ukraine has made the situation worse, but it was already bad. Mr. Chairman. I want to know why no action has been taken in the following four areas. One of the biggest problems concerns the tenants, and then certainly tenants in a drafty rental house. Because there's nowhere to go. You're stuck with that landlord and you can't go to another house. Why not opt for mandatory rent reduction for tenants living in a very drafty house? We have the labels F, G, E. You may be able to give €200 for G and €100 for another label. You can come up with all the fare truffles for that. Why wasn't that chosen? People notice that right away. Why not freeze the rent for the large group of tenants who are at risk of falling so far? Why not raise the rent allowance, which is also possible? Isn't it the people with the lower middle incomes who receive rent payments and who are in rental homes that have been lagging behind for years? Mr. Chairman. In the case of transport, excise duty is reduced. That can be done quickly, I understand that, but why not choose to increase the tax space for travel expenses? That is now €0.19 per kilometre, which can be paid by employers, and that is employees who sometimes have to travel 50, 60 kilometres before work, sometimes even more. It just chops in when you have to do that every day. Why not opt for that targeted measure? Why not take an example from New Zealand, where they have made public transport much more attractive? This also stimulates sustainable travel. That's where they cut the prices in half. As far as I am concerned, the cabinet can also make this more attractive by 20%. Why not take such a measure? Mr. Chairman. Why has not the minimum wage increase been brought forward and further increased? That would be the case with the people who are the least affected, and the cabinet was already planning to do so. The cabinet was already planning to allocate 150 million for energy-saving measures. I think it is wise that this has been brought forward. But yes, for 150 million out of how many million inhabitants we have, 17 million by now, you can buy three LED lights per house once. Of course, that doesn't make any sense. This is not a large-scale programme, which means that energy costs will remain affordable. Why didn't you choose that? Finally, Mr President. I'm also a financial spokesman, as you know. To be honest, I did not think it was possible to tie any more strings to budgetary policy. A month ago, we were standing here at the Start Note. Then Minister Kaag said: you'll see it in the spring note. Then Mr. Stoffer of the SGP said: then we can go home; what are we doing here? At WNL the Minister said: excise duty is not possible. But the next Friday, a few days later, we get a tax reduction in one go, and then we get or no law at 2.8 billion renovations. It's still not clear to us. The Court's budget law must also be respected. So I expect legislation for that and I expect a debate on those laws as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-22-tweedekamer-25.u16	Thank you. An interruption by Mr Alkaya, SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-22-tweedekamer-25.u17	Mr Nijboer gives a lot of alternatives that just sound good. I would have liked to have debated that too. Mr Klaver just made a very clear statement: back to the drawing board; this plan, which the cabinet is now presenting, needs to be adapted. I do not hear Mr Nijboer say that. Then leave it in the middle, does he agree with it or does he say: all this has to be included; all the alternatives that I have now mentioned should be added?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-22-tweedekamer-25.u18	I don't think this is enough. So I'm dissatisfied with the current package.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-22-tweedekamer-25.u19	I get that. I will also emphasise in my own contribution the importance for many people that this is happening quickly. Many countries have already made tax cuts and many people are wondering why it is always taking so long in the Netherlands. So if Mr Nijboer says 'this is not enough', he says: the measures I propose should be added. What the cabinet is proposing now, I understand, but more needs to be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-22-tweedekamer-25.u20	I hope that the cabinet, which I am very much with Mr Klaver, will eventually also listen to good opposition suggestions. Mr Klaver has made a number of comments, and I have made suggestions myself in four areas. I'll run it on two things. One. Does it end up with the most vulnerable households, with people who have the most problems? And two. Do the middle-incomes get compensation? Because it's not just the people with benefits who can't make it. It's also a lot of middle income. I'll test it on that. If I take that test from the cabinet, I'll give it an incompetence on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-22-tweedekamer-25.u21	Thank you. An interruption by Mr Grinwis, Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-22-tweedekamer-25.u22	I agree with Mr Nijboer that proper legislative changes should simply be submitted to the Chamber and that the Chamber should be honored in its budget law. But do I understand why Mr Nijboer says that the reduction in excise duty, which is now on the agenda of 1 April and which is initially being implemented by means of a policy decision, should not be implemented, because we simply have to deal with a law properly first? And so motorists have to wait until July 1st?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-22-tweedekamer-25.u23	Well, I was actually expecting that law here. It is not so that a month ago, when we had the debate here on the Start note, there were no colleagues... I wasn't there because I had other measures that I was promoting, but the PVV, for example, was for excise duty reduction. Then Minister Kaag referred to the Spring Note and we said: it takes far too long; look out. That should have been here by now. That is my criticism of the cabinet. If you convert so many hundreds of millions into the budget without allowing Parliament to approve it, then this measure should have been a relatively simple measure, and it should have been here today, I think. We could have debated this today and voted directly, as far as I am concerned, because I am not at all of the delaying tactics. The First Chamber can also be quick. Then it would have been arranged. I would have preferred that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-22-tweedekamer-25.u24	Thank you, Mr. Nijboer. Then I give the floor to Mr Alkaya, SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-22-tweedekamer-25.u25	Mr. Chairman. War never knows winners, only losers. Unfortunately. The terrible war in Ukraine is no exception. Millions of people are running from their lives. Although the economic consequences of this war in our country are stark at the suffering of the Ukrainians, those indirect consequences can also hurt, especially if you had difficulty getting through before. Inflation, higher prices and specifically a much higher bill for gas, for electricity and for fuel, are currently hurting many Dutch people. The stories that reach us, for example from people who have had to stop their work because simply the daily car ride became too expensive, therefore call for swift action. The SP therefore supports the measures the government intends to take to ease the pain somewhat, but why is it taking so long? In many countries taxes on energy and fuels have been reduced much earlier. Why do Dutch people have to wait until 1 April when it comes to fuel, or even until 1 July when it comes to reducing VAT? People are already at risk of getting into financial difficulties, and our government seems to be reacting structurally too slowly in these kinds of crisis situations, and that worries us. It is also hard to realise that those who do not need financial assistance at all will benefit most from the proposed compensatory measures. As I have said, I do understand that the measures must be implemented as quickly as possible and therefore rude. But has it also been investigated how long it would take to give the compensation more targeted and finer shape, so that people who really need it would get more? They're not getting enough right now. Is it true that it would take much longer? Therefore, I am not saying that the cabinet should now return to the drawing board, because that would probably take much more time and that is time that many people simply do not have. But it's still harsh, and it's still unfair. This injustice can be remedied in other ways, namely by sharing the bill fairly. The cabinet proposes to set the bill for future generations, by putting forward the future natural gas revenues and by publishing them in advance. If the SP had proposed this accounting trick, it would certainly have been dissuaded by the government, but it is now simply doing it itself. And there's another way to do it. If the people with the highest incomes disproportionately benefit from these compensatory measures, is it not obvious and fair to ask them to make an extra contribution in this time of crisis? Why does the government always refrain from a solidarity levy in exceptional times like this? Mr. Chairman. That's how it was in corona time. Even then, extremely coarse aid measures were introduced, which mainly benefited large companies such as KLM. And even then, a small contribution from profitable companies out of solidarity remained for a long time indiscusable to the government. The Court had to enforce a small increase in the income tax. Let us do this differently now. Now, in order to preserve the sense of justice, let us not just talk about compensation or compensation, which must necessarily be unfocused and quick and therefore end up with a lot of people who do not need it. Let us also talk about how we actually organise solidarity in society and thus share the bill fairly. You can do that with a millionaire tax, for example. This can be done by taxing profits for large companies or by increasing income tax for the most wealthy. Is the Cabinet prepared to make proposals in this direction in the upcoming Tax Plan? This is not a question of envy, but of fair sharing and solidarity. That is precisely what is needed in times of crisis and in times of war. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-22-tweedekamer-25.u26	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Tony van Dijck, PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-22-tweedekamer-25.u27	Thank you, Mr President. When I read this purchasing power repair plan, I thought, too little, too late. It's five to twelve. The world is on fire. Inflation is moving towards double figures, interest rates are rising, the euro is falling, the recession is coming forward and purchasing power is falling. Maybe we'll even get stag-flation. This Minister of Finance is not responding. She doesn't say anything and she doesn't do anything. We're watching fuel prices go up. The gas price went down just twenty times. The energy bill, the gas, a house, the groceries, the rent, you name it: everything becomes more expensive and more expensive; that goes fast. In retail, we see price increases of up to 20%. One even fears a buyer strike as purchasing power makes a dive. The CPB predicted an inflation rate of 1.8% less than six months ago. It has now adjusted it to 6%. Purchasing power isn't zero, it's negative 2.7. Klaas Knot warned last weekend about inflation rising to 9.5%. What is your answer to this, Minister of Finance? It is going to completely disrupt the economy, resulting in recession, poverty and bankruptcy. And what does our Prime Minister Rutte say? "Get used to it. We are going to feel this crisis for a long time." So we don't have to expect much from the cabinet. What the hell? Two tens! We get two tens to pay the energy bill, while the energy bill for most people increases by €150. Gasoline will also be €0.17 less expensive. We will not pay €2,47 on 1 April, but €2,30. Well, that should make us happy. In Belgium you still fill up for €1.77. That saves €50 on a full tank. Half of the Netherlands is gassing up in Belgium; that's not so weird. That's what I'd do. Mr. Chairman. The cabinet pays 2.7 billion, but pays this out of a windfall in gas revenues. It was created by higher gas prices. In fact, therefore, the consumer pays for this purchasing power package himself. It's a big cigar from its own box. That's how we know them. The PVV wants a decent compensation. Why should the State earn from the high gas price over the back of the consumer? They catch more VAT and they catch more for their gas. Therefore, put VAT on energy at zero and excise duties on petrol and diesel also, at least temporarily, for this year. That saves €500 on the bill and almost €1 per litre of gasoline. Lower and passerby rents, too. Increases the legal minimum wage and the AOW. Action is now needed before the whole of the Netherlands joins the food bank. Why does the €800 energy surcharge apply only to the minimums and not to incomes just above that, to the AOW's group with a small pension or to the small self-employed who deserve the minimum or something above that? Will they get nothing again? Don't they need it, like I read in the letter? Mr. Chairman. What is this finance minister going to do when companies are about to fall down because they find energy costs unbearable? Four out of ten gardeners, so we could read yesterday, intend to quit. People stop consuming too, that's how we read today. What do we do if purchasing power declines even further, if inflation moves towards 10% and if we fall into a wage-price spiral that leads to unemployment, interest rates rise and we end up in recession? We're all watching it happen. How is the Minister going to prevent this scenario? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-22-tweedekamer-25.u28	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Grinwis of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-22-tweedekamer-25.u29	Mr. Chairman. Are we discussing an ideal package of measures today? No. Are we discussing a short-term feasible package? Yes. And does it really help people to dampen the greatly increased energy costs? That, too. In particular, people in energy poverty are faced with this package. That's good. Those who can spare this least, who spend most of their income on food and energy and often live in a poorly isolated home, are having double bad luck at this expensive time. They are the ones who want to help the Christian Union. The reason for the rapid purchasing power repair by the cabinet is sad: war and an energy policy that has made Europe too dependent on Russian gas. We will talk about this later in the Thorbeckezal, in a consultation on security of supply. Back to the cabinet quartet measures. My group is most satisfied with the €800 for low-income households and the extra boost for better isolation of homes for energy saving. After all, the best energy is saved energy. I do have a few questions about these measures to the people in trade union K. Is the €800 leading or the total budget of 680 million? No misunderstanding, as far as the Christian Union Group is concerned, that is the €800 per household. I'm asking for the following reason. The municipality of Rotterdam indicates that the government's budget received is not sufficient to help everyone up to 120% of the legal social minimum. They're a few million short for that. So they work partly with a lower amount. This raises questions. Why hasn't a municipality like Rotterdam received enough money from the Empire to meet all minimums up to 120% with €800? Does this apply to more municipalities? Why has the Empire chosen 120%, while many municipalities in their poverty policies help people up to 130% of the social minimum? My group believes that people who report to the municipality in the event of an energy shortage should be helped. Does the Cabinet agree? If so, how does the cabinet ensure that municipalities really help anyone who needs help? I understand that students are not met as a group, but with them too, the need is sometimes severe. I heard of such a cozy dorm, with only glass, that this year it can tap €2,400 extra. Can the cabinet guarantee that if students report to the contact point for special assistance from a municipality, they will also be helped?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-22-tweedekamer-25.u30	There is an interruption by Mr Nijboer of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-22-tweedekamer-25.u31	I hope that students do not have to report to welfare. I have two questions. Why does the Christian Union think it is logical that students should not be met? They have high energy charges, don't they? Two. Why shouldn't you set that limit at 130% of the minimum for all the municipalities, for that $800? I think it's kind of weird that you get 110% when you live in one municipality, 120% when you live in another and 130% when you live in some municipalities. That's right... Then you depend on the municipality you live in, whether you can pay your energy bill. That's crazy, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-22-tweedekamer-25.u32	The cabinet has therefore chosen 120% of the statutory social minimum. Some municipalities also use 120% as a border, for example, in my opinion Amsterdam, other municipalities, such as The Hague, 130%. Rotterdam has a staffed energy poverty policy. But no matter how you turn it around, meeting people on low incomes through the municipality is the fastest route. My questions point out that if the cabinet has a directive to help people with €800 to 120% of the legal social minimum, then it must ensure that municipalities actually have the money in their hands to help those people. That's the most important thing for me right now. Then my question is: how do you deal with it if municipalities actually have a policy of up to 130%? But via the municipality is simply the fastest and best route to help these people.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-22-tweedekamer-25.u33	I have nothing against that municipal route. I have tabled another motion to get it to the people's account by April 1st. I have a problem with you depending on the municipality for how much compensation you get. We all think that the lower middle incomes also have huge problems with the energy bill. That's what every party in the Chamber thinks. Then why not put that limit on the municipalities which have set it at 130%, for example The Hague but also other municipalities? Why not provide the budget with that? Then you can meet the people who need it the most quickly and purposefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-22-tweedekamer-25.u34	I understand this question very well. I am very curious to hear the government's answer to this question. At the same time, I do not have the illusion that there is equality. This package is really rude in the short term in a world of differences. For example, people with a low income with a fixed contract are not at all affected by a sharp increase in the energy bill at the moment. People with a variable contract, especially if the energy supplier has gone bankrupt again, have to do with an energy bill increase that is much higher than that €800. So it's a matter of helping by ability. In this sense, the Christian Union Group is satisfied with the package, but with these questions. I also understand Mr Nijboer's question very well, so I am curious about the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-22-tweedekamer-25.u35	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-22-tweedekamer-25.u36	Then I come to the EUR 150 million extra for insulation, for energy-saving measures. That is the smallest budgetary measure in the package, but it may have the greatest impact. With this money, municipalities are providing massive energy boxes with €90 worth of energy-saving products such as radiator foil, LED lamps and economical shower heads, which save €180 in energy costs and that every year. I would like more of this, cabinet, and as far as I am concerned, not only with cash slides, as at present, but also by shifting extra money into the climate transition fund, if necessary, to the isolation of houses and the national isolation programme. Is the Minister of Finance open to this? Mr. Chairman. Let the cabinet set standards for landlords as a spear, because it is sad to see how many people in drafty and humid homes are now allowed to pay the top price. In short, hurry up, cabinet. And remove the threshold that means that people in debt relief can't borrow interest-free now to better isolate their homes. That's a threshold we can easily overcome. I'd like a response. Then the fuel taxes. I have already seen a lot of criticism of this, but lower excise duties also help the district nurse and the construction worker, who depend on their car every day, and the farmer, who at this time has to fill the dieseltank of the tractor again to start sowing and paws. That is not insignificant at this time of questions about food security. The extreme difference between the Dutch and Belgian petrol prices has also been mentioned. Moreover, it bothers me that the cabinet is initially introducing the reduction of excise duties by means of a policy decision, which is at odds with the Court's budget law. I understand that because of the speed and the fact that Belgium has already reduced its excise duty, but I am counting on the necessary legislative changes being sent to the Chamber very quickly. Finally, I would like to ask whether the cabinet has considered alternatives to the VAT allowance on the energy account. Can it give a little more clarity on how that weighting went and why it went out the way it did? That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-22-tweedekamer-25.u37	It is that Mr Grinwis cited Belgium himself, because Belgium wanted to go to a petrol price of €1,70 and we will hang on to €2,30, €2,33 later on after the excise duty reduction. It is quite logical that the people in the border region in Belgium are going to refuel and shop there and passer-by. I read today that the price of a carton of cigarettes there saves almost €30. In other words, the messages, the cigarettes, the petrol; all our money disappears to Belgium. Mr Grinwis wouldn't be okay with that, would he?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-22-tweedekamer-25.u38	First of all, I would say that anyone who does not honor the little one is not the big one. This step will at least help to reduce the difference between the Netherlands and Belgium. It is also significant for the border region and a little further away, because it is now profitable to drive from a larger distance to Belgium to refuel there, apart from the question of whether people have time for that. The reduction and budgetary losses may not be so bad, because more people are going to refuel in the Netherlands. At the same time, we should not pretend that with this package we are going to polish away all the differences between Germany and the Netherlands, for example, or between Belgium and the Netherlands. This package is intended to help people, especially those in need, very quickly. That's what this package does. This package is not intended to eliminate any difference with Belgium. That's a good thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-22-tweedekamer-25.u39	That's where my problem lies. Of course, we will never eliminate the differences with Belgium. But people in need are now being served to the legal minimum wage or to the social minimum, I must say. The Christian Union normally also stands for the breadwinner who earns morale. It also lacks money every month. It's not being operated with this package at all. He may get two tens, if he's lucky, on his energy bill, which has risen by over €150. Why don't you stand up for that group anymore, outside the group of people at the social minimum? Why don't you tell me that the breadwinner who earns the morale also craves a little compensation?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-22-tweedekamer-25.u40	The Christian Union Group did not expect miracles from the cabinet, but actions. Mr Van Dijck knows that the Christian Union Group stands for a tax system that is more just for single people and for householders. At the same time, between now and 1 April or between now and 1 July, you cannot regenerate a tax system. You can't change the energy taxes. You can't change the fees. You can't change the tax records until January 1st. The cabinet has looked into the toolbox and has had to conclude that it is actually quite empty if you want to mean something to people before 1 January, namely already, on 1 April and 1 July. That's what happened. This has led to these measures, namely a concession for people who need the most, a reduction in petrol tax and a reduction in the energy bill through VAT, and not to mention an incentive, an additional boost for better insulation of homes. I would say: if this is feasible in the short term, I am happy and grateful for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-22-tweedekamer-25.u41	Thank you. I shall now give the floor to Mr Van Weyenberg, D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-22-tweedekamer-25.u42	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On Thursday we'll talk in the Chamber about the report Clamp between desk and policy. Such a report always puts our noses on the facts, namely that not everything you want can always be in the execution. I have to say I had to think about that when I looked at the cabinet package for the energy bill. If it can't be done the way it has to be done, then it has to be done the way it can. That's the feeling I have. The package is not perfect. It's not perfectly focused on what people are or aren't suffering from, on people with a descending energy contract or not. It is a package that looks at what is workable in the short term, on 1 April or 1 July, to give people relief, in the reality that it will never be able to take away all the effects either. Mr. Chairman. When I look at the package, there's balance in it. As far as my group is concerned, the most important measure is the €800 for the 800,000 most vulnerable households. If you add the two packages of the cabinet together, they will receive a total of between €1,200 and €1,400 financial support. That's a lot. It is also the group that receives the most. And that's right. At the same time, the cabinet has not taken some measures, which you could have absolutely thought about. I have also heard a lot of this about measures relating to health care payments or the rate of income tax. The downside is that some people, especially the lowest incomes, do not pay taxes. Could the cabinet explain which alternatives have been weighed and why not? The main argument is always that we cannot introduce it in the short term during this year. That's my image, but I'd like to get a confirmation of that. I think it is important to make that explicit. I see Mr Klaver standing, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-22-tweedekamer-25.u43	Yes. Mr Klaver, GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-22-tweedekamer-25.u44	We have already asked many of these questions to the cabinet in recent times, and the cabinet has also answered them. We have said that people are not being sufficiently helped and that this cabinet is really letting people down. For example, you can freeze prices. You can move on to that, but the cabinet finds that too market-distorting. It makes the choice not to. How does D66 feel about that? Today we received answers to parliamentary questions about the healthcare allowance. You can choose to raise it once this year, but it is said that we are not going to do that. There's no answer to that. That's a political choice. I am not concerned with what questions you ask the cabinet, but with what D66 thinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-22-tweedekamer-25.u45	I think this is interesting. Mr Klaver keeps saying: we must have an open debate. Now I ask questions to the cabinet and he blames me for asking questions to the cabinet. To be honest, I find that a little remarkable. It must be the new political culture. I'll come back to the question. I asked that question about the care allowance. That's not a perfect instrument, so I want to know exactly what's going on. If I don't find the answer interesting, I don't have to ask the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-22-tweedekamer-25.u46	I respond strongly to this, because we have already received the answer from the cabinet. The following is said about the healthcare allowance. We received that letter just before the debate. I can get him right there, if you want. It says: you can do that once, not every month, but once. I am speaking out of Mr Van Weyenberg's words on... That's what I'm curious about. If that's possible, do you think we should implement it? The same applies to the freezing of energy prices. That's possible, too. That would really help people if we were to pin them on what they were in January. You can do that, but the Cabinet doesn't want that because it would be too market-distorting. I am concerned about the political judgment of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-22-tweedekamer-25.u47	I have seen the proposal for that market limit. I think this package is a good thing that there is a separate arrangement for the most vulnerable, which is the largest amount of money by far. If you set the market price, apart from the market distortion, then you really give the biggest energy users the most. I have heard Mr Klaver and fellow members of his party have been so critical over the last few days. So I find it very difficult to place. I do not want to ask another question, but make the following point: what we are doing now with energy taxes and excise duties, you find unfocused, because people with a slightly higher income get it. Well, I can promise you one thing: if we maximize the boundaries, that's the group that I think gets a lot more. I therefore approve of the package. I asked a question about the healthcare allowance, because first I want to know what it means and what it would mean. Do we still get risks with recovery instead? I am always very careful about fees; I can already see Mr Klaver nodding. With regard to the issue of price fixing, I think that the choice for the €800 scheme is more targeted.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-22-tweedekamer-25.u48	It's so focused that it only affects 800,000 families. I find the reasoning I have been hearing the whole coalition say for days, and now Mr Van Weyenberg, so strange. They say freezing is too generic. Lowering VAT is also too generic. Many measures are too generic. This whole package depends on generic measures, i.e. on the benefit of everyone. So go ahead and freeze the bill so that people don't get into any more trouble. 'Cause I know exactly what's gonna happen next. If we don't freeze the energy bill, we're gonna have to take it back in Parliament for two months to say: something extra really has to happen, because people in the Netherlands aren't going to make it around anymore. Prices continue to rise. The international expectations are that they'll explode even further, that they might go ten times. If you don't intervene now, the middle incomes are really hit hardest. There is my big problem: working people in the Netherlands, in health care or in cleaning, who are just above the benefit level, are not helped. They're in big trouble. They don't get the $800. The assignment for you and me is: how do we help this group of people?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-22-tweedekamer-25.u49	There is, of course, also a group of workers, and I have just heard Mr Alkaya say things about this, which, for example, need a car to go to work in a distribution centre. That is why I believe that excise duty is not the measure that I have on one of my list of wishes, and that is also a justifiable part of the package. I am about to ask a few specific questions about the demarcation of these 800,000 households, because I share with Mr Klaver that it is most difficult to reach the workers there. I didn't ask the question about the care allowance for nothing.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-22-tweedekamer-25.u50	Mr Klaver, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-22-tweedekamer-25.u51	It's nice to have these questions asked. I have a taste of an open attitude at D66 that we should do something extra, but let me just say that the end of this debate cannot be that we simply continue with the simple package that is now before us. It's the working people who are getting into trouble right now. If it is said that it is all too complicated and therefore we cannot help them, it is really unacceptable as far as my group is concerned. We make a promise to people who work in the Netherlands that you can make a living in this country, but this cabinet is not doing anything at the moment, but really nothing to help this group substantially. So I'm assuming we can find each other. If it can't be very targeted, then it should be a little wider, because we have to help this group. Otherwise, we are really helping people in debt and further into poverty, and that really is not possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-22-tweedekamer-25.u52	I am also talking today about how to focus as much as possible in the knowledge that I do not think the perfect instruments are available at the moment. Of course, the fact that nothing happens is simply not true at all. The excise duty there I hear Mr Klaver very critically about... is indeed relevant to a lot of working people who are still dependent on their car. The energy tax is relevant. Look at what the previous cabinet has done before at the fixed foot: that discount on the energy bill is for everyone. That's hundreds of euros, Mr. Clover. I know a lot of people don't spit in there. Mr President, I see Mr Azarkan at the microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-22-tweedekamer-25.u53	Thank you. Mr Azarkan, DENK, and then Mrs Van der Plas.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-22-tweedekamer-25.u54	Mr Van Weyenberg can see very well, because he sees who is standing here all the time. I have a question. Is Mr Van Weyenberg of D66 prepared to look at the measures, even if they cost more than the 2.8 billion budget?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-22-tweedekamer-25.u55	There's no free money. I am always open to suggestions in a debate, but I always ask myself how we are going to pay for it. Because I don't think free money is a very promising option. I'm always open to good ideas; I'm going to make a few suggestions myself that I don't know how they fit in.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-22-tweedekamer-25.u56	When I read the coalition agreement and the CPB bill, I felt that free money existed for the cabinet. It's all in the state debt, it's not gonna be repaid for 30, 40 years, and it's gonna be huge. So I find that difficult. In that sense, I am asking a serious question. Is it possible to talk to D66 only about increasing, reducing or other measures involving those 2.8 billion? Or is there also serious talk about increasing the amount of that package to 4 billion, because we see that groups of people are not being reached and because we see that in a number of ways that is really too thin?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-22-tweedekamer-25.u57	I don't think there's any more free money available right now. Of course, I'm not ruling out that this isn't the last conversation we're having. If it gets worse, it would also be my proposal to look at more general things such as healthcare or income tax, because I always find that easier and better targeted measures. But I'm just gonna look at every proposal, including yours, on its merits. I will look at the question of cover, but Mr Azarkan knows a bit about me.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-22-tweedekamer-25.u58	Mrs. Van der Plas, BBB. I think you'd seen it, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-22-tweedekamer-25.u59	No, I didn't see that one. That's how you see it. My bad. I apologize.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-22-tweedekamer-25.u60	Oh, no! Mrs. Van der Plas.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-22-tweedekamer-25.u61	I wonder whether Mr Van Weyenberg realizes that the people we are talking about are the people who run our country, apart from the low incomes that can at least count on some help. Those are the masons, the road workers, the cleaning staff, the care staff, the shopkeepers, the carpeters. Everything in this room is made by those people. That's just a very large group of people. I hear Mr Klaver saying: I taste an open attitude. Well, I don't taste an open posture at all. All I can taste is that there is a bit of a twist around it and it is said at the end: when it gets worse, we can still talk about it. But for those people, it's too late if it gets worse. Not for us.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-22-tweedekamer-25.u62	But that is also why it was quite right that the cabinet did not sit on its hands, did not wait for the Spring note.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Of course, Mrs Van der Plas is quite right about that. But the cabinet is also honest about the fact that it is not so that no one will notice any more. Mrs Van der Plas also realizes this, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-22-tweedekamer-25.u63	The realization just doesn't get through to D66, I guess. I know D66s often have higher incomes. They have the Tesla's and the solar panels. But that doesn't apply to a lot of people. Millions of people don't have that money at all. Millions of people are now wondering whether their child can still go to sports, whether they can turn on the heating, whether they can still go to work by car, or whether they can still buy food. That's just a tough reality. I would so like that awareness to sink in. That's millions of people in the Netherlands. I am not even talking about the AOWs and pensioners, whose pensions have not been indexed for years. I always have the idea, I don't know if that's what they are at D66 that they live in some kind of ivory tower or bubble. And, of course, that's not true.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-22-tweedekamer-25.u64	I always find it a bit annoying when someone says they have some kind of monopoly: "I know what it's like, but you don't know that." You have no idea about me, about my background and about the people I'm talking to. You really don't have to tell me how intense it is. I'm speaking to these people, too. To be honest, I do take a little offense that you are acting like none of us would feel that at all. I come across people who ask me, "How the hell am I gonna pay for this?" So this is really pissing me off. The reality is that it is a good thing that this cabinet has not waited for all the budgetary rules and that it is making billions more available. But I'm being honest. It's not like people don't notice because of it. That's part of that story, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-22-tweedekamer-25.u65	You don't have to get mad at me, because I'm just asking a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-22-tweedekamer-25.u66	Through the chairman, please, both of you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-22-tweedekamer-25.u67	Well, you...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-22-tweedekamer-25.u68	No, Mrs Van der Plas has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-22-tweedekamer-25.u69	Apologies, Mr. Chairman. People don't have to get mad at me, because I'm just asking a question. I say, "I have the idea that." You can simply deny or confirm that. There's no need for anger. It is also said: I really know what that is like, because we speak to those people too. But it's not about talking to those people; it's about doing something for those people. That is my question, also in connection with Mr Klaver and Mr Azarkan: is D66 really prepared to look at it with an open eye and say now 'Yes, we should indeed do something about it'?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-22-tweedekamer-25.u70	Yes. In fact, the cabinet that is supported by my group is doing a great deal about it, precisely because we think so. The cabinet has released almost EUR 3 billion extra, after the previous EUR 3 billion. I really think that's right. No one here says, "Nothing's wrong; just wait and see." No one's saying that at all. The question is always: what can be done, how will you pay for it, and what measures can be taken quickly? The measures I am thinking of first could all only be adopted next year. Those are the questions and also the struggles we stand for. But I think the whole room sees how people get hit hard.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-22-tweedekamer-25.u71	Finally, Mrs van der Plas.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-22-tweedekamer-25.u72	We wonder how to pay it, but half of the Netherlands wonders how they are going to pay the bills. I think we really do have the opportunity to be more generous in this. It was said "free money is not there." I see a bag of EUR 60,000 million, EUR 60 billion, for a climate fund and a nitrogen fund. Maybe there's something there. There have been proposals for this from the opposition before. So that's not free money. Money's already been booked. We can move into money to act generously now with regard to the greatest need for ordinary men and women. Again, those are the people who keep our country running.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-22-tweedekamer-25.u73	Again, that is why it is good that billions are being released and that no decision has been taken in a few months' time. But one more thing about these climate funds. If there is another great lesson, that is that we are far too dependent on fossil energy, on energy and gas from Russia, and that we must get rid of it. As far as I am concerned, therefore, the urgency of these climate funds has not been reduced, but only increased, because the lesson is that we are still too dependent on Russian gas.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-22-tweedekamer-25.u74	I do think D66 is aware of what the pain points are, including in this package. That is why I would like to ask Mr Van Weyenberg a little more about what he said. He said that he would very much like to know what decisions could have been taken, and what the reasons are for not taking them. If he does not agree with the government's reasoning, it may well be that there is some room for manoeuvre in proposals that have not been adopted. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-22-tweedekamer-25.u75	I'm asking for now. My view is that the short-term feasibility here has been a very dominant part of the trade-off. I'll ask for the sequel, too. I don't know if there's gonna be a sequel. Even if things get worse, there will be limits to what you can do. But that is why I want to know what we all have in the toolbox, so that we can also decide as a Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-22-tweedekamer-25.u76	That indeed sounds like a sensible question. You could have done this, but you didn't; what are the reasons? I also hear Mr Van Weyenberg say that it is very good to suggest that it has not gone through. But with that one-time care allowance, it was not the execution. So I'm curious how he's going to deal with that now. That's not a question for now, because he wants to hear the answer first.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-22-tweedekamer-25.u77	I need the answer to the question first, as Mr Van Raan says before me.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-22-tweedekamer-25.u78	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-22-tweedekamer-25.u79	I still had some questions about the composition of the package and things I'm worried about. The first is about sustainability. A lot of people also want to make it more sustainable. One of the requirements for the ISDE grant for the gourmets is now that if you take measures, you often have to take two saving measures within one calendar year. I speak for a lot of people who say: I do want to do something, but professionals and materials are scarce; so I do not really know whether it is going to succeed in getting the people I want to hire the professionals, as Mrs van der Plas says. Shouldn't we look at that condition in the ISDE scheme? Because that is now an obstacle for the people who think: then I don't do the one either, because then I may not get a subsidy. I don't think that's exactly what we want. Mr. Chairman. Then I have four questions about the €800 energy allowance. They are very much in line with Mr Grinwis's questions. Minister Schouten's proposal states that up to 120% of the social minimum is included. Many municipalities have policies up to 130%. That's more than 10% theoretical. That sounds cold and businesslike, but that is about people with AOW, with a part-time job, for whom this arrangement is just not available. Why was the cabinet chosen for the 120% instead of the 130%, I would also like to say in line with Mr Grinwis' question. Regardless of whether you take 120% or 130%, I also get the signal that municipalities say that with the resources they get from the Cabinet, they cannot give €800 to anyone under 120%. I'd find that really unhappy. In fact, I don't want to. I want that €800 leading, because that is the most important measure in this package as far as my group is concerned. I want everyone who is entitled to it to be eligible for that €800. Does the government recognise the message from, for example, the municipality of Rotterdam that it cannot do so with these means? And does the cabinet agree with D66 that the amount of €800 should be leading here and that it really should be that we give it to those 800,000 households? We also need to be able to reach them; this will be a great challenge for the municipality. Mr. Chairman. Then more broadly: how much room is there for customization, for someone who comes to the municipality and who might not be able to do the letter, but who obviously lives in a very poorly isolated apartment, provides care for which he needs a car and really doesn't get around? How much room do municipalities have to deviate? Specifically, I ask for more attention to be paid to students. I know they don't normally fall under category assistance, but if you're really stuck in a dorm or having an apartment with someone else, are you eligible? Can you arrange that? Mr President, finally, people in debt restructuring. A fixed term amount shall be deducted. Well, then you're gonna have to pay for the fixed charges, but those fixed charges have gone up. Has any thought been given to a temporary reduction in that term amount? Does the Cabinet really want to look at this arrangement? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-22-tweedekamer-25.u80	Thank you. There is another interruption by Mr Alkaya, SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-22-tweedekamer-25.u81	I thought I'd wait until the end, because perhaps Mr Van Weyenberg himself would come up with it, but he didn't mention it: where did the money come from? This money for compensation seems to come with an accounting trick from the future and from all of us. It's a sum of all of us to all of us. It's unfocused at collecting and unfocused at publishing. That's not really solidarity, is it? Wouldn't it be much more logical and honest to leave that account with the people who can miss it, even now? D66 has said a lot about tackling, for example, power inequality. Should we not combine these two objectives?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-22-tweedekamer-25.u82	A motion from your group chairman has been adopted on the issue of power inequality to look at this in the spring note and also towards the summer. I'd love to. I'll tell them apart, because otherwise we'll charge the energy allowance to someone else. I think that the reasoning that the cabinet now chooses is very clear. The government suddenly makes a lot of extra money because of the higher gas price. So where we are talking in this debate on the one hand about people who are going to get into trouble, the government is walking into it. The fact that the government then uses that money, I think it's very sensible. I don't think it's a budget trick. She's putting in the money that's coming in the next two years to help people now. I think that's very sensible.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-22-tweedekamer-25.u83	Mr Alkaya, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-22-tweedekamer-25.u84	Finally. I can, of course, live with it in this case. At the same time, I noted that if the SP had proposed this, Mr Van Weyenberg would probably have said: this accounting trick is not good. He doesn't call it a trick right now, but in the normal course of things, it's kind of weird that you bring money out of the future. My question is very specific about the people who are currently lacking. It is indeed a package that we can now live with. That's what I reported. But for a lot of people, it's too little. If we also decide to ask for an additional contribution, a solidarity levy, from the people who can miss it, then on the other hand we can give something extra to the people who are struggling to make ends meet. So it also has to do with solidarity and the fair distribution of the account. That's dealing with power inequality. That's what the motion for a resolution was adopted for. That's what it's about. Does Mr Van Weyenberg agree with me that there should be an extra step on top of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-22-tweedekamer-25.u85	I am in favour of tackling capital inequality and increasing the tax burden on large assets in order, for example, to accommodate workers and pensioners. My party has been in favour of this for a long time. In all honesty, I am in favour of this, with or without what is happening now with energy prices. I'll keep it apart. By the way, if Mr Alkaya had proposed what the cabinet is doing now, I wouldn't have... I always object to something that is not covered. This is a cash drawer. That's nicely incorporated into the books. It's okay. It's okay. I think I had also responded to an amendment tabled by Mr Alkaya.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-22-tweedekamer-25.u86	Thank you, Mr. Van Weyenberg. Then I give the floor to Mr Azarkan van DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-22-tweedekamer-25.u87	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Two months ago, we debated the coalition agreement here with the Prime Minister. I heard the leader of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats say 'we want a positive and balanced purchasing power picture for all Dutch people' in response to the dramatic Nibud report which showed that no Dutchman was making any progress. I thought it was a risk at the time. In the meantime, conditions have deteriorated enormously. If energy and raw materials remain high for a longer time and world trade is affected by the war in Ukraine and the sanctions for Russia, then the Dutch economy is shrinking. In the worst case, inflation will rise to 9.5%. Purchasing power is down by 5.5%. The Netherlands Bank is even counting on an average price increase of 9.5% in the scenarios. The water is on the people's lips. If we do not act quickly, hundreds of thousands of Dutch people risk financially drowning. Especially for those who live on or below the minimum standard of living, it is all hands on deck. Mr. Chairman. Who are these people? Who are the people who are in trouble because of rising energy prices? Who are the people who get abdominal pain when they go to the store to buy food and see that the coffee price has risen 5%, that the bread has become more expensive again, that the gas at the pump is not payable? They see that the Belgian government does manage to bring the petrol prices back to €1.77 and that the Dutch government is unable to do so. Perhaps those are also the people who have long lost faith in the government. I just noticed that the turnout rate in a neighbourhood in Amsterdam was 6%. It's the people who didn't vote last Wednesday. It's the people who ask: who stands up for me when I'm having a hard time? Mr. Chairman. We've seen how different things can be. Because what did the Minister of Finance say when companies knocked on the door because of problems caused by the corona crisis? He said, "Whatever it takes, what it takes, we're gonna take care of it." Within no time, as the weather, EUR 50 billion was made available. This was given through RVO within a few weeks. But we have all seen the Prime Minister fighting like a lion for Unilever, for Shell and for other multinationals. He wanted to give them a $2 billion tax gift a year. That wasn't temporary. That wasn't for a year. That was forever. If you passed that on, that was net 60 or 70 billion. There was no one who believed in it anymore, but the Prime Minister continued to persevere. The conclusion is that this cabinet fights like a lion when it comes to multinationals and shareholders. But who fights for the people with the small wallet who get hit hard? Why doesn't this cabinet fight harder for the citizen with the small wallet? Mr. Chairman. My group welcomes the step taken by the cabinet on 11 March: reducing petrol excise duty by €0.17 to reduce VAT on gas and electricity by 12%, together with the energy surcharge of €800 for 10% of households. But it's really too skinny. If you look at the excessive rise in all these rates, of bread, of food, of gasoline, of gas, we could actually do even more. My group therefore proposes to raise this €800 to €1,200. It's possible. You can also apply it to that 130%. You can also think about agreeing with the municipalities that people will discuss that their energy bill has increased. That could be an addition to the reckoning. You can agree with the energy companies that they will have time to pay for it. Mr. Chairman. My party also proposes a very effective purchasing power measure for everyone: the VAT rate back to 19%. This leads to 2% more purchasing power and 2% less inflation. We also propose to increase the mileage fee to €0.38. Because it was not enough, it is not enough, and it will not be enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-22-tweedekamer-25.u88	Thank you, Mr. Azarkan. I shall then give the floor to Mr Ephraim of the Van Haga Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-22-tweedekamer-25.u89	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Of course, there is a humanitarian disaster in Ukraine at the moment. Citizens and entrepreneurs in the Netherlands are affected by this conflict in a completely different way. Rising fuel and energy prices are likely to plunge us into a new recession at any moment. The package presented by the cabinet to absorb the falling purchasing power is a start, but it is not enough. Fuel and energy prices remain historically high. That is also partly a choice of this cabinet. The Netherlands has the highest fuel prices in Europe. Even with the current reduction in excise duties, this is still the case. The car is very important to many people. I think Mr Azarkan was talking about carers. I agree with that. The price of fuel must therefore remain affordable. It is good that there is now a temporary reduction in excise duties, but is it not even time to give back Kok's infamous quarter permanently? Mr. Chairman. The taxation of energy is also high in the Netherlands. A VAT reduction is therefore good. It is strange that energy falls into the high VAT rate at all. As far as BVNL is concerned, the low rate is therefore a keeper. Does the Minister of Finance agree with me? They also receive an additional fee of €600. However, everyone is getting worse. This will probably not be enough, as previous speakers have mentioned. I would therefore like to hear from the Minister how the cabinet set the limit of about 120% of the minimum wage. Why isn't it 130% or 140%, for example? Doesn't a group of people just threaten to fall out of the boat? Mr. Chairman. It's not just households that are at stake. Entrepreneurs are also hit hard. Tuinders and fishermen stop. Transport companies have the biggest problems because there is no profit to be made. Is this the mercy blow after two disastrous years? Is the Minister aware of this? Are further measures being taken to this end? Mr. Chairman. BVNL itself also has a number of solutions to reduce purchasing power reductions and rising energy prices. As you have probably heard, we want the reduction of excise duty on fuel and VAT on energy to be permanent. In addition, we know that there are billions of gas left in Groningen. Finally, BVNL would like to ask the cabinet once again to gain more gas and to compensate the Groningers decently and adequately. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-22-tweedekamer-25.u90	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mrs Inge van Dijk, CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-22-tweedekamer-25.u91	Mr. Chairman. Today we are talking about the purchasing power of our inhabitants, a figure that depends on many factors, such as income, taxes and inflation, but also on changes in people's personal lives. The central question is simply: do you as a household at the end of your money or not have a month left? In other words, can you make a living? If we look outwards in the current uncertain situation, we see very clear differences. High fuel prices have a major impact in particular on people who depend on their cars to go to work, for example in regions with poor public transport. A kilometer fee of €0,19 doesn't make any difference. Similarly, the CNV calls for this to be increased. There are also increasing energy costs for people with variable energy contracts and poorly isolated homes. Inflation affects everyone, but some households are able to cope well, while others are completely failing financially. If you know this, what do you think of the package that's here? Some people say to me: you shouldn't compensate for anything; that forces people to accelerate sustainability. We certainly have to deal with our dependence on oil and gas, but we will never allow people to fall financially through the ice in a few months' time by forcing changes, especially if they cannot do anything about it. Because it has already been appointed: tenants depend on the landlord for sustainability. I am positive that the cabinet is going to help, but again I have difficulty with it is that it is apparently very complicated to support people purposefully, that we sometimes shoot with hail, that community money does not end up in those empty purses and that because of our system world we cannot do exactly what our world needs. For example, I am deeply concerned about the working poor, often also families with children. Last weekend's research shows that a group of around 800,000 low-income households is not eligible for generic compensation. That is a group of which a lot of people go from home every day to their boss and work hard to do their part. There are other groups that could get into trouble: students, entrepreneurs with high energy consumption, such as the bakery on the corner, but also sports accommodation might get into trouble. As can be seen from the latest CPB estimate, in which last week a scoop was added with an ink black recession scenario, we do not know which way it is going. But we do know that it will be very exciting for vulnerable groups. There is no point in the cabinet noticing in a few months' time that this is indeed the case and that it is only then that it is going to think about ad hoc measures, which in the short term will lead to problems of implementation. I would therefore call on the Cabinet to identify different vulnerable groups now, to develop different scenarios and plans and to take them seriously at the next budgetary moments. We also see a number of short-term opportunities for supporting vulnerable groups. Municipalities can help people, including through special assistance. But the ESC recently found, for example, that a large proportion of the working poor do not use it: they do not know whether they are ashamed. Does the Minister recognize this? If so, what solutions does it envisage? Imagine if everyone knows how to find these arrangements; is it enough to make ends meet, or is there a need for an extra safety net, such as some sort of TONK scheme that we had for entrepreneurs during the corona crisis? Also think of speeding up the relaxation of the municipal policy on gifts, such as the bag with groceries. A lot of towns have already done that. This makes it easier for us in society to help each other. What can the Cabinet do to speed this up? The coalition agreement states that we want extra-wage limits to be stretched. However, this requires legislation. How's that going? Many older people do not receive the income support they are entitled to, for example through limited information exchange between administrations, but also because they do not know that they are entitled to anything. That is simply a missed opportunity. The following question: can the cabinet also improve this in the short term? We are also pleased that attention is being paid to supporting the islands, but why aren't we doing something for the CAS islands? Mr. Chairman. It is a question of whether people can make ends meet and whether this package provides a sufficient basis for doing so. We may all become poorer in the future, but we have serious concerns about those vulnerable groups, such as the working poor. These groups should not become the child of the overcharge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-22-tweedekamer-25.u92	Thank you. There is an interruption by Mr Nijboer of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-22-tweedekamer-25.u93	Mrs Van Dijk has good critical questions to the cabinet. Compliments for that. I belonged to both Mr Grinwis and Mr Van Weyenberg to go to 130%, so to give the allowance of €800 to the people up to 130%. Is that what the CDA's for? That would, of course, mean that the budget should be increased, because it is now up to 120%.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-22-tweedekamer-25.u94	Indeed, I had already asked extensive questions about the municipalities and the implementation. This question had already been answered, so I thought I'd wait for the answer. It might actually be able to offer space.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-22-tweedekamer-25.u95	Mr Van Raan of the Animal Party also has an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-22-tweedekamer-25.u96	I like what Mrs Van Dijk says here: we will never allow groups to fall through the ice. I am very glad that she also mentioned the islands, the special communities in the Caribbean. She also mentioned an analysis of the groups. As far as Mrs Van Dijk is concerned, could this include the group of citizens affected by the premium affair? Those people are being hit twice now. Shouldn't something special happen for that too?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-22-tweedekamer-25.u97	I asked for an analysis of the "vulnerable groups." I can just imagine that this is a group that automatically falls into it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-22-tweedekamer-25.u98	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Heinen of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-22-tweedekamer-25.u99	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Everything's getting more expensive. Energy prices are rising and our purchasing power is under pressure. A lot of people are worried about that, and rightly so. Energy prices have been rising for a long time. That is why we adopted a package last year in the General Financial Reviews Chamberwide to dampen the energy bill somewhat. Reference has already been made to the tax rebate and the energy tax. That is a package of EUR 3 billion. That is an unprecedented amount, for unprecedented times as well. Even that doesn't turn out to be enough. We are now also dealing with this terrible war in Ukraine. First of all, of course, that affects the people there. It's horrible and the images we see are really going through marrow and bone. As a young father of a family, I can't really imagine what it's like to have to run from bombs and grenades that fall around your house, while as a country you're just striving for freedom and happiness. It's unbelievable. There is also a certain inconvenience, because we are talking about purchasing power here, while there is, of course, enormous suffering there. At the same time, people are also affected by an increasing energy bill, which they may not be able to pay. That's pretty intense, too. That does not change the suffering there, but we, as representatives of the Dutch people, must also look at it. The reality is that here too the energy bill will continue to increase as a result of the conflict in Ukraine. It is not the cause, because that energy bill has been increasing for some time now, as was mentioned earlier by my colleague, Mr Oppenheim, but it will put further pressure on purchasing power. That could get people in trouble, and we shouldn't let that happen. We must do everything we can to prevent households from falling over, simply because energy prices are popping through the roof. That is why I am pleased that there is now a package here with a reduction in VAT on the energy bill, a reduction in excise duty on the pump, an increase in aid to vulnerable households through municipalities and municipalities. The fair story is also that we cannot continue to compensate forever. That is why we must continue to invest in energy independence. We must move away from Russian gas and invest in renewable energy, hydrogen and nuclear energy. I really think that, in the long term, that is the solution to be independent of these countries, of these extreme fluctuations and of the consequences for the energy bill. It is also often suggested that there are climate funds, so let us use them to compensate for purchasing power. I get it, because you see big funds with a lot of money there. At the same time, we also need it to invest in that independence, so that we do not spend every year in this discussion. So we have to do both: reduce the burden now and invest in independence for later. Finally, Mr President. A motion has been tabled in an earlier debate, and I shall come to my point about abolishing the jubelton. That's actually tax-free for one's own home. In the coalition agreement it was already abolished, but a little later in time. They asked, "Can't that be done sooner?" We had the impression that this couldn't be done technically before. That proved to be technically possible earlier, and that is why the abolition has also been brought forward. With that same look, in view of this debate, I look at the coalition agreement and I see an increase in unpaid travel expenses in the future. This debate also referred to the importance of this unpaid travel allowance: the tax exemption per kilometre. My question to the cabinet would be: can we perhaps bring it forward, if that is technically possible? The jubelton's making money. We would thus be able to cover the increase in the unpaid travel allowance in the form of intertemporal travel expenses, as it is called in fine official jargon. So not so much inexpensive, but perhaps cheaper fuel. Because of course the mileage allowance also applies to the dv, you could also say: from jubelton to jubelwagon. Although that, I think, is failing the people who incur costs for transport. It was also rightly said in this debate that people depend on the car or the train to go to work. I think it is important that attention should be paid to this. I'm at the end of my speech. I see a number of colleagues have questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-22-tweedekamer-25.u100	Sure. First of all, Mr Tony van Dijck of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-22-tweedekamer-25.u101	I'm wondering something. We can all remember that Mrs Hermans was here in the debate on the declaration of government and said: a positive and proportionate purchasing power image for everyone. That is a promise made by the VVD in this coalition agreement. Is that another empty promise from the VVD, as we've seen so many? Or is that gonna happen?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-22-tweedekamer-25.u102	This was the starting point of the coalition agreement. So that's right. When it was presented last year, we said to each other: we must strive for a balanced purchasing power image that is positive. Then, in the debate on the coalition agreement, we saw the image that they threatened to go backwards, mainly among AOW's. It has been said that we must compensate for this in line with the coalition agreement. It has also been said: because we are striving for a balanced government agreement, we should actually look at all the groups. They threatened to get back on the zero line, while we were striving together for a positive purchasing power picture. Honesty also commands us to say that in the meantime reality has changed tremendously. It took longer than we all wanted, but when we were negotiating the coalition agreement, of course, we could never have imagined what is happening in Europe now. Really your naughtiest dreams come true! That also has an impact on purchasing power here. As a result, the image we had in the government agreement for inflation and purchasing power may not be feasible. Of course, we're trying to do everything we can. Last year we gave EUR 3 billion relief. In addition, 2.8 billion will be added this year. So this is almost EUR 6 billion reduction in costs to compensate for this falling purchasing power. Whether it will be enough, we will really have to keep monitoring throughout the year.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-22-tweedekamer-25.u103	Mr. Tony van Dijck for an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-22-tweedekamer-25.u104	That is why people no longer have faith in politics! You promised a positive, proportionate purchasing power image for everyone less than two months ago. Then the Nibud numbers were all in red, so that was a tough promise. Now we're two months away. The latest CPB figures say: loss of purchasing power of 2.7%, and if Klaas Knot is right, it goes to 5% to 6% purchasing power loss. Already before the declaration of government, the water was on the lips of many people, many households, millions of families. And you just push them under! You are simply saying that we have made 6 billion available and we need to see if that is enough. You're making 60 billion available for climate and all nitrogen genes. But the people who are now underwater, who are gasping for breath, you have nothing left, less than 10% of the 60 billion! So the question is: are you willing to do more for that group? You can see that it is not enough. And the question is: are you willing to have these purchasing power figures passed on to the CPB to see where we stand now?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-22-tweedekamer-25.u105	We had municipal elections not that long ago. In that context, I have passed a lot of doors and talked to a lot of people. The image Mr Tony van Dijck sketches here, I honestly do not recognize. I have seen in many conversations the concerns of people who said: this is really going to be a lot, can I still pay? At the same time speaking is also a lot of people who said: I understand that the government cannot compensate everything. We're gonna feel all this. I am also really willing to see where I can reduce myself, but I am also very happy with the compensation that the government gives. I think this is a battle we're fighting together. We need to see what society can carry and what we, as a government, can do about compensation. Can we compensate for everything? I don't think that's gonna work. But can we do everything we can to ease the pain as much as possible? I think so. If we look then... We had the coalition agreement. Not so long after the presentation of that coalition agreement, we have been Chamber-wide in the General Financial Reviews, and I am pleased to see that a package of measures of EUR 3 billion has been enforced to reduce the tax on the energy bill. Now we see that this is not enough and we are adding another EUR 3 billion for VAT and excise duties and giving municipalities the opportunity to compensate households. If I answer Mr Tony van Dijck's question whether we are prepared to do something extra: yes, and we have proved that, because we have already done something extra.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-22-tweedekamer-25.u106	Mr Heinen talks about becoming independent of Russia in our gas supply, but it is precisely his party that has made us dependent on Russia in our gas supply. The Groninger gas field was closed, despite the fact that those people still have no money. Now he calls for sustainability and all kinds of green plans, climate plans. But those plans are going to cost a lot of money if they are already technically possible, because there are still a lot of questions there and it is going to take an awful long time before it is realized. In the meantime, there are people with a towering energy bill. There are two very easy solutions for that. You mentioned the compensation of the energy tax, but that is now specific to electricity. We can do that on power. And opening up the Groningen gas field to regain independence from Russia and self-sufficiency in our gas. Would he be willing to do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-22-tweedekamer-25.u107	Let me just say one thing. Mr Jansen says that there are easy solutions. I wish! Of course we would have. There are no such easy solutions. It's incredibly difficult. It really takes a lot of things. It requires both compensation and investment in independence. Then the link is made by Mr Jansen with Groningen. Groningen was never a choice about independence. Mr Van Weyenberg just pointed out that. It was about the safety of the Groningen. That's why we decided to get rid of that gas. I do not think you are arguing for the re-purification of Groninger gas, and if you do, I would be happy to hear it, but I would invite you to go to Groningen and talk to the people there.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-22-tweedekamer-25.u108	That was your last...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-22-tweedekamer-25.u109	I would nevertheless like to answer the question, because it is also suggested that investing in sustainability that we do will lead to higher prices. I'm really fighting that. I think that is important for several reasons. Firstly, for a cleaner country, and secondly, for that independence. If you can generate your energy yourself, with renewables, but also with nuclear energy, there are differences of opinion; I myself am in favour of it, then you are independent and you don't even need the gas anymore. We will need gas in the meantime and that gas should not come from Russia now. We're gonna have to import that liquid. That is why I do not agree with the freezing of gas prices, because I think that has a real impact on the import of liquid gas. Then ships just turn around in the North Sea, but that's just like sidesteps. Eventually, we're gonna have to get rid of the gas. So if you're saying we should just keep using the gas, then we just disagree.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-22-tweedekamer-25.u110	Thank you. Finally, Mr Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-22-tweedekamer-25.u111	I think it is a good proposal, and I did it myself to increase the unpaid travel allowance of €0,19 to say €0,30 to €0,35. The VVD always asks me about cover. The VVD proposed as cover to abolish the jubelton a year earlier. I think that's gonna get us $8 million next year. I was wondering how much that mileage charge could go up. Will it be €0,195? How does the VVD see that? There really is 400 million in the coalition agreement against the 8 million, so I hope the VVD doesn't make people happy with a dead sparrow. If it's really just a tithe of pennies, then of course it doesn't get us anywhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-22-tweedekamer-25.u112	It is not a dead sparrow anyway, because that travel allowance is going up. That's just what the coalition agreement says. As a rule of calculation, you could use €0.01 per 100 million, so it's a big amount of money. Rather abolishing the jubelton... Mr Nijboer had another remark, but outside the microphone. He will be able to make it in his response to my speech. I'm gonna finish this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-22-tweedekamer-25.u113	I hear "8 million."
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-22-tweedekamer-25.u114	I hear groaning, but people at home don't belong to that. That's kind of...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-22-tweedekamer-25.u115	It's annoying.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-22-tweedekamer-25.u116	...disturbing. "Irritant," those are your words, but it doesn't help in my speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-22-tweedekamer-25.u117	I call Mr Heinen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-22-tweedekamer-25.u118	I'm just gonna get my answer back. That travel allowance is going up anyway. I do think that should be covered. If it is technically possible to do so sooner, it must of course be covered. I am thinking of the jubelton; that proposal has been made before. If you abolish it earlier, I think it's gonna pay an additional 7 million a year. I've seen cumulative amounts of about 160 million. The Ministry of Finance can choose to cover what we call in official jargon intertemporally. That's a nice word for scrabble, but it's a common system. You can't do it too often, but you can apply it in exceptional situations. That could be a cover here. If there are better proposals for cover, I am, of course, open to that. But first let's see if it's technically possible at all. That was ultimately the reason for the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-22-tweedekamer-25.u119	Thank you. The last interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-22-tweedekamer-25.u120	It says 8 million in 2024, but I understand that Mr Heinen wants to substantially increase the unpaid travel allowance and that it should not be done with the 8 million.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-22-tweedekamer-25.u121	No, in the coalition agreement, 400 million is ultimately reserved for this purpose. I think you can increase it about €0.04, so roughly from €0.19 to €0.23. That goes in two steps: first 200 million and then 400 million. So it will go almost in cents: first to €0,21 and then to €0,23. I think you should take those steps forward. If you see it in pennies, of course it's a small amount. I realize that. If you see what an average commuter is about to travel to work, it can be about €50 in the month. Of course, that's a lot of money.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-22-tweedekamer-25.u122	Thank you. You're out of interruptions, Mr. Clover. I'm sorry about that. Then I will go to Mr Van Raan of the Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-22-tweedekamer-25.u123	Thank you, Mr President. This contribution is also on behalf of BET1. From this place to Mrs. Simons. Mr. Chairman. In a debate on poverty policy, we must not forget that the poor people of Ukraine are being bombarded with weapons and ammunition that are partly paid for by our gas and oil consumption. In the Netherlands we import 15% to 20% of our gas from Russia. The contradiction is: we have a Minister for Poverty Policy, but we are widening the gap between rich and poor by reducing fuel taxes. The question is why more than a third of the burden relief reaches 20% of the most prosperous Dutch people. Another bizarre story: we want to be less dependent on Russia for our fuel supply, partly because of the effect on purchasing power, but we make gas and diesel cheaper for everyone and dampen the saving incentive. Mr. Chairman. This is a sign of the ambiguity of this cabinet policy. If we really wanted to work on energy saving, we could apply the VAT zero rate to double-glass, heat pump, solar panels, which is already going to happen, but we can speed up solar batteries and insulation. We would then be taxing kerosene and large consumers of natural gas would not get a discount, but would have to pay extra. So the fourth Rutte cabinet only widens the gap between rich and poor, and that is irresponsible. So much for the criticism, now some solutions. In order to increase income security for citizens, there must be a policy of income to the benefit of people with low incomes, such as an accelerated increase in the minimum wage and an increase in assistance. But we also believe that there should be a solidarity levy for the lowest incomes. This should be a solidarity levy for fossil fuels, in particular, which should consist of the profits that are now being made on oil and gas. From this solidarity fund we can support the vulnerable. Protecting the interests of the weakest against the rights of the strongest is quite logical. Mr. Chairman. In order to protect both the development of the purchasing power of low-income people and to dampen rising energy prices, we can do another thing. Not only can we accelerate the energy transition, but we can also accelerate the food transition, thus breaking our addiction to fossil energy. In this way we can once and for all say goodbye to the rollercoaster at energy prices that organize oilsheiks and oligarchs. Fossil fuels are also so precious because energy is wasted on animal feed and the transport of immense quantities of animals that we keep for producing food for people using fertilizer. We also depend once again on imports of feed maize, sunflower oil and sunflower scrap from Ukraine. If we skip the gastrointestinal tract of animals in our food supply, we can be produced directly for people, and we are no more dependent than is needed from other countries. It is therefore necessary to speed up the phasing-out of livestock farming. We can also produce without fertilizer if we help farmers in the conversion process. A phasing-out plan is needed and compensation needs to be arranged. Let me give you another example. In ornamental farming, energy is wasted massively while a lot of poison is also used. Entrepreneurs in ornamental farming must be accompanied in a transition to the cultivation of human food. Mr. Chairman. I'll sum up. We should stop sponsoring SUV drivers, and so should Putin. We're going to protect people with the lowest incomes from the law of the strongest. We're going to slow down in every way. We are no longer going to waste 90% of scarce cereals through the gastrointestinal tract of animals in intensive livestock farming. We stop tulip bulbs and all kinds of other energy-wasted ornamental plants. And we're going to grow food for people in our own region in our own greenhouses. Mr. Chairman. The war teaches us that we must stop fighting against nature and animals, but that we must respect all life, wherever it is in the world. We should stop sawing the branch we're sitting on. And if there ever was a time to choose a different course, then it is now. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-22-tweedekamer-25.u124	Thank you. I give the floor to Mrs Den Haan of the Den Haan Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-22-tweedekamer-25.u125	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Since the outbreak of the war between Russia and Ukraine, like most likely everyone else, I've had a knot in my stomach. First of all, I am concerned about all those people from Ukraine who have had to leave that house and fireplace, who are in fear of their father, son or man fighting for the country. Of course, I also care about all those people who have lost a loved one through the war, and I sympathize with them. We're worried about the people who are still out there and have no way out. A lot of older people stay on base and have a really hard time. But we are also concerned about people in the Netherlands, who no longer know how to make ends meet because of high gas prices and inflation. And of course, we all notice that life has become more expensive. I read somewhere in an interview that at least it is a bright spot that 22 billion was saved in the Netherlands during the corona crisis. That's because people couldn't spend a lot of money anymore. In any case, the point is that this savings have been made by people who already have little money to worry about. And especially those households where the risk of poverty is very high, and those households that can hardly make ends meet, are particularly vulnerable to rising gas prices and inflation. These people are already having trouble paying their bills. They often live off the food bank and often heat only one room in their home. These people don't have a piggy bank to fall back on. We are talking, for example, about elderly people with only AOW or with a small supplementary pension, or about people in welfare or other benefits. We are also talking about a group that works, but only earns just enough to get by. And how can you do that if you're already going to the food bank and you've already nibbled at everything, when everything becomes more expensive and more expensive? What else do you have to save on? People just don't manage to cut their spending anymore. These people don't care about the water. No, they're drowning already. Of course, I do not think that the package is enough either, and I would also like to see more targeted measures, but I would like to thank the Cabinet for the letter containing the four additional purchasing power measures announced. Can the Cabinet outline a timetable? How can the proposed measures be speeded up under points 1 and 4? Can the Minister for Social Affairs, in consultation with municipalities, ensure that all those who need and are eligible for these additional measures are proactively approached? One would like no one to remain under the radar, because there are a lot of people whose income situation is taboo, but also people who are low-literate and probably will not report on their own. Then I have one more question about the Caribbean part of our Kingdom. Corona has greatly increased poverty there. I understood from Amnesty that in Curaçao alone half of the inhabitants depend on food stamps. Does the cabinet have a picture of how many households there are sinking through the floor? What is the timetable for using the 5 million available for additional purchasing power measures? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-22-tweedekamer-25.u126	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Dassen van Volt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-22-tweedekamer-25.u127	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Unfortunately, the recovery after the pandemic goes hand in hand with historical inflation. As a result, there is now a decline in purchasing power, which particularly affects people with the lowest incomes. The war in Ukraine is painfully confronting us with our dependence on Russian gas. The pain in the Netherlands is mainly felt by the people with the lowest incomes. 800,000 households are unable to pay the energy bill. With still huge increases in energy prices, this group will also be under increasing pressure. The cabinet therefore rightly wants to compensate households. But would it have been possible to arrive at a finer package? This package does not bring much money to the incomes that it needs so badly at the moment. It also discourages higher incomes and companies to become more energy efficient. Recently, the Minister of Finance responded to this criticism by saying that there are no more buttons to turn on. If at the moment there are no more buttons to turn on, then we will have to create them with each other, because it cannot be that we reconcile ourselves with this structural inequality, especially now that people under pressure from the present circumstances are getting even closer. This topicality obliges us and the cabinet to maximise creativity and decisiveness. We must do everything we can to prevent us from leaving people in the cold again next winter. Mr. Chairman. A few points. Can the minimum wage be increased faster? How does the Minister view that? What period could possibly be postponed? What are the possibilities in that? We can also look at tax discounts and surcharges. For example, we can increase the rent and care allowance. I believe that was discussed earlier. I'd like to join in on that. How does the Cabinet view the increase in rent and care allowances? One in five property owners can't afford to make his house more sustainable. Now households have to advance the money for sustainability and only get part of it back afterwards. Is the Minister prepared to use subsidies to help those who are unable to finance it at the moment? Is the cabinet also willing to make a rent reduction to force tenants to make it more sustainable, so that people who are already in a poorly isolated apartment can be better helped? This is also about solidarity. More and more people can't make ends meet, while the power differences in the Netherlands are getting bigger and bigger. Does the Minister also see any chance of taking steps here, such as a solidarity levy? Mr. Chairman. I would like to hear the government's views on the proposals to meet people with the lowest incomes directly and purposefully. I am counting and hoping for the creativity that is needed to meet the people who are or will be in trouble as much as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-22-tweedekamer-25.u128	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Eppink, JA21.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-22-tweedekamer-25.u129	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Last week Klaas Knot of De Nederlandsche Bank sketched a black purchasing power image for our citizens. I know Mr Knot as a sober Groninger and as optimistic, for example, when he said last year that high inflation would be temporary. But reality caught up with him very quickly. Knot mentioned inflation rates that could rise to 9.5% this year. On average, purchasing power for Dutch people is falling by 2.7%, if not more. Drivers think in abstract purchasing power images, but these are hard realities for ordinary citizens. Families can't afford their energy bills, their groceries and their full tank anymore. So there's work to be done for the cabinet. JA21 has a few proposals for this. The first proposal concerns VAT and excise duties on petrol and diesel. Under the Rutte Cabinets, VAT was increased twice. 60% of what the Dutch pay to the pump flows directly back into the state treasury. Now there are also exploding fuel prices. Of course, the war in Ukraine is worsening this trend all the more, but we must not forget that the Netherlands had the most expensive petrol price in the world before the war in Ukraine, after Hong Kong. Mr. Chairman. The cabinet hits a series of cuts from April 1st, although they come a little late. In Belgium, however, fuel taxes have been reduced. Germany works with a maximum price of €2 per litre. My question to the cabinet is: why does the Dutch cabinet not take the same measures? As far as JA21 is concerned, the cabinet will focus on compensating citizens. JA21 proposes to reduce VAT on energy and fuel to 0% as soon as possible and to use all additional revenue from VAT for the State this year to reduce the burden on citizens. Our second proposal is the climate and nitrogen fund. JA21 finds it incomprehensible that, under the current circumstances, EUR 60 billion should be earmarked for a climate and nitrogen fund. The cabinet needs to review the financial framework of the coalition agreement, which is now a hole cheese.............................................................................................................................................................................................. This can be done, for example, through a review of the climate fund, with a leading role for our energy and food security. There is also more time to look critically at the nitrogen approach and to finally take soil measurements, which give a more precise picture. Now many believe to know without sufficient measurement. Former PvdA Minister Ronald Plasterk wrote that nitrogen policy did not need 25 billion euros, but 25 million. Well, that's a whole different picture. Mr. Chairman. I call on the cabinet to promote energy security more actively. This can be done in the short term by isolating old houses, by not abruptly stopping the extraction of gas in Groningen and by keeping modern coal power stations open. In the longer term, energy security is possible through nuclear energy, to generate electricity cheaply and reliably. Germany and Belgium therefore leave some existing nuclear power stations open. Mr. Chairman. Food prices are rising, while the cabinet intends to close many of our farms. That is completely unwise. Mr President, I will conclude. A rosy purchasing power policy requires a realistic, affordable and feasible turnaround. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-22-tweedekamer-25.u130	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Stoffer, SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-22-tweedekamer-25.u131	Mr. Chairman. All the concerns that we have identified today do not fall into the terrible circumstances in which many people in Ukraine find themselves. Colleagues have already referred to this. The loss of purchasing power is annoying, but first of all we have to support them. I find it heartwarming to see that many people, entrepreneurs, charities, associations and churches are ready to help people in and out of Ukraine. Mr. Chairman. You'll only be one of the 550,000 families living in energy poverty, getting an increase in the energy bill of hundreds of euros on your plate or depending on the car for your low-paid job in the region, and having to pay extra tens of euros per tank. It is good that the cabinet is trying to do something about this, but in the opinion of the SGP it can and should be much more targeted. I'll mention a few things. Incomes on or just above the social minimum can get €800. But I'm pretty worried about the group that's just out of the boat. If you earn €1 above that limit, you can just miss €800. My question is: do municipalities have the freedom to provide tailor-made services and, if so, are they able to do so? I can imagine households getting more step-by-step as they earn less. My question is whether the municipalities are actively encouraged to do so. At the same time, the SGP shares the desire to limit disparities between municipalities. My question is this: if the things I have just mentioned are addressed, how will the differences between the municipalities be secured? Mr. Chairman. Increasing energy prices also affect many companies, for example in greenhouse horticulture. Is the Minister talking to the affected sectors? Does the Minister consider, for example, guarantees or loans? And how do companies get extra incentives to make them more sustainable? Of course, the cabinet cannot compensate for everything and everyone, but smart tailor-made work can and must keep companies alive. Mr. Chairman. It is a good thing that the cabinet is trying not to let this package lead to public debt, but at the same time we must also note that not all the budgetary rules are being complied with. And that's not the first time. In the spring note, more gaps in the budget must be closed. My question to the Minister is whether she can promise that the budgetary rules will be complied with. This also applies to the Court's budget law, to which a number of colleagues have referred. That's what I'm doing here. Although excise duties will be reduced next Friday, we have not yet seen a legislative proposal. I understand that the cabinet needs time, but the increase in the energy bill is not last week's. We therefore certainly share the interruption that was taking place at the PvdA and the response to it. Now the Chamber is actually placed in front of an accomplished fact. All measures have been presented as final decisions. My question is: why was the Chamber not included in this huge expenditure?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-22-tweedekamer-25.u132	Thank you. There is an interruption by Mr Van Raan, Party for the Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-22-tweedekamer-25.u133	A question for Mr Stoffer. He rightly mentions the problem of horticulture, greenhouse horticulture and ornamental farming. It is right that he should draw attention to this from his point of view, but isn't this also the time for the SGP to take a critical look at the question of which ornamental plants the Netherlands and the world actually need? Is that the moment now for the SGP?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-22-tweedekamer-25.u134	I heard Mr Van Raan's speech earlier. From his point of view, it was in itself quite a nice argument, but I thought: what does that help now? I would say: let us now tackle the problem of today. People and companies have huge energy bills; we need to do that now. The other question, about what would be good to provide the world with food, belongs in particular to the LNV committee. Let's have that debate there. I do not think it is wrong to think this through, but it is also a question of supply and demand. If there is a demand for certain ornamental plants, then companies will also produce them. I believe that this debate is not here now, but it is a short answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-22-tweedekamer-25.u135	You're out of interruptions, Mr. Van Raan. You continue your argument, Mr. Stoffer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-22-tweedekamer-25.u136	Okay, Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna wrap it up. If the cake gets smaller, there's no way we can give everyone a bigger piece. I think that's a truth like a cow, but we can divide the cake differently. The rich in our country are warm with their electric car, heat pumps and solar panels, but the less fortunate don't even dare to think about that kind of thing. The rising energy and fuel prices are hitting them particularly hard. That is precisely why the low and middle incomes need to be helped. My question is whether it is true what we read, namely that one third of the package reaches the richest 20% of the people in our country. If so, the SGP would prefer us to increase tax relief on energy instead of reducing VAT on energy. In this way, low incomes, households using less energy, are making more progress. My question is whether the cabinet shares that view. I am considering a motion on that point, but of course I am very interested in the reaction of the cabinet. I'll leave it at that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-22-tweedekamer-25.u137	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Van der Plas, BBB.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-22-tweedekamer-25.u138	Thank you. President and inhabitants of the Netherlands. Many Dutch people have sleepless nights about rising prices. Rent, petrol, gas, electricity, food: everything that is essential to life becomes and is already priceless for many people. This is not only for low incomes, but also for middle incomes, a group which is often already not entitled to anything in terms of bonuses and so on. If we do not take this group now, this large group of hard-working Dutch people will be the new poor. Think of our care workers, the masons, the bus drivers, the shopkeepers, the road workers, the truck drivers, you name it. In short, the people who keep our country running. We, the MPs with a salary of almost €120,000 a year, can show off on Twitter that they have a Tesla and solar panels and can live cheaply, but the average income of a Dutchman is just about €2,500 per month, three times as little as our income. Modestity fits us into this crisis. In the Netherlands, about 9 million people are employed. Approximately 3 million people have AOW and often a small pension. Only 1.3% of people in the Netherlands earn more than one tonne a year. We belong to that small percentage of lucky people. We're the happy few. A Tesla, a heat pump and solar panels are simply not payable for millions of people in the Netherlands. If you're red, you can't do green. At the moment, many people are facing the water and are facing the choice. Can my kid still go to soccer? Can I still take the car to work? Do I turn on the heat? Am I gonna take a hot shower or am I gonna take a cold shower? Can I still run my groceries? Mr. Chairman. With inflation rising to 7%, the Netherlands is on the verge of a financial catastrophe for many of its inhabitants. The people with low and middle incomes, a large proportion of the AOW's and people with a pension - a pension that has not been indexed for years - are now the most affected by this. The possibilities for households to mitigate this increase in the cost of living are limited in the short term. If you could just make a living in 2021, and now every month is in red, €100 in red or more short, then the impact is huge. Then you end up in debt, with no perspective or opportunity to prevent it. In order to get a low income out of the debt situation, years are required. We also know from the figures that people who have little structural spending have a shorter life on average and are in poor health for longer. Mr. Chairman. We can already predict that that group is going to be much larger. Can the Minister outline this to us? Do we have a picture of how many people are at risk of getting into debt and how many people are falling back into their disposable income? Do we have an idea of what side effects this has in the shorter or longer term? Finally, Mr President. Let us realize that many Dutch people have sleepless nights, not only the lowest incomes but also the middle incomes. Is the Minister prepared to meet the large group with compensation? What are the options for freezing gas and energy prices? What are the possibilities of setting the VAT on the energy account, albeit temporarily, to zero? Why can't the fuel taxes go further down, and why not before? Is the cabinet also talking to employers' organisations to see how employers can possibly contribute to enlightenment for their employees? Are there opportunities for making public transport temporarily free, so that people who want and need to be able to leave their cars and go to work by train or bus? Mr. Chairman. The people who keep our country going are in need. It's our duty now to keep them going. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-22-tweedekamer-25.u139	Thank you. I shall now give the floor to Mr Jansen of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-22-tweedekamer-25.u140	Thank you, Madam President. I talked to an entrepreneur today who really doesn't like it anymore. For the past two years, he had to close his case for months at a time, and he has now accumulated extreme debts. And now, now that the weather is right, he's facing a more than twice the energy bill, a petrol price that went through the roof, sky-high inflation and priceless groceries and purchasing prices. This applies not only to this one entrepreneur; this applies to the whole of the Netherlands. If this continues, 2022 will be the year of poverty. The CPB warns of a possible very serious recession, with inflation rising to over 8% and purchasing power falling by more than 5%. These are abstract figures, but Dutch people have to deal with them daily, in the supermarket and at the petrol pump. The price increases have been much higher than the forecasts of the planning agencies. It's not a coincidence. It's the result of years of malpractice. We could have seen this coming a long time ago. It is also not a direct result of only the war in Ukraine. Inflation has already risen to record levels in the last few months of 2021. In 2018, my party leader predicted that the bizarre climate measures would cost more than 1,000 billion and that the bill would end up with the citizen. The inequality in our country has been increasing systematically for years as a result of the policies of VVD, CDA, D66, ChristenUnion, PvdA and GroenLinks. For among them and among them are also parties that are full of mouths about income inequality.... hardworking people are forced into poverty by a kind of blind faith in their climate religion. The gas price has increased five to ten times over the last year, depending on the daily price. As compensation Rutte offers people a discount on the tax on electricity, but 92% of the households in the Netherlands are heated with gas. Those people can't just buy a very expensive heat pump. Those people don't have any money for a new Tesla. For those people, Rutte has increased the gas tax by 176% over the last 12 years. It is the highest tax in Europe. You get the people who can afford it the least. In fact, the people with a small scholarship pay for the solar panels of GroenLinks-kamer members. It's disgusting to see. The climate nobility is hovering around in their fairytale palaces as the late aristocracy at the court of Versailles, while subsidising their decadent lifestyle with ever higher taxes on the proletariat. It is a parasitic upper class that has lost all connection to reality. Because the high prices are of course not a natural phenomenon that we cannot do anything about. No, the last twelve years have been marked by the milking out of the Dutch population. Rutte increased the high VAT to 21% and the low VAT to 9%. He introduced the landlord's tax, doubled his own risk in the care and increased his own contribution. Care premiums increased, tax storage of renewable energy was introduced, fuel taxes went up, the coal tax exemption went off, the AOW age increased to 67 years, pensions were no longer indexed, the basic exchange was abolished and the loan system was introduced, rent and house prices went through the roof, CO allowances were introduced and increased, and the Groninger gas field was closed. I can go on for a while. The Dutch have not chosen to shut down coal power stations, to build biomass plants with billions of subsidies, to plant windmills and solar fields everywhere, to shut down the gas field in Groningen or to bring 2 million immigrants here who all need houses. But that citizen will pay for it. We may end up in a new economic crisis. In the previous crisis, Rutte raised taxes across the board. Now I would like to know from the Minister whether she is planning the same thing for this crisis, which is possible, or whether she is prepared to radically reduce taxes, for example through the climate fund of 60 billion that has now been set up. That is the only real solution for all hardworking Dutch people who are going to be hit hard by this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-22-tweedekamer-25.u141	Thank you. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Omtzigt. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-22-tweedekamer-25.u142	Mr. Chairman. The situation is serious. DNB has a 9.5% inflation scenario. This destroys pensions, the system and purchasing power. If this package were to continue, it would be totally inadequate. So my first question to the cabinet is: are we going to have a purchasing power debate here every month? Or do we have ways to ensure that people do not fall acutely through certain soils? Mr. Chairman. The acute trigger was the energy bill. The people who really got into trouble were in the energy companies that went bankrupt. They were forced to switch and faced with usury rates, marketing rates. They were not allowed to buy energy against normal contracts. Answers from the then Secretary of State Yeşilgöz-Zegerius to parliamentary questions from me in November showed that there would be an investigation into this. Is that investigation done? Can people like an energy company go bankrupt just get a decent contract? It wasn't those people. What lessons do we learn from the energy market? Mr. Chairman. Then the package. I can agree with the excise duties. It is an emergency measure, but if the petrol is €0.40 cheaper in Belgium, then everyone below the Moerdijk goes to gas in Belgium. It is therefore possible for the cabinet to do so in the short term. We're going to talk about the VAT cut. But I want to talk today about the €200 in the bill that is now €800, which is going to get people below 120% of the social minimum. That's everybody on welfare. That's another 500,000 families. But who doesn't get it? The cleaner who cleans 40 hours a week and gets up at 6:00 a.m. and earns the minimum wage is excluded. Why was that chosen? Why have they chosen to pay out this money before the bill is dealt with here? The measure was announced in December. We just got the bill. It says €200. It's gonna be $800. Mr. Chairman. But how's that going? Is it about the year 2022 in which you have to have little income? We don't know. 2021 is not certain. Then it has to be about 2020. But someone can go up and down in the meantime. How are the self-employed? How does it go when you get paid, if you do have a lot of income, but you're left with a low amount? How's it going when you're up 2 bucks? This is going to be a performance drama, I tell you. I'd like some answers. I find it very unwise to implement the bill before it is dealt with here. In this way, we will no longer have to conduct the debate "between desk and policy" on Thursday, which is about preparing and implementing things properly. 'Cause this isn't gonna work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-22-tweedekamer-25.u143	Thank you, Mr. Ommzigt. That concludes this debate, but there is another point of order from Mr Klaver van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-22-tweedekamer-25.u144	Mr President, thank you. This debate has gone very smoothly. I would like to consider and ask colleagues to start the first period of office this evening. Then we will take advantage of the time that was planned in plenary. Time in this plenary room is precious. We don't have to finish him off completely. Then we'll continue tomorrow and we can still get home in time. That time is scheduled. I would find it a shame not to use it now, because no other debate is scheduled for this evening. Perhaps something extra could happen in the plenary tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-22-tweedekamer-25.u145	I'm going to present this to your colleagues. I would like to add that you also asked me for an agenda that is predictable. It has been on the agenda for some time that the first term would be today and the rest tomorrow. Directors and colleagues have also taken this into account. I think it is important to bring that to the attention of the House.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-22-tweedekamer-25.u146	One point. We all liked that, too. For we thought: we are twenty groups; this takes a long time. Now we're done early. Then I say, let's take advantage of that time. That still makes it predictable.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-22-tweedekamer-25.u147	I'm going to submit it to my colleagues. Then we're gonna count.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-22-tweedekamer-25.u148	I think it's a good idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-22-tweedekamer-25.u149	In the previous debate, I suggested that we finish the debate. Then GroenLinks said: no, we really have to stop, because we cannot continue in the evening and we also have to take into account the agenda in the evening. Then the President said on that basis: we will cut off this debate. Now the proposal is to finish it. So I'm a little confused, but I'd say I'm just following the chairman's schedule. Then let's continue tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-22-tweedekamer-25.u150	Let's see if there's any support for the proposal at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-22-tweedekamer-25.u151	I think we just talked about making the Chamber more predictable. You've scheduled it. That this wasn't going to be 10:00 tonight with that first term, I also knew when I saw that schedule. I believe that some predictability is better, including for all the people who work for us in this house, so I'm following your agenda.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-22-tweedekamer-25.u152	Let's make a correction, though. Mr Klaver did not propose to finish today, as I believe Mr Heinen said. He suggested that we at least make a start. I'd think it was a shame. We've reserved the room and people are looking away from home. If we tell each other that we finish somewhere around 10:00 p.m. to 10:30 p.m., I think we should...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-22-tweedekamer-25.u153	Yes. You support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-22-tweedekamer-25.u154	I support the proposal, but I thought I was still underlining it a little bit. I see that more and more people are considering that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-22-tweedekamer-25.u155	We're gonna listen to your colleagues. First Mrs Den Haan of the Den Haan Group and then Mr Van Raan.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-22-tweedekamer-25.u156	The schedule was until 9.30 p.m., so as far as I'm concerned, we're meeting until then. So I support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-22-tweedekamer-25.u157	I am also inclined to follow the schedule, as Mr Heinen says; so until 9.30 p.m. But I also think that we should involve the rulers, because they may not have counted on that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-22-tweedekamer-25.u158	I would, in fact, consider it important whether official support is able to go forward with the deadline today. Maybe he's planning on taking some time tomorrow morning to give us some answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-22-tweedekamer-25.u159	I can say that this is simply the case, because it is our agenda, and of course the directors also take that into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-22-tweedekamer-25.u160	Support for the proposal, but what I would have preferred was that we would have had a little more room for debate and that, if we had so much time, we would have had a little more interruptions. Now there were only four interruptions. That's why we had to limit ourselves. That's unnecessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-22-tweedekamer-25.u161	I'm just going to submit this, but we don't always have to fill everything in time.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-22-tweedekamer-25.u162	I don't really care. So if the majority is in favour of further debate, that's fine with me. I agree with the majority.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-22-tweedekamer-25.u163	Well, look at that. Then perhaps you can form the majority.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-22-tweedekamer-25.u164	It is not easy to predict a length of debate with 20 groups. You can see that now. Sometimes it gets 1:00 a.m. to 2:00 a.m., now it's actually too early; so we actually had some more interruptions... I can support the proposal, but I'm not moving heaven and earth for it. I understand that it will be tomorrow. So I support the proposal, but I'm not pissed if it gets any different.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-22-tweedekamer-25.u165	Mr. Chairman. I think my support is somewhat more limited than that of the cabinet, but my supporter is not here either, and he was expecting it tomorrow morning. So I choose to continue tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-22-tweedekamer-25.u166	I agree with what Mr Nijboer said.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-22-tweedekamer-25.u167	There is no... oh, sorry, gentlemen. You're almost in sync.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-22-tweedekamer-25.u168	Mr. Chairman. Our nickname is "Neighbor and Neighbor" and we're literally sitting next to each other. I think it's better to move on tomorrow. Then the cabinet and also the official staff can prepare answers. We'll be done sooner, but I support your proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-22-tweedekamer-25.u169	I agree with neighbor Eppink.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-22-tweedekamer-25.u170	Thank you. That concludes this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-22-tweedekamer-25.u171	We will continue the debate tomorrow. I thank the rulers for being here. I thank the spokesmen, the people in the public gallery and the viewers at home.
