ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u1	The next item is the legislative proposal Amendment of the Mining Act (adapting the licensing system for the detection and extraction of geothermal energy) (35531). We have nine speakers from the Chamber. Everyone's already talking, but they're going through each other. Well, you can, but we're really gonna do something different tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u2	The first speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mr Erkens. He has requested a fifteen-minute fidelcastrian speaking time. So if Members want to do something else or go for dessert from the Members' Restaurant, then that can and will not be a problem. But we are going to listen to Mr Erkens of the VVD group for fifteen minutes with interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm with you for keeping a 26-minute story recently, so I feel inspired by the best of us. Mr. Chairman. The VVD is a supporter of a safe and fast scaling-up of the use of geothermal energy in the Netherlands. Earth heat is a sustainable form of energy, which is, among other things, of great value for the sustainability of the built environment and of greenhouse horticulture. If we want to achieve the climate targets for the built environment by 2030, it is important that we can gain more geothermal heat in the Netherlands. Without that increase, the targets could be compromised. In addition, geothermal energy plays an important role as an alternative to woody biomass. By getting more geothermal heat from the soil, we can also ensure that the use of woody biomass for heat applications can be phased out quickly. Fortunately, there is much potential for further use of geothermal heat in the Netherlands and there are many places where geothermal heat can be extracted. It is important that we also realise that potential. The legislative amendment before us provides for a necessary modernisation of a licensing system for the detection and extraction of geothermal energy. This improves the focus of licensing on the specific characteristics of geothermal energy. That system was still missing. The aim for the VVD is in any case to achieve rapid and safe growth in the production and use of geothermal energy in the coming years. Mr. Chairman. I have some questions and concerns about that. The chosen licensing system focuses on the individual development of geothermal energy projects. According to experts from the field, this can stand in the way of scaling up and reducing costs. I share this concern, as the procedures are often extensive and take a long time, and this is always a single application. Does the Secretary of State agree with the VVD that a permit granting procedure of a few years is quite long, and perhaps the roll-out of geothermal energy could stand in the way? What are the possibilities for the Secretary of State to shorten certain steps in the authorisation procedure, provided that it is safe to do so, or, for example, to allow the procedures to run in parallel? Can we, for example, shorten the first steps in a process around the search areas based on the insights of the programme SCAN, Seismic Campaign Aardwarm Nederland. Indeed, a national knowledge base on geothermal potential could improve the initial process. It is also important that, when deadlines are agreed in a process, these deadlines are met. How is the Secretary of State going to ensure that the Ministry keeps to the deadlines it sets for itself in the licensing system? Is there any need for reinforcement in this area within the government? And that's what's going to happen? How many projects does the Minister think he can handle every year? My group also wonders why this law only opts for the issue of single start-up permits. How does the Secretary of State look at the so-called play model, where several wells can be used within one permit area? This could speed up the growth of geothermal energy and its large-scale marketing. In addition, my group believes that an evaluation after five years would be rather late if you wanted to adjust to the 2030 targets. We would therefore also like to see an interim evaluation in three years' time. It can also be kept rather superficial and short. We would like to see at least the initial experience gained from the public authorities, regulators, local authorities and market players. We can then see if any adjustments are needed and if adjustment is desired by 2025. I have already tabled a specific amendment to that effect. In addition, there are concerns about the potential impact of searching for geothermal areas and about drilling through drinking water facilities. Fortunately, so far there have been no serious incidents where this has come across, but we need to be aware that we are on the verge of strong growth in the use of geothermal energy. These concerns must be taken seriously, both in order to protect our drinking water and to ensure a strong support for geothermal energy in the future. After all, Dutch people can assume that we do not take any risks with their drinking water. I have therefore prepared and tabled an amendment with my colleague from the Christian Union in this area. Currently there is no official drilling in drinking water area, but search areas can be requested in a drinking water area. My question to the Secretary of State is why we are now allowing something that ultimately cannot be officially authorised. This is a crazy situation that leads to a lot of unrest and concern in drinking water companies, provinces and municipalities. As far as we are concerned, there should be no misunderstanding about not drilling in a drinking water area. We also want to see this explicitly in the search permit. In addition, the sector is still in its infancy and needs to be professionalised. Work has been done on a safer standard, with a often double humiliation of the geothermal wells. We would like this standard to be mandatory throughout the sector and to be tightened and monitored from time to time by the SodM and/or other relevant supervisors. An amendment has also been tabled in this respect. Mr. Chairman. In addition, soil composition differs in the Netherlands, in which geothermal heat can be more difficult to extract, especially in the south and east of the Netherlands. This problem has been in North Limburg for a number of years, for example, in greenhouse horticulture. There doesn't seem to be much progress. Why is there not much happening here in recent years? What are the differences with our neighbouring countries, which sometimes makes a different assessment? In any case, I would like to call for speedy clarity. The 2030 targets for greenhouse horticulture in Noord-Limburg are also fast approaching. If the Secretary of State believes that geothermal energy can still be extracted, under strict conditions, then this must be clarified quickly. This could, for example, be tested with a pilot and thorough investigation. Is the Secretary of State prepared to agree to this? If he believes that this cannot be done safely, he must also make it clear to the region quickly, because it can then develop an alternative plan, which, among other things, can still make greenhouse horticulture sustainable at equivalent costs. If the route of geothermal energy is to waste, there must be a perspective. Clarity in the short term is the most important thing. Is the Secretary of State prepared to do so and does he acknowledge this dilemma? Mr. Chairman. In addition, I have some concerns about the market power that a marketing authorisation holder can obtain by having the exclusive right in a field for the extraction of geothermal energy locally. A number of questions about that. What would that mean for the inhabitants of neighbourhoods that are heated with geothermal energy? Do we not run the risk of long-term local monopolies, where tariffs can be significantly increased for residents over time? How are you gonna prevent that? How are the tariffs for the geothermal energy supplied determined? Does the new bill fall under the Heat Act, with a cost-plus model, or did you prepare something else for that? And what does such a local monopoly mean, once it has been granted, for example, for a local greenhouse horticulture company that, after two years, decides to use its own source in an already authorised area? Is there room for that and how do we deal with it? How can we prevent the creation of a local monopoly that may put consumers and entrepreneurs in a position to be trapped? According to the Secretary of State, is that sufficiently secure or is there any need for more? My final point concerns the financing of geothermal energy. He's been out of business for years. We are now looking at so-called bulkheads or fences in the SDE++ grant scheme. This wouldn't be possible until 2023. That really seems too slow for us, because then we lose another year. Another year in which we do not work with geothermal energy for the 2030 targets. Does the Minister see the possibility of working with a partially adapted SDE++ scheme this year, with geothermal projects being better developed? Or does the Minister see an opportunity to resolve this in an autumn round? In conclusion. We want to work on a fast and safe roll-out of geothermal heat in the Netherlands, because this allows us to accelerate the sustainability, especially in the built environment and in greenhouse horticulture. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u4	Thank you. Then Mrs Kröger from the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u5	Mr. Chairman. Last week we talked extensively about Groningen. The mess that has caused decades of gas extraction there is incalculable: too much power for the NAM, too little control and a hand-to-the-crane principle that in practice is mustard after the meal. In Groningen we see from very close up the intense impact of gas extraction, but everywhere in the world we see the destructive effects of fossil. All reason to switch from oil and gas to wind, sun and also geothermal heat. So we have to go from gray to green. If we want to keep global warming within 1.5 degrees, we need to stop mining fossils as soon as possible and bet on real green alternatives. Now there is a bill before us to speed up the granting of geothermal permits. We are in favour of this, but we can also see that there are a number of concerns. There are a lot of colleagues' amendments. As far as GroenLinks is concerned, geothermal energy plays an important role in the energy transition, but that is precisely why it is very important that all the conditions are well regulated and that we do not repeat the mistakes of the past. Of course, they are completely different risks from those of gas extraction. We can see that this licensing system, which has now been proposed in the law, is based on that too, so really on geothermal energy, on geothermal energy. But how is that security well secured? Amendments have been tabled on this point, and we will therefore support them. There have been major concerns about the safety of drinking water areas, including in the report of the General Court of Auditors. It concludes that drinking water sources are not effectively protected in the development of geothermal energy by the Minister of Economic Affairs and Climate and the Minister of Infrastructure and Water State, neither in the design of the policy nor in its implementation. Those are very firm conclusions. We're worried about them. We would like to hear a response from the Secretary of State. Because what policy is needed to get more direction on the ground, as recommended by the General Court? We support the amendment tabled by Mr Erkens and Mr Grinwis in order to protect future drinking water supplies better than is currently the case in the law. We are very interested in the appreciation of the Secretary of State for this amendment and its implications. Then the wells. Are there really legal requirements for the quality of these wells? There are amendments on this point too. We will also support them, because, for example, we see in the story of the waste water injection what goes wrong when such a well leaks. Then, of course, it is water that is contaminated with chemicals. This is another case, but it is important that we ensure proper supervision and quality of the wells. Mr. Chairman. Our drinking water is under pressure. It is important that we are really more sparing on it. But if it goes wrong, then the damage must also be recovered from the companies. Does the Secretary of State agree with me and how does he intend to ensure that? Then the participation of local residents, municipalities and provinces. As with all forms of energy, participation is extremely important. We've seen how that goes wrong with fossil energy. We want to avoid making the same mistakes in new forms of renewable energy. What steps is the Secretary of State going to take on this? Then not so much about the bill, but wider about geothermals. How do we ensure that it is given sufficient support? That is not actually happening adequately at the moment. The current SDE++ functions as a kind of kilo-blaster, which does not stimulate innovation, but only the most cost-effective techniques. So now there are billions going to CCS, which doesn't trigger a transition, while geothermals are falling out of the boat. My question to the Secretary of State is: is he going to insist on the Minister for Climate Change that we get an arrangement that really drives innovation, and so is geothermal funding going to be good? There are also projects whose implementation period is likely to be exceeded, which threaten them to miss out on the subsidies available. Can a solution be found for this? Mr. Chairman. Let me briefly turn to another subject: lithium. The energy transition requires an enormous amount of lithium. The extraction of lithium has all kinds of hooks and eyes. For example, water resources in Chile are being affected. The price of lithium is also rising. Maybe we can win lithium in our own country. In some parts of Europe, the hot, salty water that is pumped up at deep geothermal conditions contains winable concentrations of lithium. There are already demonstration projects for lithium extraction in combination with geothermal energy. I would very much like to hear from the Secretary of State whether he wants to see whether this is an option in the Netherlands and how we could make that possible. Finally, Mr President. We're discussing an amendment to the Mining Act tonight. I would like to take this opportunity to amend the current Mining Act on one point, because at the moment gas can still be extracted in the Wadden Sea, a unique and our most vulnerable nature reserve. We want to protect that. The coalition agreement states that we do not issue any new permits for gas extraction under the Wadden Sea. That's plain language. That is why we are happy to help the coalition by anchoring it in the law tonight. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u6	And that is what you are doing with the amendment that initially introduced the amendment to item No. 12 was, but now the amendment to item No. 25 years old. We are now going to listen to Mr Grinwis of the Christian Union Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u7	Thank you, Mr President. Many households are anxious to keep an eye on it: what is the weather forecast, stays soft in winter, manage to keep my energy bill in check, keep gas flowing to Europe, or is the price still running up and there is nothing else to do but lower the CV or switch off production processes? While the urgency of the rapid and well-insulated housing and switching to other heat sources in the built environment and in greenhouse horticulture is evident, the present bill for the adaptation of the permit system for the detection and extraction of geothermal heat in the Chamber has been dusting for over a year. Actually, that wasn't justified. It's a good thing we're dealing with it now. At the same time, we have designed the grant instrument SDE++ in such a way that new geothermal projects have not been available in the last few years. Despite an approved motion by Mr Bontenbal and myself, Mr Bontenbal has just walked in and wants to build a shot for heat in the SDE++. Given the slow implementation of this motion, it may even take until 2023 for money to go to sustainable heat. That can't be true, can it, Mr. Secretary of State? I would like to hear his commitment that this year, if necessary in an additional SDE round, money will be committed for geothermal projects. The need to use less natural gas and more sustainable heat as soon as possible is great, both for geopolitical reasons and for sustainability reasons. But unfortunately, all the money available in the SDE++ is currently reserved for CO storage and for sun on roof and, less, for sun on land. In June last year, SDE grants totalling EUR 4.7 billion were committed, of which EUR 0.0 for geothermal energy, while at least ten geothermal energy projects are waiting for a positive grant decision. By rejecting them on a regular basis, they even threaten to die. That is rather sad and exemplary for the energy transition in the Netherlands to date. There is an enormous amount of attention to tonne-hunting and renewable electricity, sun and wind, but there is too little attention to it, and there are too few investments in sustainable heat, and that while the heat transition, especially for the built environment and for sectors such as greenhouse horticulture, is much more important. Geothermics, that's what we're talking about today. Geothermicy has started to fall and get up, but if you start looking in the Westland, for example, with gardeners who are connected to their own Western heat system, or with the Aardwarm Leyweg from The Hague, which has finally been running since this month, it will warm you up. At the same time, with geothermal heat, it is not all gold that shines. First of all, it must be safe for neighbors, everywhere in the Netherlands, from Groningen to Limburg, and for our drinking water. It must be sufficiently attractive for initiators to explore the earth in view of the heat it offers. Along this line, I have built up the follow-up to my contribution and, in consultation with colleagues, I have tabled or co-tabled a number of amendments to clarify and improve the law in this area. First of all, the seismic risks to geothermal energy seem fortunately small at the moment and in many places even negligible. But, as I said earlier, the geothermal sector is a learning sector. So we should not be naive and keep a close eye on all possible consequences. It does not seem a bad idea for the Christian Union Group to allow this bill to give rise to a national measurement network of seismicity led by the KNMI. In this way independent measurements are guaranteed, the system is coherent and there is maximum transparency. What is the state secretary's position on this idea? I am considering putting a ruling to the Chamber on this point. Last October's State of Geothermal Sector Review showed that SodM has concerns about the compliance and safety of geothermal companies, and that the professionalisation of the sector would not yet be at the desired level. Moreover, in the previous legislation, the standards for checking applications for permits were not sufficiently strict, so initiators did not know what requirements they had to meet, and then enforcement for SodM was also more difficult. What are you asking for here? Why is SodM involved in the proceedings so late? Isn't it wiser to involve SodM, State surveillance of the mines, in the search phase? And what measures does the Secretary of State take to increase the level of follow-up behaviour and safety in geothermal plants? As with everything else, the Netherlands is a small and busy country, where much happens on a small piece of land. However, the accumulation of environmental impacts of all mining activities, for example, is not properly reflected. A brief risk analysis is now requested only with a start permit. But because there is no scientific knowledge on this, we cannot actually make that risk analysis decent. My question to the Secretary of State is: how does he intend to make work of filling this gap in knowledge? Then drinking water. Geothermics also pose a risk of contamination of drinking water sources. Environmental pollution in the context of sustainability is, of course, absolutely undesirable, and so we need to minimise the risk of damage. That is why, together with Mr Erkens, I have tabled an amendment to address the concerns of geothermal energy and the risk of pollution of our drinking water. In our amendment, we exclude the possibility of drilling through the layers of earth that contain our drinking water. In addition, it remains important that provinces, drinking water companies and initiators stay in dialogue on geothermal energy. Is the Secretary of State prepared to encourage and support this discussion, and to draw up a plan of action, together with provinces, to continue to look critically and creatively at locations where geothermal energy is possible when identifying the additional strategic stocks? Mr. Chairman. There is no energy source or there are risks. The same applies to geothermal energy. It is right that we should think about this in detail tonight. At the same time, there are also great opportunities. Opportunities that we are not making sufficient use of at the moment, because regulation and inadequate funding instruments do not lead to delays, delays, or even the threat of a cut-off. That is why there are three amendments and three improvements as far as I am concerned. First of all, there really needs to be better regulation of transitional rights. Dozens of projects are now in danger of falling silent. And in view of the not unusual slowness of the excuse, also known as the Ministry of EZK in the past, I do not think it is realistic that all these projects should be granted a start-up permit within three months. With my amendment, together with Mr Boulakjar, I am trying to create certainty and peace for both initiators and civil servants. Then the second, Mr. Chairman. The purpose of this proposal is to make the Mining Act more consistent with the practice of geothermal energy. But when I read the law and put it next to practice, I can see some possibilities for improvement, for example as regards the period between being allowed to search a particular area and applying for a start-up permit. That is why I tabled an amendment with Mr Erkens to set the deadline at four instead of two years; a period which also corresponds to the SDE++. Then the third. This bill gives a lot of freedom to provinces for which conditions they want to allow heat extraction. I am very much in favour of an area-oriented approach, but a well-designed national assessment framework can help to reduce care for residents, while at the same time providing sufficient clarity and security for heat companies. That is why the third and final amendment, with Mr Agnes Mulder, is aimed at further developing an assessment framework in lower regulation, in order to provide the province with guidance in the assessment of a project. It is important to avoid a race to the bottom, and to draw up rules on "put integrity" and "put design" in order to optimally protect residents and the environment. Mr. Chairman. The current long lead times of licensing are devastating for geothermal projects. As a result, projects lose funding. At the moment, 22 projects are at risk of doing so. The confidence of financiers will be put under pressure. Specialist suppliers disappear as a result. And we lack opportunities to move from fossil heat to sustainable heat, while the 2030 targets are only going up - and it's actually 2030 the day after tomorrow. My question is: what is the Secretary of State going to do to simplify licensing and to meet these deadlines in future? Isn't that just gonna take more capacity? When will the granting of licences finally come to fruition? In its evaluation, State surveillance on the Mines indicates that the professionalisation of the geothermal sector is fast, but is not yet at the desired level. In this light, it is good that EBN is required to participate, both to support rapid scaling up and to build a portfolio. When will the role of EBN be further developed in lower regulation? How can the whole sector benefit from the experience that EBN is going to gain? In other words, how is knowledge shared? Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the final theme: ownership. The support surface for the energy transition is of course larger if you feel like you own. This applies not only to wind turbines and solar panels, but also, of course, to heat from home soil. The Climate Agreement aims at 50% participation. That sometimes seems to be watering down until now that terrible word 'participants' comes. But what is the State Secretary's commitment to geothermal energy? Of course, support will also be larger if you can benefit from affordable, sustainable heat against the backdrop of an extremely high natural gas price, like today. When is there a proposal for decoupling in the Chamber? I think that this is also true of Mr Jetten, but nevertheless. Locking up. Earth heat is of course not the silver bullet of the energy transition, but it is a more than nice addition to the sustainable heat source arsenal that allows us to heat thousands of homes, offices and greenhouses in the relatively short term. I am counting on the Secretary of State to share this ambition and, in any case, look forward to his first-term response.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u8	Very good. Thank you. Then Mrs Beckerman from the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u9	Good evening, Mr. Chairman. I can also speak on behalf of Lammert van Raan tonight. Yeah, that's a promise! I'd probably be worried too. Mr President, let me begin. The Netherlands has a lot of experience in mining. The Netherlands has often had to learn painful lessons about how not to deal with mining. I call coal extraction, gas extraction, oil extraction and salt extraction. What was not considered possible in advance or which was long denied, turned out to have to be repaired afterwards. Think of earthquakes, soil decline, pollution and so on, with all the consequences. We now have a lot of knowledge about mining, so we should not make the same mistakes again naively. We must learn from the mistakes made in the past. Tonight we are talking about a new form of mining: geothermal energy, the use of geothermal energy. The groups of the SP and the Party for Animals are concerned that this law will allow us to make the same mistakes we have made with gas extraction, coal extraction, oil extraction and salt extraction. At the same time, we see that the House of Representatives wants to amend the law to put safety first. I would therefore like to congratulate Mr Erkens and Mr Grinwis, and Mr Agnes Mulder and Mr Grinwis, or should I say Bontenbal and Mr Grinwis? That's a little far, isn't it? My compliments on tabling amendments not to drill into areas where drinking water is in the soil and to make demands to prevent damage to residents, nature and the environment. We liked these proposals, and we also hope that the cabinet will be prepared to amend the law. I want to walk past our points of criticism on the basis of the investigations that the OVV you know did to the gas extraction in Groningen. There are important lessons to be learned from our political groups for all types of mining. They did that in a very sensible way in 2015. In 2017, they repeated that when the cabinet had done far too little with it. In 2015, the OVV concluded that safety in gas extraction had not been paramount. But their conclusion was broader than just the extraction of gas. They said: strengthen the security importance in decision-making on activities in the deep underground. The SP and the Party for the Animal Groups do not consider safety to be sufficiently important with the current law. The most important point for us is that drinking water. Much has already been said about this by other groups, so I will keep that brief. The General Court was also very firm in its statement: "The drinking water supplies are not adequately protected from the risks of drilling for geothermal energy." That is the responsibility of the government, but that same government does not take the critical report seriously enough, according to the Court of Auditors itself, and pretends that the problems have already been solved. According to the SP and the Party for Animals, it is actually unthinkable to vote for this law if drilling in drinking water areas is not excluded. I do not know whether we can support the amendment in this way, but we would very much like to join it because we think it is so important. But damage to drinking water is not the only possible damage. Geothermals can also cause earthquakes, so the supervisor warns SodM. In the Belgian Mol there were already several earthquakes due to geothermal energy, and elsewhere that happens. We also know an example from Limburg. SodM states that damage to nature and the environment is also possible. Does the Secretary of State agree with us that stricter requirements need to be imposed in advance to prevent damage to residents, nature and the environment? After all, prevention is better than cure. But if damage occurs, companies must be able to be forced to pay. I would like to quote a painful example. In Limburg, after a bankruptcy of such a geothermal company, seven tons of public money had to be invested to clean up the mess again. I repeat, seven tons. Those costs were so high because they are radioactive waste. The company did not pay a fine of three tonnes and could not pay the cleaning costs. I would like to ask the Secretary of State: what's the status? Can the damage be recovered through the curator? Or should the Empire pay? 'Cause then we're all gonna pay for this. This repetition must really be avoided. Does the Secretary of State agree with us? We are therefore tabling an amendment to ensure that companies have to ensure that this money is reserved in advance, for example through a fund so that damage to groundwater, soil or nature and the environment can always be compensated, even in the event of such bankruptcy, because it is already reserved. We'd like a response to that. Then supervision and knowledge. An important advice from the OVV in 2015 was to strengthen supervision. Our groups are concerned about whether SodM can exercise sufficient supervision under this law. Mr Grinwis has just asked some justified questions about this. In the lobbying letters from the geothermal sector, they say that things did not always go well and that there were indeed cowboys, but that things are getting better now, because there is an industry standard. Why do we let the sector itself make that standard? Should we not ensure that these standards are set and set independently, precisely so that proper monitoring can be carried out? The state-owned company EBN............................................................................................................................................................... The question is: does the Minister, or at least the Ministry, have sufficient control over EBN? What's that all about? It is not automatic that, because it is a state-owned company, there is sufficient supervision of it. The OVV also recommended in 2015 to ensure that long-term, structural scientific research programmes would be set up for independent scientific research, precisely because of the fact that scientific knowledge about mining has been lacking over and over again, which has denied problems for too long. Of course, we have had to learn this in a very painful way in gas extraction, but also in other mining activities. This new form of mining, geothermals, is actually still very much unknown. We would therefore like to ask: is the Secretary of State prepared to ensure that an independent scientific knowledge programme is set up for the long term? As far as I am concerned, this is going to be a fundamental scientific programme. A third opinion of the OVV was, in addition to safety first, better supervision and knowledge, that the importance of residents should be more prominent and that provinces and municipalities should be given a role in decision-making. According to the SP and the Party for Animals, this is still not sufficiently regulated at the gas extraction in Groningen and from the small fields. But is that adequately regulated in this law for geothermals? Can a municipality or province change or stop a bad plan? Can residents do that? Who communicates when problems arise? What are the experiences, both positive and negative, of residents, municipalities and provinces in the current projects? You can also learn a great deal from that, namely what needs to be better for the future. Are we just looking at what the supervisor or the companies themselves say about it, or are we also looking at what the neighbors, municipalities and provinces think about it? Is the Secretary of State prepared to carry out such a study so that these experiences can be taken into account in the further development of the law, but also in the evaluation? I am not going to compliment Mr Erkens all the time, but he also thought it was a smart idea to bring that forward. Now it's done. Otherwise I will give this compliment on behalf of the Party for Animals; it will feel better. It's International Doe Friendly Day today. That's really hard for me, but I'm trying to do it a little bit. Then the compensation fund: the possible damage for residents. It is well known that the SP Group and the Party for Animals are very critical of the way in which the Temporary Committee on Mining Damage is arranged in Groningen. These groups wanted, and still want, that residents do not have to prove themselves that the damage is caused by mining, but that the compensation fund has to prove that the damage is not caused by mining. The burden of proof must be reversed; that is what it is called. With geothermals we add another form of mining to it. We will soon get many more forms of energy generation close together in more places in the country. It's very different than it was in the past. You get a lot of different forms of energy generation. But, yes, if it causes damage, in any way, it is increasingly difficult for residents to prove why. Is it the windmill, the geothermals, the old gas field, the salt extraction? So you have a lot of shapes together. You can already see from stacked mining that it's getting very complicated for residents. Does the Secretary of State share the fear that it will be very difficult? Of course, it would be the best thing for us to finally go for that reverse burden of proof. Finally, Mr President. Our groups can support the use of geothermal energy, but we would like this law to be amended. Security must be at the forefront. We have made suggestions for this or we support others'. By the way, our ideal is a public energy supply, so that profits can be used to further reduce the energy bill and households have more control over energy. I would like to see the amendment on item No. Move in 20. Move in 20. Move in 20. Move in 20. Move in 20. That's what I have to tell the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u10	The Beckerman amendment (Doc. 20) has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u11	Furthermore, we believe that the extraction of gas in Groningen should be stopped and that there should be no new gas extraction under the Wadden. That is why we have tabled two amendments with other parties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u12	Very well, thank you. Then Mr Kops of the Group of the Party for Freedom.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u13	Thank you, Mr President. Earth heat! In short, hot water is then pumped from the ground. This means that tap water is heated, which can then be used for heating, for example, homes, business premises or greenhouses. The first questions that arise in me are: what is all that really good for? What's the point? How much is it? How much subsidy is involved? What does it actually get? And of course, especially thinking about Groningen: how safe for neighbors and their homes is geothermal? Earth heat is called renewable energy. Sustainable energy is climate policy. The first question to the Secretary of State is then: can he perhaps calculate how much CO-saving geothermal energy has so far led and will have to lead in the future? What does that do with global warming? That's what it's all about in the end, isn't it? Mr. Chairman. The State Secretary writes that only 24 projects have been implemented since 2007, of which only 18 have actually produced heat in 2018. Eighteen. Of course, that's not very much. A geothermal plant produces an average of 0.2 petajoules. The Minister writes that for a year 4,000 homes can be heated. 4,000 homes is of course not very much and it is also a bit misleading. The current geothermal installations mainly provide greenhouses with heat; no homes. What the hell use is that to households? The question is how many greenhouses use geothermal energy. Total energy consumption in greenhouse horticulture in 2020 was 110 petajoule. All geothermal installations combined produced only about 3.7 petajoule. That is only 4% of total energy consumption. That's not very much either. The question is how much this has cost and how much subsidies have been involved so far. The Mining Council says: "Earth heat is a heavily subsidised form of energy extraction, where it is the question of whether and when profitable extraction, i.e. without subsidies, will be possible." Look, there you go. All these SDE subsidies are paid by households, except by companies. So these households are paying for the subsidies, but what do they get in return? Actually, nothing at all. Mr. Chairman. The Secretary of State writes: "There are no examples and/or experiences yet in which residents benefit from heat gained." Well, that's what people like. Conclusion: households have no money, but they have to pay for it. They do that through their energy bill, which has already gone up to record level anyway. By the way, have residents asked for geothermal projects? No. Do residents have anything to say about these geothermal projects at all? No, it's not. Although the draft permit is made available for inspection, the local residents will then be able to participate, but what does that mean in practice? Experience has shown that citizens will then have a few minutes of speaking time to say, for example, that they do not like it all and that they are afraid of damage to their homes. In short, they don't want it all, but it is. That's all that's gonna happen. Let us be honest: the fear of tremors and, as a result, damage to homes is, of course, very real. Take a look at Groningen. There's been a dead man in a broken house for years. They have to wait endlessly for damages and wait endlessly for reinforcements. The government abandons them and promises are broken over and over again. So it's one big drama. That drama must not, of course, be repeated with geothermal energy. What about the risk of earthquakes in geothermal energy? I quote the Secretary of State again: "Because of the lack of actual data, it is not yet possible to calculate the risk of tremors." In other words, we do not know at all. How can you allow these geothermal projects at all? The Secretary of State is talking about an "acceptable level of risk." What exactly is "acceptable"? That alone implies that a certain degree of risk and thus damage would be acceptable, but where is the limit? Again I think about the misery in Groningen. Is that acceptable? No, of course not. And yes, the amendment to the Mining Decree does contain a standard, the so-called Meijdam standard, but how is it measured whether or not that standard is exceeded? Yes, we can't do that at all, because, as I said, there are no dates. In a report of April 2020, TNO talks about a limit value of 3.5 on the Richter scale. TNO says that the risk of tremors is probably higher than 3.5 in geothermal energy. Of course, if you make that limit high enough, everything underneath seems to be covered. But of course the practice is really different. Take, for example, the earthquake in Groningen at Garrelsweer last November. It had a force of 3.2, i.e. below the limit value mentioned, but was actually one of the most severe tremors ever and caused enormous damage. Again, the question to the Secretary of State: what is acceptable? Mr. Chairman. David Smeulders, Professor of Energy Technology, also says: the risks of earthquakes caused by geothermal energy are similar to the earthquakes in Groningen. Conclusion: while households, residents, actually have nothing to say and have to go through all this powerless, projects are pushed through despite participation, they have to pay for it. But the geothermal plants are protected and treated. Firstly, as I said, they are heavily subsidised and according to the Mining Council, they will not be able to do so without a subsidy. Secondly, there is the so-called Earth Heat Guarantee Scheme, which has been rigged up by the government. Ground heat companies can apply and pay a premium and if a drilling threatens to fail, they will receive compensation. The budget for this scheme is EUR 44 million. Can the Secretary of State indicate how many times that scheme has been used by now? Companies can therefore accumulate subsidies and even buy off risks, but all households that have to undergo them cannot do so. They just have to wait and see if there is any damage and, as we have seen in Groningen for years, whether these scales and how they are compensated. And that is so often the case with climate policy. And also geothermal heat is part of that. Households have to pay through the energy bill that is already sky high, have nothing to say, have to undergo it all and we need to get rid of it as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u14	Thank you. A question from Mr Erkens.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u15	I think it's an interruption, Mr. Chairman. We don't have them in a plenary debate for nothing, do we? If I understand correctly, Mr Kops is not very much in favour of geothermal energy, which I would have expected to have locally extracted energy from home soil. What alternative does Mr Kops see? How's he gonna heat up all these homes? Because at the moment that often happens with biomass? I don't think he's a fan of that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u16	Firstly, a party like the VVD wants to get rid of fossil fuels as a core of climate policy. That is of course already a very wrong choice, because the result is that we see wind turbines everywhere, those terrible things, and everywhere sunbathing. And now also geothermal heat. As I said, that's where billions of subsidies go, coughed up by companies and certainly by all those households that can't afford the energy bill anymore. So we have to stop doing that. And as far as biomass is concerned, I'm sorry, we definitely have to get rid of that. How often has the PVV not tabled a motion here to stop doing so immediately and to stop granting subsidies for it? And then a party like the VVD votes against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u17	I hear Mr Kops talking about energy prices. I believe that gas prices are very high at the moment and they determine their high energy costs for people. And you propose to continue with gas to infinity, and you do not want to develop alternatives. Then where are you gonna get that gas? And how do you make it affordable?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u18	With regard to affordable: a party like the VVD very much wants renewable energy. Last year the wind turbine yields were very disappointing, because there was relatively little wind. That's what happens when you make energy dependent on the weather. And what is the consequence of that? Partly because of this, gas consumption has increased. This has made the gas plants turn faster. But what's the result? The VVD wants to get rid of the gas and, alternatively, the coal plants have turned harder again, because coal is cheaper than gas. A party like the VVD wants to get rid of coal and gas with a lot of subsidies, but that actually only makes us more dependent on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u19	My question was where the gas came from. Where are you going to get the gas in the future? Do you want to produce it again in the Netherlands? Do you want to go and get it from abroad? Do you want to be further dependent on Russia?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u20	Depending further on Russia? Then the VVD, Mr Erkens, is probably not really aware, because at the moment about 19% of the gas we consume in the Netherlands comes from Russia, so cut it out. But indeed, gas is a very good import. We do that from countries like Norway, Canada, Great Britain, it can come from anywhere. We can actually pump it up from the North Sea, that's all fine. So we can get it from anywhere. Where we don't have to get it from, it's Groningen. There we must immediately stop the gas extraction, as the PVV has said so many times. But a party like the VVD has trained that for years. It is because of the VVD that has been at the helm here in this country for years that people are in deep trouble.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u21	Fine. Mr Grinwis, perhaps.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u22	Keep going on this. According to the PVV, we can import that gas perfectly. That does mean that the money we have to pay for this is at the moment that a huge, terrible account disappears not in Dutch pockets, but in foreign pockets. I am talking partly about Putin, but it does go to many other places in the world. If we develop geothermal energy, the money will simply end up with Dutch initiators. It then ends up among other things with the policy participation EBN. It'll end up with us again. It is, therefore, also from an understanding of its own interest and because of the geopolitical importance of becoming more independent in terms of energy, quite wise to drill into our own soil instead of filling Putin's pockets and others even further.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u23	I think I've been talking about geothermal energy for eight minutes. Maybe I'm not speaking clearly. Perhaps I speak Chinese, but I have mentioned many reasons why we should not do this geothermal heat here in the Netherlands. There have been very few projects that have proved successful. It doesn't pay very much. The heat actually generated by these projects disappears towards the greenhouses. In itself, that's fine, but what's in it for people at home? However, the people at home are confronted with a huge energy bill. This is not only because of the high gas price, but also because they have to pay for all the SDE subsidies involved in such sustainable projects. And then the Mining Council says: geothermal heat is heavily subsidised and we still have to see if geothermal heat can ever be without a subsidy. Apparently, the Christian Union's vision of energy is: we should all subsidise it. People at home pay themselves blue, but they don't see anything in the end. They're still in the cold because of energy poverty.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u24	Yeah, we gotta do something about that. We need to isolate houses as soon as possible, as the weed goes. But at the moment, people pay mostly blue in natural gas. Those 49 greenhouse growers here in the Westland who sit on the geothermal grid and on two doublets of Trias Westland, of their own cooperative, are overjoyed. If Mr Kops had a glass gardener in the Westland who is on natural gas and has a neighbour who is on the geothermal grid next door, he would ask "where would you prefer to get your energy from: from that gas pipeline with you or the neighbour from the geothermal grid?" I know what he is replying to, especially at these prices.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u25	I would like to explain to Mr Grinwis why the energy bill has risen so dramatically. Of course, touché, because of the high energy prices. On the other hand, let us not forget that almost half of the energy bill is made up of taxes. Energy tax, storage of renewable energy and climate transition, VAT, it's all on that energy bill. Mr Grinwis can laugh, but over the past four years his party has been in the cabinet and has only made that energy bill go up hugely. There were no extremely high gas prices at the time, but that energy bill kept going up, because you raised and increased those taxes on gas. You've made gas priceless. Mr Grinwis sits down, so he agrees. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u26	No, no, he sat down! It's a little entrapment, Mr. Kops.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u27	That's entrapment, Mr. Chairman! One more thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u28	Then you'll have to come back.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u29	We're not just gonna let this go on our side. Mr Kops switched from greenhouse gardeners to households again very skilfully. Indeed, households pay quite a lot of tax on their gas bills. The greenhouse growers pay a lot less tax. That is precisely why they are directly affected by a high gas price, because this part of their bill is much more severe when Putin supplies a little less gas to Europe. So it is precisely them who benefit from being able to develop sustainable geothermal projects, to step away from gas, to electrify them and to switch to geothermal energy. This cannot be denied by Mr Kops with all kinds of tirades about a lot of taxes, because in greenhouse horticulture that is just a bit different.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u30	What am I supposed to do with this? I told you, it's a big illusion. In 2018, there were only 18 projects that actually produced heat. So I do not know what Mr Grinwis is talking about. And when we talk about the affordability of energy, do something about the high taxes on the energy bill. He's had four years to do that. But instead of lowering it, he's only raised it. And hearing him like that, he's just going through with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u31	No, no, no. We're going to see Mr. Bontenball, because he's made things up.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u32	The story you're holding now, you might have had two years ago...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u33	The story Mr Kops keeps.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u34	Sorry, chairman, a classic mistake. Perhaps he could have kept the story that Mr Kops is holding now two years ago, although I still would not agree with him. But these high gas prices are, of course, an issue. The gas price is now above €80 per megawatt hour. That was €18 a year ago, so that's many times higher. So the story about energy taxes that make up half the gas price has not been like this for a long time. Also over 2023 we are still above €50, I believe, and also in 2025 above €30. So it's still a factor 2 higher. Even if you would not do it from a climate point of view, it would still be wise to invest in energy sources that may be competitive in the long term, but which are not affected by this huge volatility in gas prices. So I do not understand why Mr Kops would not be a little more in favour of this wonderful technology.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u35	I can explain it again, but I think I have given enough arguments. We see worldwide that gas consumption is only increasing. In the coming years, it will rise to record level. Parties like the CDA want to get rid of gas in the Netherlands, people have to pay a lot of money for it. The rest of the world is only going to consume more gas, precisely because gas is so incredibly clean. It just really can't be explained anymore. And once again, as far as affordability is concerned, do something about it. Then lower those taxes once and make energy, including gas, affordable. You're at the helm, aren't you? But you won't.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u36	Thank you. Then we are going to listen to Mr Boulakjar of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u37	Mr. Chairman. A number of interesting contributions have already been made, so I'm going to skip through my contribution. Today we are talking about an amendment to the Mining Act. This is to promote and accelerate the extraction of geothermal energy. The geothermal sector is a young sector in strong development. There are still insufficient data and knowledge of the deep subsurface in large parts of the Netherlands and thus of the possibilities to use geothermal energy. This while we need geothermal energy to deliver the 60% climate ambition. My group welcomes the introduction of an adapted licensing system specifically geared to the detection and extraction of geothermal energy. But we do wonder how this works in practice, specifically what effects this has on our drinking water. I therefore put a number of questions to the Secretary of State and come forward with a number of amendments to this law. I will also support several of my fellow Members' amendments. Mr. Chairman. I'd like to start with some of the law's uncertainties. In areas where geological subsurface data are not yet available, it is difficult to estimate the potential heat. D66 receives from the sector concerns that applications will be made for search areas with a relatively large size compared to the expected heat demand. My question to the Secretary of State is how the assessment framework takes into account the uncertainties of the heat potential in areas where few geological subsurface data are known. The law provides that only geothermal heat can be detected if there is a start-up permit. Can the Secretary of State explain the impact of this amendment on the current holders of an investigative licence which have already started to prepare for the detection of geothermal energy by applying a hole? This is pretty technical. Is a transitional arrangement desirable for them? We have tabled an amendment on this subject together with Mr Grinwis. As I pointed out in my introduction, this law also presents a number of risks in addition to many opportunities for the sector. First of all, the capacity and knowledge in the provinces and in the Ministry of EZK. An open question to the Secretary of State, perhaps a closed question, but I'd like to leave that to him. Is there sufficient knowledge and capacity for the expeditious handling of applications for the authorisation of geothermal energy? What is the balancing framework used to award, or to reject in whole or in part? This especially in view of the effects on our drinking water. Mr. Chairman. Mr Erkens has already pointed it out, but D66 is also concerned about the lack of rules for the implementation and standards of materials and personnel. For example, we are thinking of conditions such as double tubes to reduce risks of leakage and a monitoring system of deeper groundwater to detect possible leakage. We therefore support his amendment. Mr. Chairman. Of course, everything must be aimed at preventing damage, but I also think it is important that we make agreements in case of failure. Article 24b provides for liability. How does the Secretary of State ensure that environmental damage can be recovered from the causer? Mrs Beckerman also mentioned this in detail in her speech, so I will leave a number of questions. I would just like to make the point that we are looking forward to the appreciation of Mr Beckerman's amendments. Mr. Chairman. With this bill, the Empire will be given a directing role. At the same time, careful consideration at provincial level is needed when drilling for drinking water sources. Can the Secretary of State explain how provincial advice is taken into account? Are these binding? Provinces should be given sufficient time to make their assessment. We would therefore like to extend the period for the province's advisory rights to eight weeks. We have made an amendment to this effect. Mr. Chairman. As far as my group is concerned, a complex licensing process, such as mining, requires great care. Knowledge and expertise are crucial here. My group is concerned that IenW, which has system responsibility for the public supply of drinking water under the Drinking Water Act, is not sufficiently involved in the licensing process. That is why today I come with an amendment which regulates that the Minister of IenW must be consulted when the State Secretary of EZK grants a permit in the field of drinking water against the advice of the provinces. This amendment must be seen by the Secretary of State as an additional means of protecting our drinking water. Mr. Chairman. I would also like to comment on the evaluation of this law. Mr Erkens has already mentioned this. But I see an interruption by Mrs Beckerman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u38	May I? I would like to ask a brief question about that amendment. Because in itself, if a province has so much concern about drinking water, would you be able to overcome this by saying that we won't?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u39	The provinces now have an opinion... No, let me rephrase. It is now about the amendment. There are a lot of concerns about the quality of our drinking water. When drilling geothermal energy, there are risks. At the moment IenW is system responsible. We are actually asking EZK and IenW, like a stick behind the door, to talk to each other, in front, to take care of the provinces away.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u40	My group is also very concerned about drinking water. I found the proposal made by Mr Erkens and Mr Grinwis very logical. They say you shouldn't drill in those drinking water areas at all. But then, of course, you're gonna be left with that slanting. You could then change the law by saying: we exclude that too. You could also say: we leave the advice of the province, the neighbors and the municipalities very heavy. Those are two other possibilities. I understand D66's proposal, but you wouldn't have secured security as much as you could. There'll be a risk. Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u41	It's an attempt to rule that out. I think it's okay if the Secretary of State appreciates that. Then the evaluation. But Mr Erkens has already said a few things about this. Another piece about the Wadden region. Let us be clear here today, and I say this on behalf of Mr Tjeerd de Groot, you all know that D66 does not want mining activities in, in or under the Wadden region. At the same time, my group is in favour of a sound legislative process, involving a public consultation, a Council of State opinions and, in accordance with normal procedures, discussing the matter. That is why we agreed in the coalition agreement to settle this for gas extraction. I see that I am inciting a number of interruptions, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u42	Mr Boulakjar is also asking a little bit for it. He says clip-and-ready: we're against drilling under the Wadden Sea. He then says, for some procedural reason: but I am not voting in favour of the amendment. At least that's how I understood that he's taking care of the cliff-and-ready. Is that right? And how do you explain that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u43	You can only be clip-and-ready, I'd say. At the same time, we live in the rule of law. Mr Nijboer also acknowledges that. During the debate in committee on Wadden, where I believe Mr Tjeerd de Groot did not discuss this with Mr Nijboer but with his colleague, he was very clear about it. Not only my colleague, Mr De Groot, but our group is a great supporter and defender of the Wadden region. We do not want any mining activities there. We've been very clear about that. At the same time, however, we are living in the rule of law and we will have to go through the procedures carefully and step by step.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u44	Yes, we live in a rule of law and we are as a chamber co-legislator. There is simply a change of law for an amendment to be called a change of law in order not to allow it anymore. It's as simple as that. We'll vote on that next week. If they really want to stop it now, D66 can just vote for it. You can also vote against it for other reasons, because there are licensing procedures and because there are other interests, such as economic interests. It's all possible. You can also vote for it, and then it's done.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u45	May I reply briefly, Mr President? What we do in the vote will still be apparent. However, I do not know whether this amendment, tabled by Mrs Kröger and others, is legally binding. When it comes to the Wadden region, our all-loved Wadden area, we'll have to nail everything down so we don't run into any mistakes. So I am not entirely convinced of the amendment. I would like to hear the appreciation of this amendment from the Secretary of State. But I want to take all the steps very carefully, carefully, carefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u46	This is a marvellous reasoning, isn't it? Our most vulnerable nature reserve is threatened by mining. With a change of law, we are simply proposing that we ban that type of activity on, below and in the Wadden region. It is a very clear amendment. There is also a very clear explanation. I really don't understand what's missing before D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u47	Thank you for Mrs Kröger's question. Let me first say that I think we as D66 are very clear. We don't want gas extraction in the Wadden. I think that's clear. Then we say: we live in the rule of law. So you're going to have to follow procedures in a proper way. I do not know whether Mrs Kröger's amendment has been completely legally boarded up. The last thing you want is for you to have an amendment and later it turns out that not everything has been thought about and there is a problem. But you have tabled your amendment. Perhaps it would be wise to await the Secretary of State's appreciation. That's always wise.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u48	That's the order of things anyway. That's what's gonna happen. We're not going to vote now. D66 can rest on that. But when I hear that D66 wants to go through the steps and procedures carefully, I ask if Mr Boulakjar is talking about the licensing process that is currently under way. Does he want to wait and see? Or is it about changing the law to protect the Wadden?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u49	I think you were present at the committee debate. Minister Van der Wal has made it very clear that there is a procedure around the nature permit. You're gonna have to wait for that procedure. Mrs. Kröger recognizes that, doesn't she?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u50	We have tabled an amendment which does indeed cross the licensing path. That's right. So here's what we're saying. You can change that law right now. That is a rigorous step, but then you assure yourself that there will be no drilling. That is the proposal we are making. We hope D66 supports that. That can indeed have consequences. It may be that the NAM says: but we had a permit trajectory running. It's possible. They may go to court. It's possible. But the Wadden are worth a sweet thing to me. That is why we are submitting this legislative amendment. I hear Mr Boulakjar say: well, I really just want to end that licensing process. If we do that, we run a major risk of damaging the Wadden. I don't want to take that chance.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u51	Mrs Kröger and I want the exact same thing. We want the exact same thing. D66 is very clear on that. D66 also fought to get that into the coalition agreement. But let's quietly finish the procedures in a neat way. I think we want the same thing. And hopefully it will happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u52	Very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u53	Maybe we want the same thing. But D66 wants to take a risk, and we don't.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u54	You're always at risk. However, I do not know whether Mrs Kröger's amendment is now legally closed. I just don't know. I don't know. I'd like to hear that from the Secretary of State later. Mr. Chairman. I've got two more...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u55	Mrs Beckerman would like to say a few words.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u56	Well, Mr. Chairman, I'd like to touch on that. Because I was a little worried: it should not be too much of a debate about the Wadden. The problem is: as a Chamber, we must also take ourselves very seriously. The Chamber is a co-legislator. We've taken quite a big step. We have asked for legal advice from our own budget, from our own chamber budget. We have independently requested legal advice from two parties. We asked, can we put that gas extraction under the Wadden? So we didn't go ice cream in one night. It has really been a long process to ask. It showed: yes, you can do that. So it's also up to D66 to cut that knot once. Do you want it or don't you want it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u57	I think this is a repeat of moves. What I said about the amendment remains the same. I don't know if it's legally boarded up. They're just pretending we're leaving room. My colleague Tjeerd de Groot has been very clear and clear: no gas extraction and no mining activities in the Wadden. That's very clear. I don't think you're getting it any clearer today.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u58	Fine. You'll finish your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u59	So I have a number of questions myself about what we said in the coalition agreement about gas extraction. When will the Secretary of State come to the Chamber with legislation on this matter? And how does the Secretary of State look at extending this legislation for gas extraction to all mining activities on, below and in the Wadden region? Mr President, I shall conclude. Earth's heat there we were talking about "sustainable" can play a role in the great climate ambitions of the Netherlands. But the construction must be done in a good way. My colleagues and I have asked several critical questions to the Secretary of State. I look forward to his answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u60	Thank you very much. I call Mr Nijboer of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u61	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In fact, everything you want to do in the spatial sense in the Netherlands, calls for resistance. It doesn't matter if you want to build something above the ground or underground. My view is that this has become much more sensitive in recent years. This also applies to geothermal installations. I'm kind of worried about safety, too. In Groningen we are not only dealing with earthquakes, but also a geothermal project has failed. That's what happened because it wasn't set up properly. State surveillance intervened. That's caused a lot of commotion. I am therefore asking the Secretary of State about these security aspects as well. It was really meant as a sustainability project, and to make the neighborhood sustainable. And it just failed. I'm asking the Secretary of State to prevent that. On my second point, I agree with colleagues. If that shit goes down, is there gonna be a little tidying up, too? And are the financial risks where they should be? Mrs Beckerman said something about that too. A third point is drinking water. In Twente it is something else, namely waste water, but from Twente we know how sensitive that is. I actually want the Secretary of State more or less to guarantee that there will be no drinking water pollution when you start this, even though there are no real guarantees in life, and certainly not in politics. In any case, I want more certainty in this respect than has been given at present. Mr. Chairman. I have a question about the participation of EBN, or actually two questions. EBN participates in everything, and I can understand that on my own. 20% is then the starting point. The question is: why the 20% and what is the control? So let's say 80%, do you as a government have some kind of gold stock, it won't be, but do you have more say in these projects? What's the deal with that? And the second is: because it is also used a lot for greenhouse horticulture, isn't there a risk that the government will become a kind of large shareholder in the greenhouse horticulture sector? That can't be the point, can it? On the one hand, you can save the most, because they use gas on the net, and I understand that, and you also want innovation, but I don't think that's desirable. I think that's quite a dilemma. I am very much in favour of state participation, innovation and sustainability, but I would like a response from the Secretary of State. If we have 20% of the energy supply of greenhouse horticulture on our balance sheet, then you also have an interest in maintaining it, and that does not necessarily seem to me to be a public task. Finally, Mr President. There are two amendments. One is about not drilling under the Wadden Sea. That's what we're under. The Chamber can say anything about that or be ready-to-use, to speak in the words of D66. The second amendment is by Mrs Beckerman, and I am also under it. That's just: in Groningen no more drilling than is agreed. I hope that the Secretary of State will be able to comply with it himself, but, to be safe, we want to make it clear by law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u62	Very good. Have another sip. The glass is half full with you, then we will listen to the last speaker from the Chamber: Mr Bontenbal of the CDA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u63	Mr. Chairman. I'm here on behalf of my colleague Agnes Mulder, because she's in quarantine. I'm sorry. You'll have to do it with me. Mr. Chairman. With the extraction of geothermal heat, we can take great steps to provide sustainable heat for greenhouse horticulture. We can also feed heat grids with geothermal energy that ensure that homes do not need to be heated with natural gas. Earth heat, geothermal energy, is therefore indispensable in the transition to sustainable energy supply, but we need to do it safely; safe for residents and safe for drinking water supply. That's why there's the bill we're discussing today. This also fits in with a geothermal sector that is growing up. It is good to read in the reply of the written round on this bill that both State surveillance on the Mines and TNO are asked to advise whether any risks to the safety of residents or damage caused by the extraction of geothermal energy will remain at an acceptable level. It is also good that these opinions will be involved in the final assessment and that the SodM advises on the quality of the seismic risk analysis. That sounds like a careful process, which has been considered. According to the CDA Group, the role that EBN can play in new geothermal projects can also help reduce safety risks. EBN participates in the projects in particular in order to accelerate knowledge in the sector and will therefore also leave the projects after about five years. To what extent is, or remains, EBN also co-responsible for cleaning up the activities, should it become, in the future? I would also like to hear from the Secretary of State what happens if, despite all the attention given to safety, there is some damage due to the extraction of geothermal energy. Then what can the inhabitants count on? How can people be prevented from entering the bureaucratic mill when such a situation arises? How does the point of contact set up so far function? In September last year, SodM evaluated the recommendation made in 2017 for the geothermal sector. SodM argues that it is important to make clear and concrete demands on the competences and expertise of operators of geothermal energy projects. This should be regulated, among other things, in the Mining Regulation, but these requirements were not yet known in September. As the modification of mining legislation was not yet complete, there were also no clear standards to be met for, for example, obtaining a permit, while there is a strong need for it, both for companies and for SodM. The SodM states in its September report that this makes it unclear for the operator in compliance and for the SodM during supervision. It may also lead to delays in assessing applications and granting mining permits. That's worrying. Can the Secretary of State make it clear when these requirements and the modification of the Mining Regulation that is to regulate them will be ready? The SodM also indicates that the long procedure and the uncertainty that currently exists as to whether and when authorisation is granted are obstacles to new geothermal projects or to the expansion of existing projects. This uncertainty can also have an impact on financing. It may lead to some of the financiers withdrawing from the geothermal market. This seems to us to be a bad situation for the development of geothermal energy and thus for the heat transition. In addition, there has been no success in eliminating the backlogs for approval of extraction plans. SodM advises to take that up as a matter of urgency. What does the Secretary of State do to remove uncertainty and to eliminate the backlogs as quickly as possible? SodM's report also states that a standard for seismicity is included in the draft modification of the Mining Decision and that the calculation method to demonstrate compliance with the standard is lacking, but that it is being worked on. Can the Secretary of State tell us what's going on with that? When should the Seismicity Standard and the Calculation Method be ready and set? Early information and involvement of residents if there are plans for drilling for geothermal energy is also very important for the CDA. This is also mentioned by the SodM as a condition for making well-founded decisions. The Mining Council has also indicated that we must learn from the lessons of Groningen. It is good to read, in response to our group's questions about this, that the Ministry of EZK has improved and intensified communication with the residents and involving the residents, and will work with local authorities to see how the environment can be properly involved. It would be good to monitor whether people actually succeed in informing residents early and sufficiently. This is also what the SodM advises. Can the Secretary of State indicate whether and how he will follow up on this advice? How is it monitored whether residents are actually adequately and prematurely informed? Another point highlighted by the SodM is that municipalities and initiators do not always manage well to avoid anxiety among residents, because the information on a possible geothermal project is often already known before formal pathways are started. What possibilities does the Secretary of State see to prevent such situations, as SodM recommends? Then the safety of our drinking water. The General Court published a report last June, expressing concerns about risks to the quality of underground drinking water sources resulting from drilling for geothermal energy. There could be leakages of salt water both underground and above ground. The Court points out that the major importance of drinking water has not been developed in legislation and regulation, and that it is therefore not clear how the major importance of drinking water should be weighed against other national interests. I'd like a response from the Secretary of State on this. What steps does he take with his colleague from IenW to work out this major importance in law and regulation? The Court also warns that initiators are not currently being asked to consider at one central moment the potential risks to soil and drinking water and that these effects are not assessed by the Minister at one central moment. Similarly, according to the Court, there is currently no assessment framework on the basis of which drinking water is assessed. That is also the reason why the Christian Union has tabled an amendment to ensure that there is a proper assessment framework; the CDA is a co-signator. Can the Secretary of State promise that he will get to work quickly and that there will also be a central moment, for example in the start-up permit, on which drinking water aspects, both by initiators and by the Minister, will be assessed in the process? Can the Secretary of State also explain how he will apply the prevention ladder from the government's drinking water policy? What the Court of Auditors' case study also shows is that local authorities are not specifically asked to respond to the drinking water aspects in the application for authorisation of a geothermal project. Will the Secretary of State be able to ask the local authorities about this in the future? SodM also calls it important that geothermal companies in the Netherlands provide a well-documented put integrity-care system. It can prevent leakages into drinking water. Can the Secretary of State indicate whether such a system is in the process of being developed? Finally. There are a lot of projects and companies in the Netherlands working on geothermal energy. It's a young sector. There are promising projects. I think it's important that we give space to those companies in society. We wish all those companies involved in this kind of beautiful projects a great deal of wisdom, innovation and entrepreneurship. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u64	Thank you. And we wish Agnes Mulder much strength and well-being.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u65	I'll pass it on.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u66	I'd like to speak on behalf of the entire room, including the Secretary of State. I'm gonna suspend for 20 minutes and then we're gonna listen to the Secretary of State's answers, and then we're gonna be outside in an hour.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u67	We're gonna listen to the Secretary of State. As always, he answers sitting. He's got the regular microphone on. We are going to listen to his short and pointy answer. Then we'll be done in a minute and then we'll have something to do with our evening after this beautiful debate. I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u68	Thank you, Mr President. I'll do my best. There were a lot of questions. I would like to thank Members for all the questions and comments. In general, I thought it was a constructive input that, I think, we can do a lot with, also to make the law better. I would have preferred to have done it through, but I couldn't do it for a while; so I'm just going to go through at the end of all the amendments that have already been tabled in my first term. That also promotes speed. Today's bill is important for the energy transition. The law before us actually allows the use of geothermal energy in the built environment to be accelerated. That is important, because it is actually a logical way to provide heat to the built environment with geothermal energy. It is a relatively young sector, as the Chamber pointed out. But there are always projects. For some sectors, many members pointed to greenhouse horticulture, geothermal energy is simply important. The current licensing system is published in better Dutch: from time to time it dates back to 2002, when geothermal extraction was still in its infancy. We are therefore making a number of changes to the Mining Act which are specifically aimed at accelerating these projects, in order to speed things up. I think Mr Erkens said that first and most pregnantly, but everyone actually said that. We actually do four things. There will be a separate licensing system for the detection and extraction of geothermal energy. This allows the use of geothermal energy in the built-up environment to be accelerated. Safety is at the top of this; I'm about to start with that. Safe for people living around, but also especially for people living around, and I am going to say a lot about this for drinking water. That was actually the most important point the Chamber made. I also have the specific conditions that the wells must meet. The bill regulates provinces and advice. I will say something about that too, because there were a number of questions about that too. Furthermore, the role of Energy Management Netherlands. Then I am pretty much through all the subjects, and at the end I am going to say a few words about a few issues that were not actually explicitly on the agenda, but for which amendments have been tabled, which of course is the right of the Chamber to discuss legislation. So you won't hear me about that, except I'll give you an appreciation of that. Mr. Chairman. The words "clip-and-ready" have been used too often. But it is also quite clear now, and there should be no doubt that drilling in drinking water areas is not desirable. So I would just like to say that I am in favour of the Erkens/Grinwis amendment, or -Grinwis/Erkens, in which that is explicitly stated. My officials say that this is not really necessary, because it goes well through the province, but I think it is wise to ensure that this is done in the law. I think that is a sensible amendment, and we should just do that. The question was also: are these provincial opinions binding in this area? Yes. When it comes to piercing a groundwater protection area, this cannot be done without the province's consent. It was Mrs Beckerman who specifically asked for this in a small debate with Mr Boulakjar: when is it now imperative? Well, then it's compelling. However, other advice from the province may be justified in the event of serious interests. I am going to say a few words about the amendment that Mr Boulakjar had in mind. Dan: Can the Secretary of State give a guarantee that if geothermal energy is started widely, there will be no drinking water pollution? Mr Nijboer asked. Yes, because the protection of groundwater is very important, and that is why we will check the well and reservoir integrity before we issue the permits. SodM oversees that. This means that the major importance of drinking water from the Drinking Water Act, to which Mr Bontenbal referred, must be secured. And here's the balance sheet. I'm sensitive to that. Who has anything to say about drinking water at what time? I would just like to say this to Mr Bontenbal, because I believe he asked for it. I don't want to say that he was a little confused, but at least he asked for clarification on that, so that he could say that again. So if that's what he means by a balancing framework, then I'd like to put it on paper again who decides what when? I thought that was a good idea, actually, so I'm gonna do that. Is the Secretary of State willing to let the county and neighbors decide? The answer to this is simply: yes, provinces have advisory rights in all procedures and residents also have participation through normal procedures. Mrs Beckerman drew attention to the wider security aspect. As Secretary of State Groningen, as I often hear myself call myself, I naturally feel very strongly about that. Shouldn't we go for a reverse burden of proof? Well, I find that drug here on the disproportionate side. However, I do sympathise with Mrs Beckerman that we really need to look at whether this should be placed in the Committee on Mines Damage as a guarantee of possible damage. I told you, I find that inverse burden of proof disproportionate now. But I can imagine that I will look again at exactly what I can do about it, that it is not so much about Mrs Beckerman, but it is more about the people themselves who experience sufficient safety; let me put it this way. Mrs. Beckerman wants to ask me something, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u69	I remember a couple of reporters from the North's Dagblad once went to America to see what was going on there with gas extraction damage. It was huge, too. And the people had an even bigger problem, namely that there was not just one company on board, but that there were ten collars. Then why don't you go and prove it? That, of course, also threatens with that geothermal energy, and also later with the whole energy transition, where you may have three, four, five kinds of energy around your home. I don't think it's very concrete what the Secretary of State wants to do with "watch ahead."
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u70	Mrs Beckerman is right that I am not yet very specific. I am sensitive to the argument that more and more things are happening in a small country. But I do not think that the instrument she proposed in the debate is proportionate. We have that instrument for Groningen and for the earthquake area. I said last week in the Groningen debate that I am also willing to take a serious look at the application of this also in Grijpskerk, because there is gas storage there. So I don't know if that's the right instrument here. Perhaps then I can make the following commitment to Mrs Beckerman. I am now trying to formulate it as formally as possible. I will look into the extent to which the damage handling by the Mining Damage Committee is sufficient if there are cumulative activities. That was mostly her point and I shall come back to it. We have many debates on mining in the coming months, so many opportunities to get back to this. Is that a good idea?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u71	Very briefly. I can also think of other instruments than reversal of the burden of proof or suspicion of evidence. For example, one of these instruments could be a kind of zero measurement in homes, as sometimes happens when a road is built for your home. Is that the kind of instruments?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u72	Let me take Mrs Beckerman's suggestion. Then I come in the run-up to a mining debate in the coming months with a letter or an oral reply. Because the point is right, I think. I would like to say something in general. I see here a question about the follow-up and safety of geothermal plants. Mr Bontenbal pointed that out. It's a new sector. Some people talk in hearings about cowboy behavior in that sector. I think it would be wise for me to have a conversation with this sector in the coming months to talk about how they can organise themselves better. They're organized; there's some kind of industry association. But I myself think I can contribute to this by having a conversation with them about how they organise themselves and how they behave. I think that might help address this problem. In the same light, Mr Grinwis asked: what is the State Secretary's position on this security and an independent measurement network of the KNMI? That's what I'm here for. I asked the KNMI to make a proposal to set up such a nationwide network. The question is: I have received this proposal and I will inform your Chamber shortly, I say to Mr Grinwis. I assume that will be by letter. It was particularly Mr Erkens who asked about Limburg. Limburg is a difficult area for geothermals. Geologically, it's a tricky area. Mr Nijboer, who has since left, referred to an earlier problem there, to previous damage. At the same time, it is an area in which a number of people also want to use that geothermal energy. So I actually think that we should look through all of his questions and say that in this area the most effective and efficient answer is that we are indeed going to carry out a pilot in North Limburg. Then we could gain extra accelerated knowledge or be able to do this safely in Limburg, because that is actually the purpose of the pilot.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u73	I'm happy with that commitment, you know. All I have to ask is what time the Secretary of State thinks he can start that pilot. Because quick clarity is the most important thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u74	I will come back to that in second place. I don't have a time limit on my note, unless the staff gets it to me now, because then I can still report it. Mr. Chairman. Which brings me to surveillance. After safety comes the surveillance. Mr Erkens asked: what is the state secretary's position on an obligation of industry standard for the whole sector, with it being tightened and monitored from time to time? I believe that one of the other Members also said: it is strange that these industry standards are actually more or less done by companies themselves. I am indeed in favour of making this mandatory. As far as I am concerned, it may have been drafted by the sector, but it will then be made compulsory. Then I will include the key elements of these standards in lower regulation, so that the issue that everything is voluntary is resolved. Then SodM can supervise that too. Mr Grinwis asked why is SodM involved in the proceedings so late? It is a rather simple and faint answer, but it is the answer to the question why SodM is not involved in the search phase: because then one is not drilling in the ground yet. That is the short answer to Mr Grinwis. SodM is of course purely focused on monitoring the drilling activities: safety and risks when using the deep subsurface. In that search phase one is literally still not doing anything in the ground, just searching. Also, the specific extraction site in that search area is not yet known. That would be the answer to that. In reply to Mrs Beckerman's question, this also indicates that I think that SodM can exercise sufficient supervision here. Then I have a difficult issue, because I actually agree with Mrs Beckerman's amendment on financial security, and I do not. I'm gonna try and explain that. Mr Boulakjar outlined the main points. He said, "You'd want environmental damage to be recovered from the causer, wouldn't you?" Yeah, we all do. We agree on that; point. Mrs Beckerman said that such a company must have sufficient reserves to be able to do so. At the same time, if we are going to impose too great demands on the financial guarantees of these companies, this sector will be even more difficult to start than it already does. So I'm a little torn up here. I can follow the ideas, but I am a little concerned with operationalisation through the amendment, which says that every company that does something must have financial guarantees. I was thinking if this is soluble in an elegant way, by saying, to start with, that it must be done in any case when you are working near drinking water, because there are probably the greatest risks. So it doesn't have to be if you're working in the ground with geothermal energy at all, but if you're working in an area where there's a difficult balance between drinking water and drinking water, then it might be wise to tell the companies that do that: then you need an extra financial requirement. I would therefore be able to give the House's opinion on the amendment. Then I find it executable. Otherwise, I doubt I'm gonna make it too hard on the companies. But I'm kind of in the hands of the Chamber here. I would just like to put the dilemma to you, within the framework of good legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u75	It's a little complicated when the Secretary of State asks me to be elegant, because that really isn't my core quality. I'd go along with that, but I'm still struggling. Take the example I mentioned of a bankrupt geothermal plant in Horst. The cost was seven tons. These costs may have to be paid by the Empire. That was also a question I had asked. I don't think this was in water-win area. The Secretary of State says, "Protect those poor companies." However, I would also like to quote Mr Kops in his speech, of course, so that we, as the Empire, will not pay double later, so that we pay first and then clean up the mess again.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u76	I don't think Mrs. Beckerman is doing me justice. It wasn't elegant to say that I said, "Protect those poor companies." I don't think that's what I said. I meant that these companies should be able to start and do so. If the financial burden on those companies gets too big... think about the tail risk. You also mentioned a fund in your contribution, in all honesty, you might do that for such a tail risk. I therefore find it complicated to give the House's opinion on the amendment, which is actually the operationalisation of Mrs Beckerman's question, when I do not know what that means for the viability of these companies. We could also do it differently now, namely that I ask you to keep the amendment and let me take a closer look at what that means in financial terms for those companies. I am rather afraid that they will then have to hold huge reserves. These are about the flavors I have on sale.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u77	Okay, I'd definitely like to think about that. I'm looking at those suggestions. However, I am very curious to hear the answer to my question about the seven tonnes, because it should be made clear, about now, whether the State should pay it or whether it can be recovered from the curator. It's quite a noose.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u78	I shall come back to that in the second term, if I can answer the question. I don't know. I don't have it right now. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u79	I try to think along with the Secretary of State, also on the point made by Mr Beckerman. At the front we cover risks with a guarantee scheme. This is partly borne by the government, but these companies also contribute to it. I fully understand your argument that you can't do it at the individual level of a company at the back, because then there will indeed be no project anymore. But can't we do something similar in common when we're at the front, at the back? Can we not ask companies to apply certain quality standards and to be a member of the industry organisation? There might also be some kind of joint fund, with the guarantee that if things like this go wrong, something can be covered from that fund. Or is that a crazy thought?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u80	No, that's not a crazy thought at all. That is exactly what I was thinking, but that does not mean that we have to stop the law, the vote on the law and the amendments. In the spirit of what Mr Bontenbal and Mrs Beckerman say, I can think about the further development - perhaps in lower regulations or something. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to everything that has to do with the speed of permits, Mr Erkens, Mr Grinwis, capacity, etc., etc., etc. I will come back to the issue of single permits versus the so-called play approach, which at this hour has a very different connotation; a playing approach, I'll say; a broad approach. Mr Bontenbal asked for the removal of uncertainties and delays in the assessment of extraction plans. The purpose of this bill is precisely to speed this up. The difference is, you're gonna have a period where you're looking. Then you get one license and you can start drilling right away. That should help, just because of the physical qualities of geothermal energy. What possibilities do I have to shorten certain steps in the authorisation procedure? Where possible, referrals shall be submitted in parallel. I myself think that might help. Is the Secretary of State going to make sure that the Ministry complies with its own deadlines? Yeah, we're definitely gonna try to do that. I think this law can help with that. Maybe I can say something about the evaluation right away, or maybe I should do it when I've taken the play approach. What I think is going on here, for example, in relation to what Mr Erkens asked, is the question: do you want to give the play approach a larger area to have it searched and played, or do you want to do it more per smaller area, simply? There are just two views on that. My problem is a little bit in the fact that, if you grant that larger area, you're actually giving away a bigger monopoly. Mr Erkens makes a point on the market organization; I shall come back to that in a moment. I think that is ultimately a decisive argument why we have chosen this approach. There's a question as to whether this works best, and that brings me to what I just wanted to say. I think the idea that we evaluate faster than after five years and do an interim evaluation after three years is wise. I think it would be wise for us to look directly at this evaluation to see whether this play model is not a better model than the one we are going to use now. Is there a need for more capacity? I can't say that right now, I'll tell Mr. Grinwis. If that's what it takes, I'm sure as hell gonna take care of it. Mr. Chairman. That brings me to the market organization. It is a somewhat complicated answer, but the market organization is not so much determined by underground organization as by land-based organization. After all, it's the Heat Act. I thought Mr Grinwis was just asking about that. It is indeed my colleague, Mr Jetten, who is working on this. It ultimately determines what the market organisation looks like. That order under ground is, in the end, only an order that follows the top, to put it simply. If Mr Jetten comes up with a new idea about the Heat Act, this will be right there. Mr Erkens asks what such a local monopoly means, for example, for a local greenhouse garden company that, after two years, decides to use its own source in an already authorised area. That is true of the fact that, if that area is authorized, another person is no longer allowed to drill into it. This is another argument that brings me back to my point of just, that play approach: if you make that area too big, then you actually promote monopolies. So that's not advisable, but we're gonna do that evaluation. Mr. Chairman. Which brings me to the SDE. Not to run away, but I understood that this was also the subject of the debate with Mr Jetten this afternoon. I think that the Minister for Climate and Energy and I share the view that we need to work quickly on these bulkheads or fences or whatever we want to call them. As far as viewers are at home, I wonder. I'm trying to keep it interesting. Those booths or bulkheads must lead to not only the cheapest technology being subsidised, but also the more expensive techniques, which need more subsidies but which may be more promising. I thought Mr Jetten promised one or two letters on this this afternoon. They are coming soon, I understand from the staff. I don't want to walk through that right now. The Chamber is, of course, free to comment on it in this debate. I can't stop that. But that's what I wanted to say about it right now. Which brings me to EBN. It's interesting that we do something there that we don't normally do. We are more or less forced to arrange that there is a public participation through EBN in the projects. I thought that Mr Bontenbal was the one who spoke most pregnantly in order to make it possible to increase knowledge, and I thought there was a motion by Mr Jetten from a few years ago. He asked for this. That's why we have that participation of EBN. I had to get used to it for a while, but I think it's a sensible thought in the end. This brings me to parts that are not related to geothermal energy: the Wadden Sea and the amendments. I'm gonna take a look at the Chamber to see if I can go over to those subjects, unless there are any questions about the geothermals.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u81	Maybe I missed it, but I asked one more question about the fact that EBN is getting into those projects, but at some point it also goes out. What does it mean if things go wrong much later on in the project? I assume that EBN will no longer bear any responsibility for this. Is that responsibility done after five years or is there still a risk?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u82	I suspect the answer is yes, but I'm gonna check it out for the second term. I hope the officials are listening. I shall come back to this point. It seems to me that the answer must be yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u83	I had a brief question about the capacity of the Ministry itself to handle the permits. Maybe they missed it. Does the Secretary of State see any bottlenecks there? Does he perhaps see a scaling-up of his own capacity? Because if the number of permits increases, it can also cause delays.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u84	I said it in a subtlety, but that was really fast. Sorry about that. I do not see any capacity limitation there at the moment, but I say to the Chamber that if there is a capacity limitation, I will deal with it and report it to the Chamber. Mr. Chairman. That brings me to a strange duck in the bite and that is the Wadden Sea and Ternard.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u85	Mrs. Kröger's coming for a run.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u86	Before we talk about the Wadden: I asked a question about lithium mining.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u87	You're right about that. That answer's not in my set. I'm afraid to take it out of my head. I thought it was an original and original thought, but it's also new to me. I am not going to go freeriding here, as it is so beautifully called, and I will come back to that in the second term, if Mrs Kröger is okay with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u88	It's possible. I also have a motion on it that I would like to table.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u89	It's like we agreed. We had a debate on the Wadden a few weeks ago with no less than four or five rulers. Mrs Kröger's party colleague wanted me out of that debate as soon as possible, because she felt that there should never be another drill in the Wadden Sea, so I did not belong there at all. I felt very welcome there, you understand. On behalf of the Minister for Nature and Nitrogen, I would like to inform the Chamber that there has been contact with UNESCO and that IUCN, UNESCO's advisor on natural world heritage, will issue an opinion on the extraction of gas in Ternaard. That's a wish from the Chamber. It will inform your Chamber by letter prior to the two-minute debate on the Wadden. I'll let you know. Mr. Chairman. Around Ternaard we had a long and intensive debate that led to the Chamber, hearing everything that happened, and we do not have to agree on the government's position. The government's position is that the Minister for Nature and Nitrogen is now looking at a nature permit, according to which she has once again asked UNESCO for advice. On that basis, the cabinet will take a decision. I will follow that decision as Secretary of State responsible for mining. With others, if there is a limitation under the Environment Act, I will follow it and will not be drilled from Ternard. That's what we agreed to. I see in my text that this has not yet taken place in response to that debate. That means, and Mrs Kröger will not be surprised because this is in line with what the cabinet said earlier, that the amendment as she has put it cannot in one way. The cabinet will not now judge Chamber on an amendment that now makes drilling in Ternaard impossible. This means that we are suddenly going to do something different in the middle of the procedure. Of course, the Chamber can find something else. Let Mrs van der Wal conclude that procedure, we said in that debate. After that, all kinds of brave decisions can be made by everyone involved. I would add that such an amendment now means that we are getting a huge claim from the NAM. That was very much shared in that debate at the time. That is why I do not think the amendment is sensible. Line two is a different argument, I say to Mrs Kröger. That is the point on which I am actually 100% in agreement with her. We must have the position 'no longer drilled into the Wadden', which is also contained in the coalition agreement and which I think is almost universally shared somewhere in the legislation. I'd like to do that myself in the Mining Act. As it is now stated in the amendment, it goes so quickly that it does not just say 'gas', but it says 'delfinants', that there might also be permits from others that lead to legal proceedings and damages. My question to Mrs Kröger would therefore be the following. There's two ways to do it. She can keep the amendment, but well, next week the law will be voted on. From Ternaard, that is not the position of the cabinet. On the other hand, it is actually the government's position. But I want to do that nicely. In the debate where your party colleague Bromet was present, I promised that I would come towards the summer myself with a legislative amendment that would make drilling in the Wadden impossible.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u90	I'll be honest with you. I did not expect this Secretary of State to say now about the amendment: thank you for helping to implement the coalition agreement. So there's no surprise. But I think it is a difficult position. We're all very clear that Ternard is an undesirable operation. If the cabinet intends to ban it in the future, why would you still want to issue a permit or run the risk of handing it over? Why wouldn't you give me that clarity now? We can do that with this amendment of the law. There is also the possibility that something else may have to happen afterwards. But this change of law is crystal clear. It may indeed be that the NAM will then take steps. That's possible, but we wouldn't have drilled under the Wadden.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u91	I will be the last to deny that the amendment proposed by Mrs Kröger is crystal clear. It's crystal clear. But I think the cabinet's position is also crystal clear. This position is also reflected in the coalition agreement. We'll finish the procedure around Ternaard. Which means we're looking at the nature permit right now. I'm Secretary of State for the Cabinet, so I'm just going to repeat the procedure. But I have to say, I didn't taste a majority for drilling through Ternaard in the Wadden debate. Listening to the debate, I think there is no majority in the Chamber. I could also turn the question around: why go straight through it with a change of law, while the cabinet ends a net trial, which minimises the risk of a claim or a lawsuit of the NAM? After all, it is done neatly through the permit. That would be Mrs Kröger's question again. So these are the two opposing positions. I'm just trying to be as clear as I can be.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u92	The communication is very clear. But does the Secretary of State say that even if there is such a direct nature permit and a mining permit can be issued, the Secretary of State does not intend to do so? If that's the answer, the story changes. But that is absolutely not the answer so far.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u93	But that's not the answer either. I formulated it very precisely. I didn't taste a majority in the debate on Ternaard. When the cabinet comes up with the position to do so because we do not see any room in the permit not to do so, I suspect that the Chamber will express an opinion on this. That's up to the Chamber at the time. I really think this is just the wrong timing. We had a good debate on this. The position of GroenLinks, but also of other parties, is clear. It's okay. It's a very clear point of view. The cabinet's position is: let us finish the process now and then we come to the Chamber with a position.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u94	Finalizing, because I think the positions are clear by now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u95	What's bothering me is this. With regard to the waste water injections, we have a Chamber statement saying: shut them down. The Secretary of State says, "No, I'm gonna leave that Chamber speech beside me." Now the Secretary of State implies that if a natural permit is issued so directly by LNV and the mining permit becomes final, the Secretary of State intends to listen to a ruling of a majority of the House, and then not to implement it. Is that what the Secretary of State says?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u96	The chairman's right. I'm quitting now. I'm quitting what-if now. The cabinet's position is crystal clear. The position of the cabinet is: we await the procedure. Mrs Van der Wal is now looking at whether we can conclude the procedure in a positive or negative way from the nature permit. I will join in with this under the Mining Act. That's point one. The second point is that the Chamber, Mrs Kröger, says: I do not want to wait for that; I would now like to say that it will never happen. I say this: that is risky, in view of the fact that, if there is a permit, it can cost a lot of money. Let's just finish the trial. You're untimely. And that's it. I said that when I was in that debate, I did not see a majority in favour of drilling in Ternaard. Period. That's all I said. That's all. Less than that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u97	The Secretary of State is continuing.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u98	Mr. Chairman. I am passing through the amendments. I promised you that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u99	Did you have the amendment to item No. Mrs Kröger's 25 comments now?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u100	I'll call that another time, but I kind of did, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u101	May I guess it was "dissuade"?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u102	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u103	That's the word I wanted to hear. Just for eternity.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u104	Mr President, you are no longer allowed to participate in this game. The amendment in part No. 9 by Mr Grinwis and Mr Erkens on extending the time limit for the allocation of the search area. Mr Grinwis explained this. I could see that. I would like to say that we can give the amendment a Chamber's opinion. The same is true, but I have just said this in the debate on Amendment No 2. 10 of Mr Erkens. I tasted broad support from the Chamber for that amendment in the first period. The proposal to evaluate already after three years is judged Chamber. Amendment No 13 members of Grinwis and Boulakjar. This is about how the transitional law is regulated. The proposers want to formulate the transitional right between the current licences and the future licences properly. Judgment Room. With the amendment in part No. 15, by Mr Boulakjar, I have a problem. That problem may be solved. The problem is that Mr Boulakjar wants to extend the period of advice for provinces, municipalities and water authorities from six to eight weeks. That could be the case in itself, but that means that we have to move all the deadlines, otherwise the other deadlines will be reduced. If Mr Boulakjar can still follow me. My proposal would therefore be to postpone the other two weeks. I just need to take a closer look at where exactly that has to be done, because that listens closely. In that case, I can give the amendment judgment Chamber. Otherwise, I'm gonna have to discourage it, because there's not enough time left.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u105	A dissuaded amendment would be a shame. If we can change that, I'll definitely consider it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u106	What does that mean?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u107	Yeah, that's a good one, Mr. Chairman. Do I have some time to amend the amendment?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u108	Yeah, you can think about it, too. But I think the Secretary of State is clear. He must discourage the current text, but if you come with a variation in the direction the Secretary of State has just proposed, you will fall into the prices.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u109	I will amend the amendment as it stands.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u110	Very good. That is what we see as an improved amendment to item No. Fifteen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u111	Mr. Chairman. The amendment in part No. 19 also has nothing to do with geothermal energy, but with the Groningen field. Mrs Beckerman will certainly not be surprised that I have to advise against this amendment, although Mrs Beckerman and I fully share the objective as shown last week. I hope, as I said in the debate last week, that I will be able to clarify quickly what date I think is feasible. But I cannot judge this amendment now, simply because it simply cannot be done. But I totally agree with the idea that the field should be closed as soon as possible. Mrs Beckerman should know that after the previous debate. Totally. That brings me to the amendment to item No. 22, by Mr Grinwis and Mr Mulder, on the development of the assessment framework in lower regulation for the application of Section 3.4 of the General Administrative Law Act, follow-up permit. This amendment is judged by Chamber. Then I have come to the amendment to item No. 23 by Mrs Beckerman. That is the amendment on financial security, which we have just discussed for a long time. In this form, I would like to discourage the amendment. But I think we have made an agreement on it, I tell Mrs Beckerman, how she could proceed with it. Mr. Chairman. The amendment in part No. 24 on a mandatory requirement for no penetration by drinking water areas: judgment of Chamber. We have talked about this extensively, and I agree with that. The amendment in part No. 25 on the Wadden Sea: you had just guessed that very well, because I am not going to recommend that amendment. I shall now turn to the amendment No. 26 on the deviation from the advice of Deputy States and informing the Ministry of Infrastructure and Water State: Court of Justice opinion. That's fine. Finally, the amendment to item No. 27 by Mr Erkens on the linking of regulations to a start-up and follow-up permit for drill holes and the development in lower regulations: Court of Justice opinion. I think I have had all the amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u112	Yeah, we're done.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u113	Then I can answer a number of questions in the second term that have remained.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u114	Does this mean that this is the end of your speech in the first term? Yes. Then I'll see if there's a need for a second term. But you don't have to. Do I see Mrs Kröger abandoning it? The first speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mr Erkens of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u115	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I had prepared a lot of motions, but today the Secretary of State has shown an open attitude, for which compliments.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u116	Today is Doe Once Nice Day, we learned from Mrs. Beckerman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u117	Exactly. Mrs Beckerman also congratulated on this. I didn't expect to be standing here and then hear a praise from the SP towards the VVD. But the miracles aren't over, Mr. Chairman. In any case, I am pleased that the Secretary of State agrees that we should ban the penetration of drinking water areas. I am also pleased that better standards will be set for well designs and that all companies will have to comply with them. I believe that this will also help to professionalise the sector. We have also talked about the pilot in North Limburg and about the conditions under which we can apply geothermal energy, or to create clarity quickly if we do not. I would like to ask the Secretary of State on what time he expects it to be possible. Haste is really important for North Limburg and the greenhouse horticulture there. They cannot go there until they can apply geothermal energy and at the same time have to pay high gas prices. Speed is really crucial as far as we're concerned. I have two more questions, but no motions. It was just about whether, if such a permit was issued, then someone else in the same area, for example a greenhouse horticulture company, but also the other way around, for example, if large-scale marketing in a new residential area could be possible, it would be possible to apply for a permit. At the moment, you can't. I wonder if the Secretary of State could elaborate on that. This does not necessarily have to be done now in the legal process, but can also be done later in a letter. Are there any other options? Is sloping to other geothermal heat in the vicinity possible? I'm just thinking creatively. So I'd like to see if there's any room left, because I don't want to lock it down completely either. The second question concerns capacity at the Ministry. The Secretary of State indicated that there are no problems yet. At the same time, we have just discussed in the debate that the number of applications in the past has been very limited. I do need some sort of prognosis of how many applications he expects in the coming years with this licensing system, and also with the adjustment in the SDE++ in the future. And what is the capacity the Ministry needs? I believe that transparency is useful for both the Chamber and the government. I would like to leave it at that, Mr President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u118	Thank you. Then Mrs Kröger from the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u119	Mr. Chairman. Thank you for your response to the law. I have one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that global demand for lithium is increasing, in particular as a result of the electrification of transport;]] [[Whereas common forms of lithium extraction, from salt flats or solid rock, pose risks to biodiversity, the environment and local communities;]] [[Whereas the extraction of lithium from water pumped up for deep geothermal energy could be a relatively clean form of lithium mining which makes the European Union less dependent on imports;]] [[noting that research and demonstration projects have been carried out in several European countries;]] [[calls on the Government to examine the feasibility of lithium extraction in deep geothermal energy in the Netherlands, identifying both environmental and economic and legal aspects,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kröger, Mr Beckerman, Mr Grinwis, Mr Erkens, Mr Bontenbal, Mr Boulakjar and Mr Nijboer.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35531-28]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u120	Then I have for the Secretary of State this booklet, from which comes the idea of lithium mining. It was written by our scientific agency and it contains a lot of ideas for making the transition more sustainable.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u121	We will receive the booklet and hand it over to the Secretary of State for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u122	Finally, a question concerning the Wadden. If I understand correctly, the Secretary of State says: we're dropping the permit, there's a permit, but maybe there won't be a majority. But is it true that the issue of damages claims brought by the Secretary of State, should there be a permit and should a majority vote against the Ternaard project, would at that time be as much on the agenda as when we now, as Chambers, clarify and adopt this amendment? Mr. Chairman. It will not surprise the Secretary of State and the Chamber that we are putting the amendment to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u123	Thank you. Mr Grinwis from the Christian Union Group. Mrs Kröger, we would like your motion. Otherwise, the world will never hear of it again.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u124	Thank you, Mr President. Thanks also to the Secretary of State for his very benevolent and adequate response. The first motion I had prepared, I keep in my pocket. A national measurement network seismicity led by the KNMI has been generously promised. Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u125	The fewer motions, the better.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u126	I know that, Mr President, but I'm going to disappoint you with two real motions. That is because they are a bit at the intersection of the areas of this Secretary of State and the Minister for Climate and Energy. It concerns the SDE. Here they come. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas no sustainable heat project is available in the last two SDE++ rounds of 2020 and 2021, while the heat transition is a significant part of the energy transition and there are many initiatives;]] [[Whereas the current SDE++ systematique is inadequate in promoting, in particular, the heat transition and whereas the adopted motion of Grinwis/Bontenbal (32813), No. 791) insisted on resolving this problem, but that a structural solution should not be implemented until 2023;]] [[calls on the Government to prevent 2022 from becoming a lost year for sustainable heat projects and to ensure that sustainable heat projects are available in this year's SDE++ round, and if this is not possible, an additional autumn round will be launched,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Grinwis, Mr Bontenbal, Mr Erkens and Mr Boulakjar.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35531-29]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u127	Then the final motion, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that 22 sustainable heat projects with the SDE decision are ready for completion, but that these cannot be realised within the SDE period due to delayed authorisation or complexity;]] [[noting that some projects, such as Geothermie Delft project, for which the SDE decision has already been returned and subsequently no new SDE grant has been awarded twice in a row;]] [[whereas the current deadline for the implementation of the SDE is therefore four years, with an extension of one year, insufficiently in line with the practice of geothermal projects;]] [[Calls on the Government to consider whether it is possible to resolve existing geothermal projects that are at risk by providing a solution to the current maximum implementation period in the SDE++;]] [[calls on the Government to consider, for future SDE decisions, the possibility of a four-year implementation period plus a possible two-year extension, as soon as possible and in any event before the opening of the SDE round of 2023,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Grinwis and Mr Erkens.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35531-30]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u128	That's it, Mr. Chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u129	Very good. Thank you. Mrs. Beckerman of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u130	Mr. Chairman. We need an affordable, good and sustainable energy supply. It is simply not enough to say: we had something that was gray and now go to something that is green and then it's good. I'm glad the Chamber is making strict demands on geothermal energy. I also welcome the space left by the Secretary of State to go along with it. I do worry a lot about the fact that the energy bill for people is now sky high. That's also much quoted here. We must also prevent this from happening with a lot of public money, but then the risks are for society again. I have tabled an amendment to that effect. The Secretary of State asked if I could change that. I'm gonna do that, but I'm gonna make a motion on that, too. I think we really have too many projects where the risks are for us, but the profits are private. It also struck me a little bit that Mr Grinwis is now walking away so easily to Mr Kops said: well, then we are no longer dependent on Russia and then we do it in our own country. Oh, there's Mr Grinwis again. If we do it in our own country, it does not automatically mean that the money is also for the public. That's not automatism. We also know that geothermal energy is done by large companies. So, well, well... It's not an attack, Mr. Grinwis, but I wanted to make this point anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u131	Very briefly, isn't it, Mr Grinwis?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u132	I'm very much in favour of local ownership. I think I share that with Mrs Beckerman and the SP. With this bill, EBN, our own policy participation, comes standard in every initiative.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u133	Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u134	And the greenhouse growers do it themselves. So a lot of projects are being dealt with in the country.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u135	Clear, clear. Yes. Your motion, Mrs. Beckerman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u136	Sure. Well, that is very constructive, so I think Mr Grinwis is going to vote in favour of all these proposals. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that residents around geothermal projects are concerned about the consequences of these mining activities;]] [[Whereas experience of residents, municipalities and provinces around current geothermal projects is available;]] [[calls on the government to take into account the experiences of residents, municipalities and provinces in the development and evaluation of new geothermal projects,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Beckerman, Mr Kröger, Mr Bontenbal, Mr Erkens, Mr Van Raan and Mr Grinwis.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35531-31]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u137	My second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas monitoring is crucial for the safety of geothermal projects;]] [[noting the need for standards to be set independently in order to ensure proper enforcement;]] [[calls on the Government to work out how State supervision of the Mines sets standards for geothermal energy on which, inter alia, supervision will be based,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Beckerman, Mr Kröger, Mr Van Raan and Mr Grinwis.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35531-32]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u138	My third motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas a great deal of experience has been gained in mining activities in the Netherlands, with unfortunately painful lessons learned;]] [[noting the importance of knowledge;]] [[noting that geothermal energy is still in its infancy;]] [[calls on the government to invest in an independent scientific knowledge programme of geothermal energy,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Beckerman, Mr Kröger and Mr Van Raan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35531-33]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u139	My final motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, in the event of possible bankruptcies in the geothermal sector, costs remain;]] [[noting that the Community should not pay for this;]] [[calls on the Government to develop a guarantee fund to which companies contribute, which can be used in the event of a bankruptcy of a geothermal company,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Beckerman.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35531-34]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u140	So I am weakening the amendment, as the Secretary of State wanted, but I would add this last motion to prevent society from paying double. And I'd like those answers to the questions I asked about Horst. That's where seven tons of the Empire has to be paid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u141	Mr Boulakjar of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u142	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I liked the debate. The room's gonna be a little empty. I've got two more motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Review Recommendations State of SodM's Geothermal Sector (2021) indicates that companies must and can raise the bar;]] [[noting that the sector assumes its own responsibility by, among other things, drawing up industry standards, as has been done for the industry standard Sustainable Put Design;]] [[calls on the government to call on the sector to continue to develop industry standards, agreements and procedural arrangements, and invites the government to support the sector in doing so,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Boulakjar and Mr Grinwis.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35531-35]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u143	My second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas people enjoy a pristine wadden nature day in, day out;]] [[Whereas the Wadden Sea has been designated as a UNESCO World Heritage Site;]] [[Whereas ongoing procedures are being completed;]] [[calls on the Government not to issue a new licence for gas extraction under the Wadden Sea,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Boulakjar, Mr Tjeerd de Groot and Mr Grinwis.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35531-36]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u144	I tried to get Mrs Kröger's signature under this motion, but she doesn't want to. However, I can see that she still wants to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u145	I hope that Mrs Kröger will make a new point.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u146	My question to Mr Boulakjar concerns the last motion. The motion refers to 'new permits'. Then it's not about Ternard.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u147	Ternard is an ongoing procedure. In principle, this is also a new permit, because there is no permit yet. We'll wait for that procedure. That's what I'm saying in the motion. We also exchanged this with each other in the debate. We'll be waiting very carefully for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u148	Rounding, short, pointy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u149	So this motion is purely about new permits and is, in that sense, simply the phrase from the coalition agreement in a motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u150	"The phrase from the coalition chord" It is a very strong sentence and it will have great advantages for the Wadden region. I do not see it as a sentence but as a very important incentive to stop mining activities in the Wadden Sea.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u151	Here, GroenLinks, of course, has a point. This is just in the coalition agreement. Either the motion does something, or the motion doesn't do anything, but I think it's a phrase from the coalition agreement. If we are going to table motions in this way, I do remember a lot of motions, because there are a lot of phrases in the coalition agreement, including, for example, the production of gas in the North Sea and so on. Does this motion do anything other than the coalition agreement? Otherwise, the motion seems superfluous to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u152	It is indeed a continuation of a text from the coalition agreement. I want that clear again today. I've been talking about klip-and-ready. I thought it was necessary, also in view of the debate with Mrs Kröger and the amendment tabled. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u153	Thank you. Mr Bontenbal from the CDA Group. He's the last speaker on the side of the Chamber. Can we listen to the Secretary of State right away?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u154	Mr President, I think I am too late to now make all kinds of sentences from the coalition agreement... There really are a lot of great phrases in that coalition agreement, but okay. The great thing about this debate is that I think we are all convinced that geothermal energy is important, that we need it and that it is going to be part of the sustainable energy supply of the future. There are estimates that up to 25% of heat demand could be filled in by geothermal energy. That may be a little optimistic, but it does indicate the potential. It might even be up to 50% in greenhouse horticulture. There are 70 geothermal projects on the list, so it is a very vibrant sector and it is important that this bill also matures that sector. I do not have any motions, and that is also because I have signed a number of colleagues. We are working with the SP tonight, with GroenLinks and with the Christian Union, so that's how you see it, president: the CDA is always working with all the constructive forces in this Chamber. Maybe something about innovation. There was a motion about scientific research. I didn't sign it, but I find it interesting in itself. There are quite a few startups that do much more innovative things in the field of geothermal energy. I mention, for example, a small company like Eavor, which works with a closed loop of geothermal energy, so that's different from what's happening now. But Quaise Energy, too, is also a startup, worldwide, that drills very deep, 10 to 20 km deep. How do we ensure that we also monitor and perhaps develop such innovative forms of geothermal energy in the Netherlands? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u155	Thank you. You really don't have to apologize if you don't make any motions. That's a bit of the reverse world, but this aside. I'm gonna suspend until 9:00, and then we're gonna listen to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u156	I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u157	First of all, many thanks to the Chamber for the questions and the motions. Mr Bontenbal asked what would happen to the liability of EBN if it left the project after five years. If EBN participates, it participates until the end of the project. So you can't quit the project after five years. That's the answer. Is the Secretary of State prepared to investigate the feasibility of lithium in combination with deep geothermal energy? There is already a study of lithium concentration in the Netherlands by TU Delft. I would like to agree with Mrs Kröger that we should look at whether we are going to carry out further research and, if so, in what direction. Then the €700,000 of the project in Horst. The SodM will file the bill for cleaning up with the curator by means of a recovery decision. Mrs Beckerman had a good feeling about that. At least, she had the wrong feeling, but the good feeling about the wrong feeling, namely that selling the property will probably not be enough to pay the whole amount. But that's not clear yet. On what time is a pilot possible in North Limburg? I am now looking at the financing of that pilot on the basis of a proposal from TNO and EBN. If that is done, then we can start this year. Mr Boulakjar asked: how many licence applications are expected under the new law? How much capacity is needed for treatment? Oh, I think Mr. Erkens asked this. There can be no exact numbers. The aim of the bill is to speed up the process. But I think it is wise for me to come back to that in one of the debates on mining in the coming year and then give an overview. I think that is what Mr Erkens asked. Then there is the most difficult question: if permits are granted, are there opportunities for other initiators? A licence shall not only be delimited horizontally but also vertically. This indeed means that it is possible that several initiatives in different vertical layers could win among themselves. The short answer to Mr Erkens' creative idea is, if I understand correctly, that it is possible. Mr. Chairman. Then I have the motions. The motion in part No. Mrs Kröger's 28 on lithium research has been judged Chamber. After completing that reconnaissance, which I was talking about, we'll see how we can shape the follow-up investigation. So it's not a question of whether or not it's a question of whether it's a question of whether it's a question This will take into account both environmental and economic and legal aspects. Then I have two motions on the SDE++. As regards the motion in part No. 29 I would like to ask the proposers, Grinwis, Bontenbal, Erkens and Boulakjar, to hold them until the Minister for Climate and Energy comes up with the relevant letters.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u158	The proposers are prepared to do so. I would like to point out that this is an important signal from the authors to the letter writers.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u159	I'll relay the signal to my neighbor.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u160	It's a huge signal.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u161	At the request of Mr Grinwis, I propose his motion (35531), No. 29). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u162	The motion in part No. 30 on SDE++ I can give judgment Room. In the motion in part No. 31 the government is invited to take the experience of residents, municipalities and provinces into account in the development and evaluation of new geothermal projects. This motion will be judged by Chamber. The motion in part No. 32 of Beckerman c.s. About SodM gets judgment Chamber if I may read the motion in such a way that SodM assesses the standards. I see I'm allowed to read the motion. The motion in part No. I can do 33 by Mrs Beckerman. I can give this motion judgment Chamber if Mrs Beckerman agrees to include this in the Knowledge Programme Effects Mining. So there's not going to be a separate knowledge program of geothermals. There is no separate funding for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u163	Mrs Beckerman, short and pointy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u164	Yeah, that's how the Secretary of State gets to read the motion. That can be done at the moment, but there is hardly any geothermal activity in it, hence this supplementary motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u165	Then the judgment is Chamber, because that's what we're going to promote. That is the purpose of the motion. The motion in part No. In fact, 34 of Mrs Beckerman's amendments are in line with her to amend or amend her amendment. There is one problem, and that is in the operative part: ask the government to develop a guarantee fund. This seems to make the decision to set up a guarantee fund, but I would not go that far. If Mrs Beckerman could change that part of the operative part to 'calls on the government to examine whether a guarantee fund is going to be used'............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The question to Mrs Beckerman would therefore be whether she could change the motion in that direction. Otherwise, I'm going to dissuade the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u166	Yes, I do, but of course we have to come up with the right wording. So, requests the government...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u167	... examine the possibilities for a guarantee fund to which companies contribute...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u168	Agreed.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u169	So we have an amended motion from Mrs Beckerman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u170	Then there is the Boulakjar/Grinwis motion on item No. 35 on industry standards: judgment Chamber. Finally, Mr Boulakjar's motion, Mr de Groot and Mr Grinwis' motion for a resolution (Doc. 36: Judgment Room. Mr. Chairman. That's how I dealt with all nine motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u171	Yes! Thank you very much to the Secretary of State for his always accurate explanation and his presence this evening. So much for this debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-17-tweedekamer-11.u172	We are voting on Tuesday on the motions and the amendments and on the amendment of the Mining Act itself. Everyone's home. Watch the storm.
