ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-3.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy, and of course my colleagues and our support, for the two-minute debate on or following the main debate with the Minister of EZK. First of all, I would like to give the floor to Mr Van Haga, but he is not here. So I'm not gonna do that. I shall then be the first to give the floor to Mr Van Strien of the VVD for his two minutes. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-3.u2	Good morning. There's one minute left on the clock, but there's two of them, I take it. That one minute was before Van Haga. Thank you. Mr President, thank you. It was a nice debate that we had with the Minister in February. We talked about innovation, the earning capacity of SMEs, smart sustainability, the valorisation of ecosystems and entrepreneurship. Those are all terms for which you can wake me up at night, if you need it. Overall, the VVD believes that the Minister is on the right track to strengthen our earning capacity. But as far as we're concerned, it has to be a little faster on parts, a little smarter. That's why I'm tabling two motions today. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Cabinet is currently drawing up plans to strengthen our earning capacity and increase economic growth;]] [[noting that driving innovation to achieve these objectives is crucial;]] [[Considering that much innovation in the Netherlands is not, or cannot progress too slowly, due to local, regional or national regulations;]] [[noting that if our regulations are more burdensome than those of our neighbouring countries, there is a risk of a competitive disadvantage;]] [[Calls on the Government to examine whether, and in what way, non-regulatory experimental spaces can contribute to speeding up the development, introduction and growth of sustainable and innovative products, services and revenue models, and to inform the Court of Justice of the establishment climate action plan, which it will send to the Chamber before the summer,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Strien, Mr Amhaouch and Mr Graus.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XIII-91]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-3.u3	Since the committee has considered it, we have been called upon to table motions. I have a similar motion. I would like to make this motion, which has just been tabled, in order to avoid administrative burdens. I notice that coalition parties continue to table a lot of motions, whereas we, as opposition parties, are trying to slow it down. I would therefore like to co-sign this motion. Then I can leave mine out of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-3.u4	Let me take a look at Mr Van Strien.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-3.u5	I'm thrilled!
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-3.u6	Well, that's good.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-3.u7	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-3.u8	Kumbaya, and we're moving on. Proceed with your second motion. See what happens next.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-3.u9	The second, and then I also look at Mr Graus with a oblique eye, of course. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Cabinet is currently busy drawing up plans to strengthen our earning capacity and increase economic growth;]] [[Considering that cooperation at national, provincial, local and departmental level is crucial to achieving these objectives;]] [[noting that the opportunities in areas such as energy and climate transitions, technology, digitalisation and infrastructure are not being properly addressed as long as there is no proper cooperation;]] [[calls on the Government to examine how EZK can take a more active, central and coordinating role towards other governments and departments in order to strengthen our future earning capacity, and to inform the Court of Justice of this at the latest in the establishment climate action plan, which it sends to the Chamber before the summer,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Strien, Mr Amhaouch and Mr Graus.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XIII-92]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-3.u10	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-3.u11	Thank you very much. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Teunissen of the Party for Animals. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-3.u12	Mr. Chairman. I look back on a good general debate. We have asked, among other things, what the economy of the future looks like. In addition, the Party for Animals has also asked questions at the large megadata centers. They do not fit, as far as we are concerned, in an economy of the future, because they have a disproportionate impact on energy and space. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the planned construction of a huge data centre in Zeewolde overtakes energy supply, fertile agricultural land and scarce freshwater supply and also leads to growing local resistance;]] [[Whereas opening a data centre in Zeewolde at the end is not in the general interest and contrary to the coalition agreement on (hyperscale) data centres and good spatial design;]] [[points out that the construction of the data centre in Zeewolde should be cancelled;]] [[calls on the government to make every effort to prevent the construction of the data centre in Zeewolde, for example by not selling state grounds and using its public law powers,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Teunissen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XIII-93]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-3.u13	Mr. Chairman. I have a second motion on limits to growth. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Club of Rome called 50 years ago for recognition of the limits to growth;]] [[Whereas economic growth as a goal of policy and failure to respect the ecological boundaries of our planet has led us to be in a climate and biodiversity crisis;]] [[Whereas an economy moving within ecological and social boundaries should be the starting point for policy;]] [[noting that fundamental choices are needed to limit global warming to a maximum of 1.5 degrees;]] [[calls on the Government to recognise the limits to economic growth and to use environmental and social boundaries as a basis for policy,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Teunissen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XIII-94]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-3.u14	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-3.u15	Thank you. I am going to give the floor to Mr Amhaouch of the CDA. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-3.u16	Mr. Chairman. It has been a while since we had the main debate, but it is good that we can discuss a number of issues in a two-minute debate today. In any case, I have taken into account from the main debate that the Minister has a lot of positive energy and many ambitions, including to implement the coalition agreement, and that he wants to take new steps on a number of issues. Mr. Chairman. The CDA has no motions, so I apologize, Mr. Graus; I have no motions and you cannot co-sign them. However, I would like to draw attention to a number of issues. The first point. The CDA sees real short-term problems for companies still in debt from the corona crisis. I therefore ask the Minister once again when she comes up with a plan or informs entrepreneurs about it, as we also agreed in the government agreement. In addition, last week the Board of Appeal for Industry issued a ruling on the TVL and SBI codes. Does the Minister intend to take this decision to heart and inform those affected? We are not concerned that it will all be resolved tomorrow, but it must be resolved. Can the Minister make a commitment on this? We have often called for attention to be paid to the harrowing cases and to the companies that fall between shore and ship. Mr. Chairman. At the beginning of this week we had a nice debate on the National Growth Fund. Once again, we insist on making our own plan for strengthening strategic autonomy. Is the Minister coming with a letter to the Chamber stating how we're going to do that? What is our view of that? This afternoon we have the debate on the European summit. I'll put this back in there. It is part of the agenda of the French Presidency. What's our answer to that? Then the last one, Mr. Chairman. We all see the war between Russia and Ukraine. Fortunately, in Europe, we have collectively imposed harsh sanctions, but that also means that Dutch industry has been hit from one day to the next. Is this minister prepared to stand alongside these entrepreneurs? Can we help them in any way? Whether regulation or licensing is possible: I do not know, but let us talk to these companies and ensure that these often strong international companies are not left to their fate. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-3.u17	I thank you and give the floor to Mr Graus of the PVV. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-3.u18	Mr. Chairman. I can be very brief, because I do not have to table my motions. Mr Van Strien's and Mr Amhaouch's motions were my co-signatory; thank you for that. I'd still like to make a compliment. Most of the time, we're here alone whining and whining, but so far, I've enjoyed working with the new minister and with the new MPs. I miss the building on the Square and the view I had there. Here I have a room now, but I think a prisoner has even more and a better view. It reminds me of the wall of Jos Vandeloo. I'm really looking at a wall. But I really appreciate the cooperation, and I want to thank you for that. In the old building, I have argued for 15 years: let us get together more for the benefit of animals, for the benefit of SMEs, for the benefit of KLM. Now there is finally a young generation who doesn't just have that political board in mind, but also thinks: Oh yes, we are working with the devil and his old nut and even with Graus to achieve something for SMEs in the Netherlands. Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-3.u19	Yeah, an emotional story. I almost didn't keep it dry when I thought about the old building. Anyway, we have to move on. I call Mr Thijssen of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-3.u20	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have a motion. And before that, I have another question for the Minister. Because this cabinet came out of the starting blocks rather late, with a year of forming. And now it has very ambitious goals to achieve, for example, the climate objectives. For that, Minister Jetten said: I want to have all the plans of all the trade ministries in line on my desk, because then I can send it to the Planning Office in time for it to be passed on, and then we will know this autumn whether the cabinet is on course. But in the debate, in the main debate or in another debate, it appeared, for example, that the plans for green steel come from Tata sometime in the summer - which sounds like after 1 May. And then I think: then things will go wrong in the first year, and we will have a whole year of delay before we know if this cabinet is actually on course. I would like a response from the Minister: what is she going to do on 1 May, and do we know that the largest sector, which causes the most pollution, is going to reduce enough, namely industry? And then I have one more motion. We talked about green industrial policy. I think this is exactly what the Minister should do, so I hope for the support of the Chamber. The motion for a resolution on the Green Industrial Policy: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the government has the objective of turning the Netherlands into a predominantly fossil economy, an economy based on renewable energy;]] [[Whereas, in addition to the sharp reduction of CO pollution, biodiversity needs to be restored and the economy needs to become circular;]] [[noting that the RLI also states in an opinion that sustainable growth can be achieved if only investments are made in activities that fit the transition to a CO-neutral, resource-poor and nature-inclusive economy;]] [[calls on the government to develop a vision that makes Dutch society climate-neutral, resource-poor and nature-positive, to have different scenarios worked out, to share it with the Chamber,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Thijssen and Mr Kröger.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XIII-95]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-3.u21	Mr. Chairman. It's a nice motion, I'd say, so you can hardly argue with that. But I remember Mr Thijssen also talking about transition jobs, in my view in the main debate. I do not know whether it was Mr Thijssen or another colleague, but that was indeed about creating the jobs that go with it during that transition that we must continue. So not another plug policy, in which we pull the plugs out and jobs are lost. Is that part of your initiative, too, your motion? So as well as that transition and the preservation or transformation of jobs?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-3.u22	Well, I'm from the Labour Party, so those work plans are crucial and very important to the Labour Party. And the good news is, if we switch to a green economy, that generates more jobs than a fossil economy. So macroeconomically it will be fantastic for the workers, and also for the Labour Party in the coming years. Problem is, or the challenge is, that a lot of people who now have a fossil job will have to learn skills for a new job. They're either gonna have to make a switch, or they're gonna have to change the company. And that is why the Labour Party also calls for a working guarantee fund, to be sure that these people, who are now working in the fossil economy, can move to green jobs while retaining their income.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-3.u23	That is actually coming in the direction, but I do not think we should just stick to that macro-economic approach. That is what we saw in the corona era: macroeconomically, the economy didn't come out much worse, and yet entrepreneurs were hit. Does this also mean that employers' and employees' organisations should be involved in these plans? Because then we are not just talking about the macro-economic piece, we are really talking about keeping jobs.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-3.u24	I think it would be very good if the workers' organisations, the trade unions, were involved in this. To be honest, it is also very good for the Earth to have a say in the whole process, so that the environmental movement is also involved, because it is ultimately about creating an economy within the planetary boundaries. And the employers can also join, except for the fossil industry. Because in the short term, the fossil industry wants to profit from more fossil fuels, while it is necessary to meet the climate targets, to get rid of fossil fuels. So maybe they can play a role in the execution. If they want to build a wind farm at sea, that's fine, but in shaping climate policy, the fossil industry has nothing to do with us.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-3.u25	Thank you. I call Mr Van Haga, of the Van Haga Group. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-3.u26	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I apologize for not being here. And there's a reason. Four years ago, on the occasion of the Bishop Commission, all of you decided that split-ups would have little money for support, half the speaking time and no voting rights in committees. This means that we have almost no employees. The employees we have are heavily underpaid. As a result, it is absolutely impossible for me to carry out my duties properly as a Member of Parliament. Mr Pieter Omtzigt made a very nice speech about this the other day. So I don't have any motions. It's all falling into the water. I hope you realize that Pieter Ommzigt has received 330,000 votes. I got 241,000 votes. That is more than all the colleagues in this Chamber put together. The result is this: no motions, no text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-3.u27	Thank you very much. Then I am going to give the Minister five minutes to think about her response to these motions and the questions asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-3.u28	Let's move on. Excuse me, Minister, I didn't see you standing by. I call the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-3.u29	Mr. Chairman. Mobile devices can sometimes require a lot of attention. Thank you for the lovely debate we have had. In my response to the motions and the questions that have been asked, I will keep the order of the speakers. First of all, the motion in part No. 91 by Mr Van Strien. He asked whether we would like to investigate whether, and if so, how we could create some more experimental space to give more space for innovation. I'd be happy to pass that motion on to the Court of Justice. We're gonna investigate this. We're also looking at that in the control printing program. In the letter on the establishment policy I was just looking for where the nice hook is. I'll get back to you on that. So we will certainly look at obstructive regulation in this area, but we will also look at where we could encourage it. The motion in part No. Mr Van Strien spoke about the more active, coordinating role of the Ministry and the Minister for EZK. I like to pick up that glove. I'd like to give the motion judgment room. We work very much with the departments, with the governments, as you know. I come with a letter on the location and business environment. I will also agree with the other departments and I will inform you about this before the summer. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to Mrs Teunissen's two motions. The first motion, the motion in part No. 93, it's about the data centers. I would ask Mrs Teunissen to hold on to it, because the motion concerns the portfolio of my colleague, the Minister for VRO. Otherwise, I'd be sitting in his chair right now, and that's not correct.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-3.u30	There is an interruption for you from Mrs Teunissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-3.u31	I find it difficult, because this also has a huge impact on economic policy. Moreover, the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy is also working on the location climate. Partly because of her department, this data center has arrived. So that's what it's all about. Its policy also has a huge impact on spatial policy and energy supply in the future. So I would like to say that I am not holding the motion, because it is important that we take a decision on this within this committee too. It is indeed relevant.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-3.u32	I have a brief response to Mrs Teunissen's words. We have written in the coalition agreement that we feel it is necessary to have more direction. So in that sense, I think we agree that there needs to be more direction. The decision-making process was, of course, at a different level. Yes, we are dealing with the sale of the land. So there is a point for Mrs Teunissen. But that's what we're looking at right now. Moreover, my colleague for VRO has now also issued a kind of moratorium in order not to allow things to happen in the meantime. You could conclude from that that we agree in some sense that we need to look very critically at that. But I will stick to my request for the motion to be held. If that doesn't happen, I have to discourage the motion for that reason.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-3.u33	The motion in part No. 93 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-3.u34	I would like to make a brief comment. It's also a "spoken" motion. That's another reason why I don't want to hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-3.u35	Yeah, exactly. So, strictly speaking, it doesn't need to be judged by the cabinet, but we always like to hear it. Minister, please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-3.u36	Then I come to Mrs Teunissen's second motion. That's the motion in part No. 94 to promote the limits to growth. I fully agree with her starting point that we are now in a kind of tilting phase, where we see very well that we have reached our limits or are reaching them. I have already indicated this in several debates. I also believe that there have been very good statements in the coalition agreement. This is a guiding principle for all departments and all ministers and secretaries of state. That's what's well anchored. So in that sense, Mrs Teunissen is actually asking for a different kind of translation of those objectives. I think we're aiming for the same thing. I'm really serious about that. However, I am not going to go back to the principles that we have defined, because then we are constantly rewording objectives, when we mean the same thing. So that's why I'm gonna have to dissuade the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-3.u37	The motion in part No. 94 is not recommended. I shall come back to the motion on part No. 93. Mrs Teunissen and I have said it wrong, because this motion is indeed a request to the government. It is not just a "spoken" motion, so the government's opinion on this has to be seen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-3.u38	I'd like to see if the Minister and I speak the same language. Mrs Teunissen's motion states, on the one hand, that the footprint is becoming too large. We have to set limits to that. But I believe that economic growth is still an objective in itself. Our future earning capacity, which we had a debate on Monday, means that we want to continue to finance our welfare state, care, education, our police force. So I'm going to ask the Minister how she rhymes with the motion just now. Is she also saying that we must stop economic growth? Or does she also mean that emissions and footprint should be reduced but that we still have to work on our economic growth in order to finance everything?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-3.u39	Mr Amhaouch says it correctly. That is also one of the reasons why we cannot support the motion. The aim, Mrs Teunissen's starting point, is that our footprint is getting too big. We all agree, so we agree. But it is true that economic growth is needed, also in order to achieve all the ambitions we have in this country and to maintain a certain level of prosperity. That is partly an argument to discourage that motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-3.u40	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-3.u41	Then I came to Mr Amhaouch's questions. He first asks when there will be a plan for dealing with debt. We are currently putting the finishing touches to that. I expect that at the beginning of April I do not dare to mention the exact date, because you never know it should certainly be feasible to respond to that. The second question was a request for a commitment, what we are going to do with the last CBb ruling on the TVL. We have to look at that very seriously, so yes, I'll say that. We are already analysing what this statement means. I do not think it is right to go into that now; let us make a full analysis. I'll be sure to report to your room how we deal with that statement. Then I come to strategic autonomy, and there is no doubt that we both agree with the importance of this. So yes, we put our shoulders underneath. We are really doing all we can to achieve this in a European context, but also in a Dutch context. I shall take a look at what I have received; perhaps I should repeat it in the same way as we discussed it with each other on Monday. Strategic autonomy is super important. At the moment, this is all the more so because we see how dependent we really are and how important it is that we take care of our own economy, as the Netherlands but also European. At European level, we are working on it, but also, for example, when we talk about economic security and where we need to invest. This is about protecting and promoting. So on the one hand it's about protecting what we have; we shouldn't think too lightly about that, especially at this time. But it is also about promoting what we can do to stimulate our economy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-3.u42	Thank you to the Minister for replying and good that it is so important. In fact, I secretly assume that it is already written in the Ministry, that we can get a letter on what is the vision and the commitment of the cabinet. Because this is one of the priorities under the French Presidency and we in the Netherlands must have an answer to that. It would be nice if the House were to be taken into account what that vision of strategic autonomy is in the Netherlands in the short and medium term. What will be our commitment?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-3.u43	I would certainly like to return to that in writing. I'll also show you an overview of all the letters I'm going to send to your room. I am looking a little for the logical coherence of things, so I ask Mr Amhaouch to allow me to look for a logical place and perhaps not come up with a separate letter on this subject, but try to take it with me on another subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-3.u44	I see Mr Amhaouch nodding. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-3.u45	Mr. Chairman. Mr Amhaouch also asked about the sanctions and to what extent we are helping companies to deal with them, on the one hand, in the present and future, how they can adapt their production processes and their supply lines, move their relations and perhaps also their location. It's being worked on incredibly hard. I stopped by the RVO last week. The telephone is there and there are a lot of people there who are talking to the entrepreneurs who are involved. On the one hand about what the sanctions are: what am I allowed to do and what am I not allowed to do? But on the other hand, how do I deal with this for the short and long term? We are in contact with entrepreneurs themselves, but there are also all kinds of round tables that are organised, including VNO-NCW, SMEs Netherlands and other sectors, to help them deal with this as best we can. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to Mr De Jong, but he had not really asked a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-3.u46	He didn't say anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-3.u47	Yeah, I got him on my list. I see you too, so you are present, but I will leave you with the answer. Mr Graus also made a comment. I come to Mr Thijssen. You asked about the relationship with the date of 1 May and whether we are going to achieve the objective. Two things are very important. One. Industry achieves the objectives set. With our policy of making industry more sustainable, we are going to speed it up and make sure that we get more. But on the basis of the analyses of the PBL, industry is going to achieve the objective. This is mainly due to the CO levy. So that's not where the pain is. At least there is pain, but not with these goals. However, we believe that we need to do more, and that is why we are going to look at tailor-made arrangements. That is also because we think that we are developing technology and knowledge, with which we can also continue other accelerations. In the letter that my colleague for Climate and Energy is going to send to the Chamber at the beginning of May, there will also be an industrial paragraph explaining this. The concerns, as far as you have them in this area, I can take them away. That doesn't mean we don't have a lot of work to do and that it's enough already. I think we can agree on that. The second. The motion in part No. Mr Thijssen's 95 was somewhat in line with what Mrs Teunissen asked. This is about the discussion on objectives. I actually wanted to give the same kind of answer. On the basis, we agree with the starting point that we have reached the limits to growth when it comes to its impact on the environment, on the environment and on biodiversity. There's no doubt about that. However, we have translated it into the coalition agreement and are continuing to do so. In doing so, we do see growth as necessary in order to achieve the objectives, as I have just explained. That's why I'm gonna have to dissuade the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-3.u48	Mr Thijssen has an interruption for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-3.u49	The debate focused on the question of which economy and which society we want to build for 2040 and 2050, and then on the policy that goes with it. We have talked about this vision, but it has not yet been crystallized by the cabinet. That is what my motion calls for, especially to do so. I also have something about the timing. The PBL has indeed looked at the coalition agreement, but found that it is still too vague to pass on. In my view, the cabinet is always saying that it is not yet calculable and that it will come up with more concrete plans on 1 May. Now I am told that the plans are already concrete enough. In my view, the plans need to be made even more concrete, so that the package can be passed on to the PBL on 1 May. How do you rhyme with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-3.u50	I stand here for the importance of business, in the broad sense of the word. Emissions are mainly industrial, so that is where we need to reduce emissions. These objectives are achieved with the measures we have now put in place. This does not mean that all the objectives are achieved across the full spectrum of what we are doing in the Netherlands. I think that's what that means. In industry it has been going on for quite a long time; that is what is happening. That's also the answer, because that's my wallet right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-3.u51	Mr Thijssen. No? Proceed, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-3.u52	I think I'm through. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-3.u53	Good. That concludes this two-minute debate. I thank the Minister, the members and the support. I'm suspending for a few moments. The meeting will then continue with a debate on the development of purchasing power and rising energy prices.
