ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-12.u1	The next item is the debate on the law on the strengthening of central accounts (35298). I would like to welcome the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations, as well as the spokesmen and the people who are following this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-12.u2	I shall be the first to give the floor to Mr Strolenberg, VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-12.u3	Thank you, Mr President. I know from my own experience, after 12 years as a city councilman and sixteen years as a waterboardman, that many city councils and waterboard managers are failing themselves and do not know and make insufficient use of the instrument of the Court of Auditors. That probably doesn't apply to all municipalities and water boards, but my estimate is that there are many. I'm sure that has something to do with "unknown unloved." I hope that the new representatives of the people, particularly in their work programme, will be well supported and encouraged to know and use the instrument. The same applies to citizens, because they can also call on their local audit office and make suggestions for research. Monitoring the effectiveness, effectiveness and legality of the administration and policies through social and administrative changes that have a major impact on the municipal tasks are more important than ever. Having said that, there is a law before us to strengthen the decentralised audit chambers. That's important. For the government plays an important role in ensuring that in each municipality read: each province and every waterboard.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... We need to ensure that there's a proper setup of audit rooms. I specifically zoom in on the independent position and sufficient budget. I'm getting to the independent position. In the context of the controlling role of representatives of the people, independent auditing is extremely important for local authorities. The money spent in municipal, provincial and waterboard budgets involves a lot of tax money. We need to be critical of that, just like the budget we spend at home. In addition, municipalities have been given more tasks over the years. Research is therefore becoming increasingly important. The question then is how this research should be designed. In the Netherlands, we are actually seeing a changing picture in the work of audit chambers. On the one hand, there are municipalities that do not give serious interpretation to the accounting function. On the other hand, there are office functions that function very well. There are, of course, also check rooms that function poorly and check rooms that function well. Stand on it. I have spent a number of years on a committee of auditors myself, in mixed form. It consisted of two internal members from the city council and three external members. That was at the beginning of my council time. In fact, it is only gradually that I have noticed that accounting committees are sometimes politically controlled. For example, it was about the way in which the subjects were chosen, but also sometimes the scope of the research or the writing down of the findings or findings. Later I talked to the chairman of the committee and asked him: do you recognize that image? He confirmed that feeling and those suspicions, and he also indicated that the same thing happened in comparable audit chambers, which he was chairman of at the time. Later, the new council, it was about the municipality of Hoogeveen, decided in all wisdom to make the Court of Auditors consist of only external members, precisely in order to guarantee more independence. At first I myself as a councilman had a bit of my reservations. I thought: how do they get to the issues and will the board remain sufficiently connected? None of this was necessary at all, because the external members of the Audit Board were perfectly able to make the connection with the city council and the Audit Board itself. They did this, among other things, by going round, joining the group meetings, attending meetings in the public gallery, but also through interactive sessions, by regularly talking to the audit committee, or, for example, by joining the group chairmen' meeting. So in that sense, that was actually very good. They also took interviews with council members to get information about how things are going and they also used the Registry as an important link in communication. In addition, they stood, I liked that too, more silently rather than with the other reports at the position of the council itself. If you have a joint committee, you sit there as a councilman and you talk about your own functioning or the functioning of your colleagues, it can sometimes be quite obstructive. You saw in those investigations that very often also with external members was specifically zoomed in on the role of the council. It was sometimes too short, for example when it comes to the controlling function or, for example, a good framework function. Because, yes, if you're going to burn down classes if they don't do their job properly and you yourself haven't outlined the frameworks properly, there's obviously a responsibility there. I have spoken with several members of the Courts in the Netherlands since I took office last September. At first I thought I was going to make my maiden speech in September. Anyway, in the end, we're in May. The image of council members about audit chambers is very varied, but on the basis of my experience and also of the committee's supporters, I am in favour of making them work independently. I would therefore very much like to endorse the proposal to abolish the audit function. Court of Auditors work must be properly and independently picked up. This can best be done by an independent audit room. It is said that the legislative proposal undermines the autonomy of the municipalities, but I believe that this kind of investigation should be carried out in full independence. The bill does not change the space that municipalities and municipal councils have when it comes to making policies. That really is municipal autonomy. Of course, it is important to involve council members in the work of the Courts of Auditors. Municipalities can make further choices about how the council members are involved in the work, for example through separate committees or a sounding board group. I also expect, for example, from the Dutch Association of Courts of Auditors and Court of Auditors committees that they will also actively guide the way in which this can be properly implemented. Finally, the second is sufficient budget. Nearly every member of a Court of Auditors I spoke to brought it up: the budget is inadequate. The pieces of the bill also just show that budgets fell by 15% in 2011-2015. Although every municipality is autonomous in making political choices, I do not want to take away their budget rights, but I would like to outline my observation. In my own municipality, I have seen that there is now €0.28 per inhabitant available for accountant research. This comes for a municipality with 56,000 inhabitants on a research budget of about €15,000. That is, I think, for such a large municipality with a budget of 200 million on the lean side. I see this in the rest of Drenthe, where about half of the municipalities spend less than €1.00. Finally, I would very much like to see an overview of what is being spent per municipality on calculation room research, put away per inhabitant. I think it would also be wise, while respecting municipal autonomy, to consult the Association of Courts of Auditors and Court of Auditors in order to determine the amount per inhabitant per municipality would be sufficient to carry out an independent investigation. Such an overview and insight, a real indicative budget, could stimulate municipal councils and also help to look at a sufficient equipment of their control tool. I would also like to receive a response from the Minister on this proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-12.u4	The SP can certainly support the proposal to get an overview. I noticed in the study of this bill that we are based on old figures from 2015. I will also mention some percentages, but it may well be that it is different now, seven years later. I think it's good to get some kind of zero reading. But does Mr Strolenberg of the VVD also agree with me that if we point out that municipalities do not have enough resources or do not have enough resources, then we should discuss how to steer them?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-12.u5	That is, of course, a debate as a dance, but at least I know that when dualism was introduced, about €1.00 per inhabitant was available. Now that is reasonably indexed by means of accres. I have no idea what the municipalities are currently getting through the Municipal Fund. That is money that can be used generally; it is therefore not earmarked money, but it was given at the time with the thought to give proper substance to the function of the Court of Auditors, the role of the Court of Auditors. I believe that the Minister can appeal to municipalities if it is 26 cents, so that they do not use their money enough. Then, I think, we should have the debate then on whether the outcome is that we should give the municipalities more money.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-12.u6	That's not necessarily where I'd like to start. But with: how can we impose that? After all, the municipality can say that we have here a chamber of account with a sign and business cards, but they have too little resources and too little capacity to really fulfil that role. A role for which the VVD also says that the supervision of that money, of the expenditure, of the contracts, is really necessary in municipalities. How would the VVD want to see that done? Through a clue?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-12.u7	No, no clue. You should also be careful not to sit on the municipal council's budget law. They make their own choices. I think that with such an overview it might be easier for municipal councils to have that discussion. I have also spoken to a number of municipal councils that say: I do not really know what a real amount is. Well, I do, because I dive into the pieces and I know it was once symbolically about €1.00. There is now such a card with a website with everything on it to spend. I think it's about €1.30 per municipality now. I don't know if that's enough. Such an overview might help to have that discussion on the board or not fail themselves. I think, with all due respect... I mentioned the municipality of Hoogeveen as an example, with a municipal budget of 200 million and a budget of €15,000. That's easy to make $30,000 of, I'd almost say, but yes, I'm not going over it anymore. I'm just saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-12.u8	Finally, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-12.u9	Clear. The SP Group will say something about this in a moment. We need to get that zero measurement in order, but we also need to keep in mind that this bill, which we are also very much in favour of, is going to do what it has to do. If it turns out to be an empty shell for budgetary reasons or for lack of control, then that would be a waste of good intentions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-12.u10	I totally agree with that. I think that three things are more independent, more space to investigate things and ultimately the appropriate budget are also the success formula for achieving what is in the name of this bill, namely strengthening decentralised audit chambers.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-12.u11	Thank you, Mr. Strolenberg. I shall now give the floor to Mr Sneller, D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-12.u12	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Court of Auditors is an important ally of the People's Assembly in our, and their, controlling task and for accountability. Actually, you're gonna give everyone one of those accounts that does their job independently and helps the people's representatives. I therefore understand this bill very well against the background of the fact that this possibility has existed since 2006, but that many municipalities are "many" in the eye of the investor or the necessary municipalities, despite the investigations and despite the calls for proposals, and even despite this bill that has been in place for some time now, still do not have an active accounting office or audit office function. It has been said for a while that the figures are sometimes somewhat outdated, so I would ask the Minister to make a final statement on this. How many accounts are really not active and how many are not independent enough? In the course of the examination of the documents it has become clear to me that there is a whole spectrum: from audit committees made up of council members to fully independent audit chambers with all legal guarantees. The CDA amendment is actually in the middle of that. So I'd still like to hear how she investigated that. I actually sympathize with the VVD and think: let's settle it right now. At the same time, this may be a necessary condition, but it is not a sufficient condition. So I too am pleased that the powers of investigation are being extended, but a Court of Auditors does indeed need an ally in the parliament. It is, of course, the task of the Court of Auditors to seek that contact, but there must also be a representative of the people who are responsive to it. So what happens to promote that, too? I have seen that the Dutch Association for Council Members has the necessary materials to encourage the new council members, including the new Provincial States Members, to do so. But what else can the Minister do about it? The debate on resources has been going on for a while. I do not know whether I agree with the statement in the explanatory statement that a standard amount is contrary to the Council's budget law. I believe that we have already arranged this for local media for a long time, while it also goes through the Municipal Fund, and there are also municipalities that simply decide not to spend that standard amount on it. That is their budget right, and we finally put it in the government agreement that that is a reason to say that they are no longer about it. That watchdog is simply necessary, and we cannot make it dependent on the budget autonomy of municipal councils; otherwise we must take care of it. At the same time, this minister is also the guardian of Article 2 of the Financial Relationship Act. If we give this extra task and the desire for it to be in order everywhere, I believe that the written preparation will be broadly shared, then there will also be a sufficient budget. So I'd like to hear how the Minister intends to deal with this. As I said before, this office of account should not only be made public by means of the new council members' work programmes, but should be given permanent attention. Because only then can the Court of Auditors operate effectively and ensure that it cooperates with the board, the States or the general government.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. In the end, that is what it takes to ensure that its objective is achieved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-12.u13	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Leijten, SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-12.u14	Last few weeks it became clear once again how important it is for power to be controlled, by the representative of the people, by journalists and by institutions such as the Personal Data Authority and the General Court. How else are we gonna find out there's a ministry interfering with independent OMT opinions? How else do we find out that the Prime Minister does not consider it necessary to justify his trade and walk, but has been engaged in real-time archiving? Local accountability and local control of power is just as important. It is also increasingly difficult, because local journalism disappears. Municipalities are getting bigger and more and more involved in cooperation and are getting more and more tasks. The majority of council members in the Netherlands are concerned about the state of local democracy and feel that they have little control over their controlling task. A local accounting office is not the answer to that problem, but it does help. It helps local and regional representatives to get a grip on their controlling task. I always think of our General Court as a sort of 'can look under the hood'. We can ask for this, but they can do so for everyone, in the public interest, and they can also hold a mirror and force improvements. That is really important, because as a representative of the people, you have not only a controlling task, but also an acting task or a co-legislative task. Locally it may be different when it comes to co-regulation, but there too you want to be able to take initiatives and you name it. We are standing here with a bill that is quite old and the House's wish to settle that well, which is even older. At the end of 2014, a motion was passed from......................................................................................................................................................... We've been eight years and we're handling the bill. In the meantime, the local government has become more and more on its back feet due to substantial cuts and a larger task package. Can the Minister explain how it is possible that this has remained so long or, let me put it this way, has been waiting for him? Then Minister Stef Blok said in 2016 that he found the choice for a chamber of account of municipalities himself, but fortunately that tone has changed in the cabinet and we also belonged to the VVD. Although 8% of the municipalities do not have an accounting function, in many cases it is a function performed by council members. That's what we're breaking up with, because that's kind of the butcher who approves his own meat. It can also be very easy. On the one hand deciding and checking on the other side is no longer of this time. I also find the CDA's amendments inexplicable in this respect. As far as we are concerned, this bill is really necessary. This is not going to affect the municipalities that have it in order. This is going to help those municipalities that have not yet got it in order and perhaps give the city council members a little support in order to enforce it. We therefore welcome the remoteness of the Court of Auditors and the increase in its tasks, but we would like the Minister to tell us exactly how she sees this independence and how it is to complete it. The bill has changed. At first there was another possibility for council members to have an advisory function. It's out now. So that's where the thinking shifts. I think it is also good for the legal process that we should discuss this with each other and that the Minister should at least explain it so that we can always get back to it if we want to know exactly how it is meant. The SP does not understand why the leaders in our country, the VNG and the IPO, the leaders of the municipalities united and the leaders of the provinces united, oppose this. Oh, not the IPO, I understand from the Minister, the VNG. But we don't understand that. It is also a little parallel to the bill we have dealt with for this. Drivers should be proud and sure enough of their decisions, of how they make them, how they make them, in order to be able to check if that was the other bill to be corrected. I don't think it's a testament to a democratic awareness when you say, "No. Court of Auditors? Tough, tricky, tricky. We don't want that, we don't want it, we don't want it." That zero reading of the VVD is a good idea. I call it "zero-measurement." Just: what is the state of affairs now, where do we want to go? When did the bill pass or when should we do something? But also when it comes to enforcement. I'm very much in favour of temptation, I'm very much in favour of argument, but if a municipality or a province really doesn't fill it out, what are we going to do? That's what I'd like to know. It is also clear that at least I am going to advise my group colleagues to vote in favour.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-12.u15	Thank you very much. I shall give the floor to Mrs Van der Graaf, Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-12.u16	Madam President, thank you very much for the floor. When preparing this bill on strengthening the decentralised audit chambers, I had to remember my first term as a member of the Provincial States in Groningen in the period from 2007 to 2011. At that time, as a Member of the State, I was also a member of the Committee on Legal Protection of the Province, a committee in which the appeals and appeals were dealt with and which had to advise the administrative body, the College of Deputy States, on the decision to be taken. Together with one member of the State and two or three external members, we organised a hearing in which the parties were represented and advised the governing body, for example, about complaints from residents about a company that was close to a residential area and that emitted a lot of dust. Was that or was it not within the rules of the province and the province had to maintain them? There was also a cultural institution that felt that she should unjustly repay a subsidy because the province felt that she had not met the conditions. It was also concerned with the treatment of objections to the granting of a nature protection permit to the RWE power plant as topical at this time. As a member of the State, I saw from a different perspective how the policy of the province worked out in practice. It also gave me insight into the policy and action of the province, which sometimes allowed me to carry out my controlling task as a member of the state much better. As a law student, I also found it an extraordinary experience to participate in the hearings, to ask questions and discuss the parties. However, this double membership has sometimes been constrained, for example when there were complaints about the policy that I had voted for. I considered myself sufficiently capable of maintaining professional distance, but I was able to follow the decision that members of the Provincial States would automatically cease to be part of the Committee on Legal Protection, in order to strengthen the independent position of that committee. I see that the bill we are discussing today makes the same move for the audit chambers. It is an important legislative proposal, which concerns the strengthening of our democracy and the control of government at a decentralised level. It removes the possibility of auditing committees. It also deletes the possibility for council members to be members of the local Court of Auditors in their capacity as council members. That intention was announced ten years ago by Minister Spies after an evaluation of the Courts of Auditors, who felt that double membership was detrimental to the independence of the Court of Auditors. In addition, the legislative proposal extends the investigative powers for auditing, including with regard to private-law holdings, subsidies and private-law partnerships, and introduces the obligation for water boards to have a Court of Auditors. This was added with a letter of amendment. The Christian Union considers all this to be a good thing for the Courts set up in 2008 to strengthen the position of the city council and provincial states as controlling bodies. We support the line that they must now take a more independent position. I do, however, have a number of points that I would like to raise in this legislative process. First of all, that is the point of passing on recommendations made by the Court of Auditors. Taking over recommendations from the Court of Auditors is one thing, but giving them follow-up is two. A search for further analysis by the Courts of Auditors itself shows that it is often the case that councils, states and administrative bodies adopt recommendations, but little or nothing happens to them. An example is the recommendation of a Court of Auditors to request a second opinion and to develop scenarios for large investments by default. In recent investments, neither was followed up. The recommendation to a province to establish a policy framework for civic participation has not yet been reflected. Some recommendations need to be repeated over and over again, such as: explain exactly what you want to achieve and evaluate what social impact that has had. What could help here is a patch in the law which obliges the governing body, the college, to indicate how the follow-up has been given to the recommendations. On this point, I tabled an amendment together with Mrs Arib. In it, we instruct the College to have the Board, the States or the General Government receive an annual overview of the Board's recommendations. We believe that this is essential in order for the municipal, state or general government to carry out the framework and control function that they have a good understanding of the way in which the administrative body concerned has dealt with the implementation of recommendations from previous investigations carried out by the Court of Auditors. I would also like to stress that the Court of Auditors will continue to be able to carry out its own review of the state of implementation of the recommendations made by the Court of Auditors in previous investigations. Mr. Chairman. I would also like to draw attention to funding. The proposal obliges each municipality, each province and every water authority to set up that audit board, but no standards have been drawn up for its financing; municipalities may decide that for themselves. That can be a lot or very little. In the current scheme we see that there are dormitories and that is a problem. I would like to ask the Minister how she intends to prevent us from keeping the dormitories. In order to ensure that the Court of Auditors is also relevant to the local context in its investigations, it is necessary to ensure that there is not only a sufficient budget for members' fees, but that there is actually research money. However, the UNG and the Union of Water Councils also call for attention to be paid to the fact that there would be insufficient resources. But if we assume that having a Court of Auditors is as logical as setting up a Registry or having a Board of Appeals or Appeals, then a Court of Auditors should be as logical in the eyes of the Christian Union. I would therefore also like to ask the Minister whether she is prepared to examine the option of introducing a basic amount or a minimum budget as a fixed part of the general payment from the Municipal Fund or from the Province Fund, as has been given a place for the establishment of Registrys or Appeals Committees. Mr. Chairman. One problem that also comes around the corner here is that audit chambers depend on the administrative body that they have to control for their funding. They also have the power to look at the role of the parliament. A few critical reports, and the accountant's budget is cut. That's not a theoretical example, but it happens. So I ask for action from the Minister. Is she willing to investigate that? Mr. Chairman. My group believes that it is worth having an entirely independent audit chamber. I ask the Minister to be prepared, with the VNG and the waterboards, to come up with hand-outs for administrative bodies to make the transition to external audit chambers. I support what Members have said about the importance of a proper link between the Court of Auditors and the Parliament. There are already good ideas about this, such as a board of advice, a sounding board group or discussions with the board. I ask the Minister what it could mean in addition. Mr. Chairman. I would also like to draw attention to the way in which it can be ensured that there is no conflict of interest, that researchers are financially independent of the client and that this influences the research. How is it prevented that the same research is carried out by several audit chambers involving the same researcher, and that cumulation of membership of different audit chambers becomes a earning model? I ask the Minister how she sees it, whether she sees it as a risk and how she would guarantee it. What does the Minister think of the idea that there should be a code or training in cooperation with the NVRR for members of auditors, at least stating that a member of the Court of Auditors should not carry out the investigation itself? Mr. Chairman. For the water boards, it's new that it becomes an obligation to have a chamber of accounts. A number of waterboards already have that. The law allows for an adapted timetable, but what time frame does the Minister see for himself and does it also draw up this together with the Union of Water Councils? And then the last point I would like to raise. That is a point of a more technical nature, which is about the link with the Open Government Act. Article 185 (1) of the Municipal Act and Article 186 (1) of the Province Act provide that accounting records shall not contain any information or findings which are confidential by their nature. Therefore, Article 185 (1) of the Municipal Act is also included in the exceptions for public access, as can be found in the Annex to Article 8.8 of the Open Government Act. However, that is not the case for Article 186 (1) of the Province Act. Now, unlike municipal audit firms, provincial auditors are no longer able to rely on the Provincial Law to protect confidential data. Does the Minister recognize this? And is she willing to restore that omission? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-12.u17	Are you at the end of your speech? Yes. A question from Mr Sneller.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-12.u18	I am very curious to hear the answer to this last question, but there were two points in Mrs Van der Graaf's speech which I wanted to come back to. The first point is the standard amount. I have also pointed out that the way things are going is problematic, but Mrs Van der Graaf is asking the Minister to do an investigation. I'm trying to get some sense of what that research is, and what other solutions the Christian Union might see except just outside the municipalities to finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-12.u19	Honestly, I don't see a lot of other options. I think it's okay to fund it outside the municipalities, but I'm being very honest here. I'm just trying to figure out where the room is. So that was the thought behind the investigation. I am very curious to see what Mr Sneller intends to do. The point I wanted to make here in particular is that I think it is important that we look at the financing of these audit chambers. If many municipalities indicate that their finances are under pressure, then we know that that is going to happen, and if we all think it is important that the Court of Auditors should be set up and that we should be obliged to do so in the law, then I too should say: whoever says a must say b. The Minister must therefore see what possibilities exist through the funds to do the funding outside the municipal councils, also to disconnect that connection between research, client and funding.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-12.u20	Then I'd find out too much. Mrs. Van der Graaf shouldn't look too much for me either. We'd like to hear the answer. The other point was that accumulation of calculation chamber functions. I understand that a Court of Auditors should not order an investigative office in which someone from the Court of Auditors is then in, but I thought I heard Mrs Van der Graaf say: people should not become members of different audit chambers either. Is that what she said?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-12.u21	I did not say that we should not, but I do see that some investigations are being carried out because people are members of different audit chambers, including those different audit chambers. This could carry the risk of a earning model and an interest in carrying out that research. I would like to highlight that risk. I would also very much like to know how the Minister sees it, so whether she recognizes that there is a risk in it and, if so, what guarantees that risk could be prevented. I'm not saying you can't be a member of multiple audit firms. I can see that prevents what I'm just sketching. So that question is worth throwing here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-12.u22	I was just studying the amendment and wondering the following. You mentioned all the recommendations in your speech, but you also referred to certain points of view and recommendations. What kind of recommendations should apply to this transmission? Those reports are also discussed in the board. The Council itself, I believe, also sets out which recommendation it intends to adopt or not to adopt. It is also an advice to the board, so not so much to the college. So how do we deal with recommendations that may not apply to, for example, the College, the Executive Board or Provincial States? I was also wondering if that is not unnecessary, because a council can simply ask and arrange this with its college.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-12.u23	The council can always ask, sure. In the meantime, I think that the practice shows that there should be a hook in the law to instruct administrative bodies to give substance to this. It just turns out in practice: at the moment when a Court of Auditors has written a report and makes recommendations, administrative bodies indicate what they are going to take over and do politically, but then lack a concrete approach to how to work it out, or something lingers in the official organisation. I'm saying it's not necessarily unwilling, but it just happens. For municipal councils, the overview of what happened to them may be missing. They thought: we were allowed to assume that the college would carry it out as it had indicated? I don't want it to depend on that one councilman asking questions about it to the college. I believe that the College should be more proactively encouraged to do so. I see an analogy in that with the Security Research Council. I've had some doubts as to whether you should impose that obligation on the Court of Auditors. Courts are already carrying out a thorough review. This doesn't get in the way either. They can always do that. But also the Safety Research Council gives a certain period of time after it has produced a report with recommendations again on how things really stand. I believe that municipal councils can be better supported in this so that they can better exercise their control role.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-12.u24	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mrs Arib, PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-12.u25	I'll start with the PvdA's past on this file. Mrs Leijten referred to Mr Van Raak, who spoke on this dossier. At the PvdA that was in 2001, when the bill with which the auditing chambers were created was dealt with, my colleague Dick de Cloe. He has tabled an amendment to provide for an opportunity for a Board of Auditors. I am also looking at Mrs Inge van Dijk on behalf of the CDA: there is an amendment tabled by Mr Van der Molen which proposes something similar. I am pleased that we are discussing this bill today, which strengthens our democracy and proposes setting up a Court of Auditors without council members. That's what we're gonna talk about today. Not only Dick de Cloe has said a lot about this, but also my former colleague Manon Fokke. She was a strong supporter of strong auditing chambers. In the meantime, she has become director of the Dutch Association of Audit Boards and Audit Boards and that does not surprise me. I share the opinion she expressed at the time on the importance of auditing chambers. In fact, that importance has only increased. I am also saying that we are actually very pleased with this bill. The tasks of municipalities and their expenditure have been considerably increased since the local audit offices became mandatory. Think, for example, of decentralisations from the state to the municipalities, but also of the Environment Act, which is incredibly complex and is going to mean a lot to municipalities. In addition, the audit chambers also have powers. Their powers are being extended. They can investigate contracts with legal persons governed by private law, for example in social support or the social domain. In my opinion, it is incredibly important that research into these matters is carried out, not only on all kinds of projects, but also on grants and loans, for example. The municipalities now have much more to do with this than before. So you can safely say that the control of municipal expenditure has become even more important than it already was. It is therefore very undesirable that there should be municipalities with unfunctioning or poorly functioning audit chambers. Fortunately, that's a small minority. It has become even more important that audit chambers become more professional and independent. For this reason, I share the view of the government, of this Minister, that the accounting function should be abolished. Even if, in the opinion of the Courts of Auditors and the council members themselves, the function of the Court of Auditors functions well, I am committed, on behalf of my group, to ensuring independence. So I do not think it is a good idea and no longer appropriate to the modern views on control and supervision that council members are part of the Court of Auditors, even if a minority of the members of the Court of Auditors are council members. Mr Leijten has already said it: the butcher who approves his own meat. We must prevent the politics that play in the municipal administration from being able to seep through the local accounting office and thereby threaten the necessary independence, that critical accounting reports are watered down. I am thinking in particular of the example of our General Court. Imagine if we, as Members of Parliament, were to sit in the General Court. Then the country was really too small. This bill is in line with that example and so far it has worked very well. The Court of Auditors functions perfectly and we always do something with the recommendations. We are obliged to do so. I expect the same from the city councilmen. Municipal council members can of course bring their expertise and knowledge of the local situation to the Court of Auditors. They may give opinions. The accountant's talking to everyone. The fear that council members will no longer be heard is therefore basically unfounded. In addition, the Board may request the Audit Board to carry out an investigation. The relationship between the Court of Auditors and Council can remain strong, without the independence of the Court of Auditors having to be at stake. If municipalities cannot properly set up a Court of Auditors themselves, as may be the case with smaller municipalities, it is good that they have the opportunity to share a Court of Auditors together, especially if the municipalities have assigned their tasks to common regulations. If that is the case, the monitoring of this is, of course, very important, of even greater importance. Courts are already competent to carry out investigations into common arrangements. The government cannot force municipalities to set up joint audit chambers. However, the government expects that, following the bill we are talking about today, municipalities will work together more often in joint audit offices. That seems to me to be a good development, but it is better for one common auditor to investigate a common arrangement rather than many separate auditors to do so. I am therefore very curious to see how this Minister will encourage this. Finally. Last year, a project group was set up to support municipalities in setting up audit chambers, in order to ensure professionalisation and the like. I would like to know what the situation is. What's this project group running into? What problems do they see and what do they see as solutions? My last point is that there should be sufficient resources. Mr Sneller, Mrs Van der Graaf and Mr Leijten have said something about this. I also agree with the comments made by my colleague, Mrs Van der Graaf. In fact, it also points out that it is very important that auditors operate independently. We do not want municipal councils to cut down on that budget as accounting chambers are critical. I'd like to get a reaction to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-12.u26	Thank you. Then we'll go to Mrs. Inge van Dijk, CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-12.u27	Mr. Chairman. We find it a bad thing if municipalities do not give substance to serious accounting investigations or if they do not see the added value of research through an accounting function. The CDA considers this function important because it helps the city council in its control over the effectiveness, efficiency and legality of the municipal administration. The same applies, of course, to the BES islands. My first question to the Minister is how they are dealt with on this subject. The Government states that the non-formative legislation governing the establishment of the accounting function is a factor in the inadequate functioning of the accounting system and can therefore be better replaced by an independent accounting chamber, which is subject to clear requirements and whose investigative powers are extended, so that there will be an audit chamber in each municipality. We are partly in agreement with this position, but also partly disagree with it. I'm gonna start with what we agree with. The legislative proposal regulates the strengthening of the position by extending the investigative powers. We think that is a good step. It fits the current developments. In addition, it helps the municipal councils to better tackle their role as budget responsible. Also the clarification of how to deal with care, disclosure and confidentiality of data and communications, promoting hearing and hearing prior to the adoption, and disclosure of the reports are good steps. We are in favour of this. Mr. Chairman. However, we disagree with the argument that the only way to ensure that the mandatory accounting function functions properly is to replace it with a compulsory accounting function. We also disagree with the argument that it only works well if council members are put away. Of course, I'll explain why. First of all, with the government, we note that there are also municipalities where the accounting function has been designed in an exemplary way and functions very well. The government indicates that the transformation of these well-functioning examples into a Court of Auditors is only a small step. But why would you force good examples to change? Why do you make the good ones suffer from the bad ones? Where does the Minister get it that it's just a small step? Perhaps it is a small step on paper, but we prefer to look at the practice from which we get very different signals. Then two. The CDA still has a bit of a nasty feeling about the text in the explanatory memorandum which advocates cooperation between municipalities in relation to the Court of Auditors. We are not opposed to cooperation, but we believe that the compelling nature of this proposal is very much directed from above. As far as we are concerned, there is an undertone in the documents that this is the only way to carry out this function properly. Of course, due to the many partnerships, municipal councils have come to stand at a distance and control has become more complicated. A joint control of a certain common regime can then be a very good idea. For example, municipalities do not always automatically cooperate with the same municipalities in common schemes. In other words, here too there is the risk of a paper reality versus the practice that does not fit sufficiently. With regard to the third point, we follow the Association of Dutch Municipalities, the Dutch Association for Council Members, the Association of Registrars and the Union of Water Councils. Because all municipalities and water boards have to set up an independent accounting chamber with a complete external composition, the possibility of self-fulfilling falls away. We believe that the Court of Auditors will function better if the Board has the opportunity to organise the Court of Auditors in such a way that it fits optimally into its own, specific, local context. The report of the Local Courts Working Group shows that the relationship between the city council and the Court of Auditors determines the proper functioning of the Court of Auditors. The bill excludes the active participation of council members and waterboard directors as members of the Court of Auditors. This means that the Board and the general administration will be even more remote from the Court of Auditors. It's getting less and less of them. Each accounting report becomes one of the many reports that they have to deal with. Is it not the product that has been delivered, which shows that quality and independence are in order?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-12.u28	I'm just looking for a moment to interrupt you. Please finish your sentence.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-12.u29	Why is there no active control of this from The Hague, if we have our concerns about it? Isn't it much more effective than a structural discussion?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-12.u30	Thank you. An interruption by Mrs Leijten of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-12.u31	I would like to ask Mrs Van Dijk of the CDA what functions are incompatible for a Member of Parliament and why.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-12.u32	We're not talking about MPs here. We're talking about city councilmen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-12.u33	I would like an answer to the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-12.u34	I really think that a MP has a different role to a city councilman. As a Member of Parliament, I do find it strange to be in the General Court of Auditors. But for a city council member it is really a different story, because it has a different role and another responsibility. That is why we think that this combination is appropriate, but not the combination of Member of Parliament/Court of Auditors.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-12.u35	I'm getting an answer to a question I didn't ask at all. I was gonna ask him, so I'm gonna get back to it. I think this is a very strange amendment. I also think it is a destructive amendment for the assessment. It runs counter to what the law aims to do, namely an independent position of the Court of Auditors. This function is governed by the law, because it supports us as representatives of the people in our control function of that power. I don't understand why the CDA considers it to be a popular representative, elected by the people on that mission, otherwise considers it to be a MP or a councilman. I would like to leave it the same, because with the electorate's mandate you spend a lot of money. There's a lot going wrong at the local level. Does it go wrong everywhere? No! But there's a lot going wrong. Follow the money for youth care: where does it all end up? It would be very nice if audit chambers were to investigate this and put council members in a position to make better decisions. But if she sees it that you're getting too far away and that it's just another report you're reading, does the CDA think so when it comes to the General Court? Is she not taking these reports seriously and is that also the umpteenth report that comes with it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-12.u36	I actually hear two questions. In my view, I have heard previous speakers express concerns about the fact that the reports are not done very much at local level. That's just the practice right now. The question is, why is that? If we really want us to do something with what's in the accounts, I think there's something there. There's something like, "Is it even ours?" That's what I'm worried about. Mrs Leijten asks whether we take the reports of the Court of Auditors seriously. From the financial point of view, we do a great deal with these reports. I even make motions on it when I think there are points in it, which I consider to be very valuable. If you ask me personally, I attach great importance to these reports.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-12.u37	I can't follow the CDA's point of view. When we got the amended amendments, I actually thought the CDA might have watered it down. In fact, the CDA says: maintain the auditing function, maintain those council members. And about that distance she says: we all don't, that's all local choice. I think we should start normalizing. We must say that the Court of Auditors, which is independent, has powers. I very much support that, but the question to the CDA is whether it will vote for or against the law if the amendments are not adopted.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-12.u38	Then there's a very good chance we're going to vote against this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-12.u39	Thank you. You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-12.u40	Mr. Chairman. Like the UNG, we believe more in cultural change than in structural change. You can't impose a culture change. Research by Berenschot shows that, regardless of the quality of the products, it is much more gentle factors such as involvement, political feeling, style of operation and culture that determine the effectiveness of the Audit Board. According to the researchers, organizational formation, budget and political relations were to a much lesser extent important factors for the effectiveness of the functioning of the audit chambers. Finally, we believe that the powers of the Audit Boards need to be clarified. The Court of Auditors is already competent to investigate the administration of the municipality. We note that it is not always clear in municipalities that "government" should mean policy preparation, formation, determination, implementation and effects. We therefore propose the clarification by amendment that jurisdiction should be understood broadly, and that the administrative organisation which supports the municipal administration and the political organisation should also be subject to audit. They fall within this term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-12.u41	Are you at the end of your speech? Mr. Sneller, D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-12.u42	Firstly, I think that is a very good amendment. My question is about culture versus structure. Mrs Van Dijk makes the problem analysis that there is insufficient ownership, transit and follow-up from the municipal councils. Its solution in the other amendment is actually a structural solution, namely that council members should be able to remain on the accounting committees. However, her statement is that there is a cultural problem. I'm gonna try to rhyme with those two. Maybe she can help me.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-12.u43	The position is mainly: let the local context determine what is good for them. What do they think is the most effective form to achieve a proper interpretation of the accounting function, to arrive at the best reports and to arrive at the highest probability that recommendations will be properly followed? You can say that it is only bad that council members participate, but I hear many council members who participate say: this has given me so much insight into things that I didn't know at all or which I didn't realize at all, that it has helped me to realize within my group; because of the deepening that I have now gotten and which I might not have had a chance at all as a council member, I now look at the matter and how we should control each other and keep each other sharp. I think that's valuable, too. As far as we are concerned, it really depends on the local context how the function is arranged so that it is effective.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-12.u44	There are also other instruments that allow you to deepen your knowledge as a council member. This isn't gonna change anything. You can do council investigations or set up other committees to do research. That still seems very legitimate to me, and it can be done. Mrs Van Dijk supports the school which says that this is not a structural problem, but a cultural problem. Its solution in the amendment is a structural adjustment. I'm still trying to figure out how to bring these two together, and if she has any suggestions for doing something about that particular cultural problem. Her answer is, let's have a local look at what works best. The point I would make is: no, there are too many risks that something will be decided that undermines good governance if you put that balance all the way at the local level.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-12.u45	I'm sorry, but I didn't understand your question properly enough at first. We understand perfectly well that you don't have to have an accountant with all the councilmen. We understand very well that it is healthy to have a mix in it. We also understand very well that it is wise to have an independent President. That's why we said, "Give the local departments room." We shouldn't make it completely noncommittal. That's why we put a little structure into that. Freedom, therefore, but with a.............................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-12.u46	Thank you, Mrs Van Dijk. I shall now give the floor to Mr Bosma, PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-12.u47	Thank you, Mr President. It's still mysterious that we're dealing with another bill that's been old for some time now. Maybe it's a little molded in the Ministry. That was the case with the bill on the financing of political parties. I have attacked Mrs Ollongren, the minister's predecessor, for four years: you do not produce any laws at all and nothing comes out of your hands. Now we have a new minister. They'll all find some old laws in the Ministry. I don't know exactly how that goes. Maybe the minister said to her that there are still bodies in the closet? Anything else I should know? And then an official said, "Yeah, we still have a room with all the legislative proposals that have never been dealt with." And that the new minister went into that room with a plumeau and found all kinds of nice things there.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-12.u48	There is an interruption by Mr Sneller, D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-12.u49	Then Mr Bosma will have to read along: 24 March 2020.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-12.u50	Then you should also read in the explanatory statement. Our former colleague, Mrs Fokke, who I understand has found a good new job, has already launched this in 2015. So it's been going back years. We won't get the answer, or maybe we'll hear the real anecdote one day in this minister's memoirs. But I find it mysterious and I wonder what else will come out of those rooms over the next few years. Full of anticipation, my heart beats. Actually, I think it's a fine bill. It's really good. It is very logical to make these audit chambers more independent and independent, even if it was only in view of the great expansion of the tasks of municipalities that we have of course seen in recent years. Think about all these decentralisations. Two weeks ago, we saw the usefulness of audit chambers in this plenary Chamber when our national audit board, the General Court of Auditors, presented its report. At that time, 5% of the government's expenditure, i.e. 5%, was illegal. That amounts to EUR 15 billion. That's an incredible ditch money, and that's just tax money. In practice, it is simply not justifiable. That's a big deal. Then you could say: there are national institutions like the Lower House et cetera on top. But how does it work in all these municipalities? So I think it's very good. I actually want to make three points. One. What are the practical consequences of this? We've got the "sleeping accounts." That's a beautiful phenomenon. How many of those accounts are active and how many inactive? How many are really independent? We've seen some old records. Have the municipalities been adequately equipped in 2022? Should they be hiring people? Is there a sufficient budget? Do they have enough resources? The General Court also made that point. So what does it mean in practice for all these municipalities to carry out what this minister has invented in all her wisdom? The second point concerns the Common Regulations and Cooperations Act between Municipalities. The WGR just stays a bit in my throat, because it is an unclear web and forest of municipalities that work together in all kinds of contexts, with all kinds of sizes and compositions. The disadvantage of this is that democratic control is actually completely absent. From the explanatory statement, like Mrs Van Dijk, who also made that point, I note that the Minister likes the fact that municipalities are going to work together in the area of auditing. I find that clumsy. This also makes democratic control more difficult. I'd like to hear the Minister's opinion on that. The third and final point concerns input. That's what we're talking about today, and that's what the bill is really about: what should it look like? They have to do this and they have to. They have to be sisters and they have to be like this. Jantje doesn't like this and Pietje does. That's all very well, but it's not about what's supposed to roll out. I read on page 21 of the explanatory memorandum, under heading 5.1, that the reports must be objective. Oh, my God! They shouldn't contain any mistakes. My group fully agrees with that. I look forward to the CDA amendment. Confidentiality is also important. I get all that. But shouldn't those accounting chambers, which are going to have a fair amount of money, just be checked for quality? It should not be said that you must produce something once a year, and that must meet certain criteria. Is there not a clean task there for the provinces, which already supervise the municipalities, or for the General Court, which, of course, specialises in it like no other? That's just a quality check: you get so much money and you meet all the requirements in terms of input, but you have to produce reports of a certain quality, of a certain level, and every year the Court of Auditors comes, with our friend Mr. Arno Visser, and then you get a stamp. Or you won't get a stamp. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-12.u51	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the first term on the side of the Chamber. The Minister has indicated that she needs about ten minutes to prepare herself. I've been hearing for 15 minutes. It was ten minutes, and now it's fifteen minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-12.u52	I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-12.u53	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you very much to the Members for the questions. I made a couple of cubes. First of all, a general block on the law. The second block is about funding and the third is about the involvement of council members and the investigative powers. The fourth block is about the separate question about the water boards and finally there is a block other than the water boards. Then, of course, I will deal with the amendments. Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank Members for their questions and for their support for the legislative proposal. It is indeed a bill with a long history. I liked the fact that Mrs Arib pointed out that there was once an initiative by Mr De Cloe, who tabled the amendment at the time. After that, in 2014, it was taken by Mrs. Fokke. Then we come to 2014, a letter to the Chamber about how we're going to do it, questions from the Chamber to which answers follow, clarity, then a bill, then the Council of State. And before you know it, you will indeed be many years away, I will also say to Mr Bosma. But I am happy, I say to this Chamber, with a Chamber which has been extremely active since my arrival, because I believe that this is about the ninth bill, or perhaps the tenth one, in four months' time from this committee. In any case, it is not up to this committee to make progress. Mr Bosma is now shouting something out of the microphone; I hope he will hold on to the pace. Mr. Chairman. The decentralised audit chambers are extremely important for the province but also for the municipalities, because these audit chambers are expert, independent organisations that support the controlling role of the parliament. That's a lot of added value. Because being a council member is a part-time function, which is the biggest difference with the MPs here, whereas, for example, a municipality like Hoogeveen has a budget of 200 million, as Mr Strolenberg pointed out. Then it is very good for professional professionals to look into the way in which a local authority or a county administration carries out its work and see if this is done in a prudent, good way. Mr. Chairman. During the introduction of dualisation and also following an amendment by Mr De Cloe, a mandatory audit chamber was introduced. I've reported this before. It is important to see that a lot of municipalities are really working on this. But as the members pointed out, there are also municipalities that do not or hardly work on it. There are even dormitories. This represented 9% of the municipalities in 2020. Last time, Nieuwsuur investigated this and found that there are still 27 municipalities without an active office of account or office of account. This is therefore largely in line with what we pointed out in a report in 2020. The purpose of this bill is therefore to ensure that municipalities and their councils, provinces and water boards are given real support in order to have a good, strong accounting office that can give effect to their work, even though several members have said so, including Mr Bosma, because many additional tasks have gone to the municipalities in recent years. In this context, Mrs Arib mentioned the Social Support and Youth Services Act. It is therefore really important that proper and thorough research is carried out and that there is an independent position for this. Mrs Leijten asked what this means for distance and connection. I'll be sure to deal with that later. I'll get back to you. Mr. Chairman. In this context, members spoke about the different safeguards. They also asked about the figures. According to the latest figures, there are 27 municipalities without an active office of account or office of account. There are also six municipalities where only members of the Board perform the function of the Audit Board. There are also 83 municipalities where the auditing function is exercised by both council members and external members. The national image of this can also be seen on the website www.zichtopachtenkamers.nl. I'll make sure I update that review to the latest state of affairs in the near future. Mr. Chairman. Then the question is: if you set up an independent accounting chamber in the municipalities, this law in the Second and the First Chamber gets a majority and this is introduced, what possibilities does the Minister have to ensure that the law is implemented? As the members of this Chamber of course know: if there are provisions in the Municipal Law, placement by provinces is not possible because of job neglect, because this is not possible under the Municipal Law. However, municipal decrees can be destroyed by the Crown, if they are contrary to the law. Another method that is more in the middle is that as a minister I can always ask for a ministry from a municipality when I see that certain things are not working properly. Then I can have the conversation on the basis of the notice when certain tasks are not completed. However, it would be a good thing if a compulsory audit chamber were to be set up which is independent, then municipalities would deliberately not be able to implement it. I can hardly imagine that happening. But if it is, then there are some ways to make it happen. Mr. Chairman. It is important to make real work of dormitories becoming active. That doesn't just mean passing a law. That also means, of course, that you have to work with each other. That is why, together with the Association of Dutch Municipalities, we have set up a project group of local audit chambers, which, together with the professional and interest association of the central government, provides support to the audit chambers to work more actively and to share good examples of other audit chambers. In any case, that must be another kind of incentive that looks more closely at the method. I say to Mrs Van der Graaf that it is of course also important when the legislative proposal is introduced that we ensure that there is a hand-out, that we make it with the Dutch Association of Courts of Auditors to ensure that these good examples are there. In this context, Mrs Van der Graaf also asked about education and the like and about the quality of people doing the research. What I know, at least, is that in practice, audit firms often inform each other when research concerns common topics, so that they try not to overlap. I do not have the impression that there are major problems at the moment, that a lot of people are doing research for different audit chambers and that that is going to be a kind of earning model. At least I did not get that signal from the Dutch Association of Courts of Auditors. Of course, I can always ask them again if they see that. I can see that the NVRR offers a lot of training and activities and that this is of added value. So I haven't seen the problem yet. I think it is a good thing that I have a discussion there with the Dutch Association of Courts of Auditors and see if there are any issues left.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-12.u54	I think that's very good. Maybe it's also good to light up the light more widely, because I've got the impression that it's valuable to have a look at this, also from science. I asked very specifically what the Minister thinks of the idea of a code for this purpose, at least to state that a member of the Court of Auditors is not carrying out the investigation himself. I was wondering if the Minister would think that was a good idea. Is it underlining that this is indeed undesirable and is it prepared to say so or to record it somewhere?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-12.u55	What I see from practice is that the members of independent auditors, such as the Randstade Court of Auditors, often have a staff in which people do the research and that, for example, the President of the Randstade Court of Auditors gives the explanation of the proposal, but also actively looks along and ensures... My question to Mrs Van der Graaf is above all what risk she sees. Where's the biggest obstacle and care?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-12.u56	My main concern is that there could be conflict of interest. When the researchers are financially dependent on the client, the phenomenon that determines who pays can occur. Then it seems as independent as possible, but in practice it is not. There's my fear. That comes to mind. These are concerns that have been brought to my attention. I wanted to give them a place here. I am not waiting for a motion or anything like that to be tabled, but I would like to ask the Minister to take a look at this. Does she want to go into that and let it shine its light on it and inform the Chamber of whether it sees any risks and what safeguards it sees as a way of combating this? If this is a risk that is brought to my attention, a concern, then my question to the Minister is whether she wants to look at how she can ensure that a member of the Court of Auditors does not carry out that investigation himself, because then you will get that mixture, which is undesirable.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-12.u57	It is very nice that Mrs Van der Graaf explains this further. This bill also provides, of course, for the prohibition rules to be applied to the members of the Court of Auditors. This already excludes a lot of things, things that a member of the Court of Auditors can no longer do, for example, in relation to a municipality. This means that a member of the Court of Auditors can no longer work at the municipality, can sue for a municipality and the like. This already excludes a number of issues where you could see possible forms of conflict of interest. If Mrs Van der Graaf asks me whether or not that is enough in practice, I would like to make a commitment here to really check with the introduction of the law whether this is sufficient and whether it meets any signals. I don't have those signals from the field, but I'm taking Mrs. Van der Graaf's signals seriously. In any case, I believe that the legislative proposal is taking an important step there. So let me in particular continue the conversation with the association to see if there are any concerns there and if we can overcome them.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-12.u58	And being informed to the Chamber about that was another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-12.u59	That seems to me to be a good thing to do anyway, because Mrs Van der Graaf sees this as an appropriate point. I'm just looking at a natural moment in that context. I am going to make a further commitment in the context of funding. I think it can be put together there. In any case, one should not give orders to oneself. I'd like to make that clear. Mr. Chairman. Two questions have been asked about common rules and common auditing chambers. Mrs Arib says that she is very curious to see how it is going to be encouraged that common audit offices are also carrying out investigations into common rules. I think so, too. They can do that together, and I think they should coordinate it well, so that not everyone shows up at the same time. I also think it is important in that context to say that it is the form of the joint audit chambers.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... So that doesn't mean that accountants have to be together. It concerns the examination of common arrangements by a Court of Auditors. You can see that with this bill, because a number of cases can now be investigated, you can take steps. Then the financial oversight when it comes to the quality and output of the Court of Auditors. That is a question from Mr Bosma. At the end of the day, it is up to a council to assess whether it believes that a Court of Auditors is carrying out sufficient in-depth research and also producing good reports. According to Mr Bosma, a province can indeed check whether a local accounting office is active and appeal to the municipality. So there are actually two possible ways to implement that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-12.u60	Yeah, but I don't think the control of whether that account is active is very important. Maybe they're ping-ponging all day long. I charge slightly. But it's just the quality level that matters to me. Then the minister also mentions the city council, but those municipal councils consist of people who have normal jobs and do so. There's a huge turnover among city council members. Not everyone in it is financially qualified. In fact, that's often a few. So those municipal councils are also not sufficiently equipped, I'm afraid, to really look at the quality level of products from that office. Should we not seek a fundamental way of ensuring that the reports produced by the Court of Auditors actually meet a high level of quality?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-12.u61	What one sees in practice is that a city council is also supported by a registry and a clerk, who is often involved in a council for a longer period of time. Often it also has an active role to play in the mathematics room. With regard to the concern that Mr Bosma has, council members are temporary and it is a part-time function, it is true that there is often a clerk at a council, who also plays a more active role in this area. So in that sense, there's someone who's just full-time at work. Mr. Chairman. Several questions concerned the financing and concerns of Mrs Van der Graaf, Mr Sneller, but also Mrs Leijten, Mrs Van Dijk and, in fact, everyone in the Chamber. Is this funding, as it once was in the Local Government Dualisation Act, sufficient in today's times? Do we have to take another look at that? At the time they were talking about €1 per member of the population. A number of municipalities are much lower. I would, however, like to say to the Chamber that I am going to do a broad measurement to get a look at the budgets for the Court of Auditors, so that I am really going to get an idea of what that is about now and how much you are on average with municipalities. If we have a budget, then, of course, what about the use of the budget? Is that enough? Do you or do you not come to the question of whether or not to normalize? I always find standardisation a little complicated, because it is also about the autonomy of the municipalities themselves. I'm very attached to that. But let me just do it in that order. I say to the Chamber that I will first conduct a broader investigation into the financing of the accounting chambers and the way in which they have been implemented, that I will also look at certain directions for resolution when certain problems arise and that I will inform the House of Representatives, along with the point of information that Mrs Van der Graaf has just put forward. Mr. Chairman. In this context, the VVD asked for an overview of the various amounts. We have the website and the dashboard for that, but as I said, I'm going to dive deeper into that as well. I shall come back to that more thoroughly. In this context, I come to the point made by Mr Sneller of those responsive representatives, as I have summarised, and Mrs Leijten's point about an appropriate distance from the Court of Auditors. I will start with that, because it already has a natural follow-up to Mrs Van Dijk's concern, who wondered whether the distance from the council would be too large. Mr Sneller also asked me how I look at this relationship. For me, proper distance means that there is a good balance between distance and engagement. The Court of Auditors is there for the council, but it's not from the council. By that I mean that a Court of Auditors does its research independently, but that does not mean, as several Members have pointed out, that as a Court of Auditors, you are not very well able to discuss questions like: what is your interest, what are you worried about, what can we do our research on this year? Those questions are essential because, if you're going to conduct an investigation that a majority of the board needs, you're also sure something is going to be done with your research. After all, the Council attaches great importance to working on this. In practice, I find that audit chambers also simply question council members and state members when investigations are being carried out and that they are going into the official organisation very actively. So you can see there's a connection. A board can also organise a sounding board group, which is a kind of sounding board for the counting chamber during the conduct of the investigations. Despite the fact that a Court of Auditors is independent, there are therefore quite a lot of possibilities to have regular interim consultations. I think you should leave room for that interaction, too. To sum it up: a Court of Auditors can very well have discussions with council members about the research programming and what the Board needs before a year, and the Board can also set up a sounding board group or a council committee that regularly has a conversation with the Board of Auditors. A council can also specifically ask the Court of Auditors to investigate something. The question is whether I have answered Mrs Leijten's question sufficiently.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-12.u62	That's what we're gonna hear now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-12.u63	The position of the Chamber is that we can ask the Court of Auditors for something, but we cannot give an order.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-12.u64	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-12.u65	How does the Minister see that in the municipal councils and the local audit offices?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-12.u66	In principle, a Court of Auditors always makes its own assessment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-12.u67	Basically?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-12.u68	I'll rephrase it. In the end, a Court of Auditors makes its own assessment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-12.u69	Yeah, that means independence. Of course you'll pick up what's needed. What are we picking up? The council can say about large projects: we have little control over them; can you investigate them? Consultation is fine, but no assignments. I think it is important that we deal with this, because we come from a situation where we think that distance is sensible, but perhaps there is a culture in which it is not common practice. As far as the SP Group is concerned, these professionalisations and independence are real... You don't take orders anymore. The Council should think about this purely. So it's not "we're giving an order." No, it's always a question. The Court of Auditors can always say, "I can't do that." At least that's what I learned as a Member of Parliament. I am also always very careful in my wordings in motions to never see a separate college as an extension of the Chamber work. I think it's important that we put that right in this legal process.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-12.u70	The municipal councils, the Provincial States and the general boards of the water boards can make requests, but the Court of Auditors decides. Mr. Chairman. I come to Mr Sneller's point, which I have already mentioned in my reply to Mrs Leijten. There are good opportunities to promote the relationship between the Court of Auditors and the Board. That is also a great concern of Mrs Van Dijk, whom she has made very clear. For her it is a great concern that the distance becomes too large, that the Court of Auditors eventually does business as an island and the council no longer recognizes itself in it. In fact, the basis of the Court's work is lost. I understand that concern very well, but there are very good ways of maintaining that connection between the Board and the Court of Auditors, for example through consultation on programming, the establishment of a sounding board, contacts with the Registry of the City Council or the involvement of council members, who may ask questions. When the Court of Auditors issues a report, they often give a technical briefing about it, they support and answer questions. It's just an interaction. I have been a deputy in Utrecht and dealt with the Randstadelijke Court of Auditors. It is my experience that this really is an active relationship and that that is a direction to the debates that the Provincial States have with the delegates, because there are a number of social issues that are considered important in the province or municipality.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-12.u71	The Minister's answer triggers me to ask a question and perhaps also to ask for a commitment. We're gonna make some changes later. This naturally has an impact on the Provincial States, the Councils and the Water Boards. I know there's an inspirational framework or something like a document, some kind of hand-out. My question to the Minister is: does she want to provide it actively or perhaps re-publish it? Perhaps it will be given some extra impetus and we can remind our local authorities once again of the possibilities for this bottleneck, the question of how to organise involvement in the decentralised audit rooms.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-12.u72	Sure. That is, of course, one of the things that the project group is now picking up. I am not entirely a fan of the word 'inspiration framework', but Mr Strolenberg cannot help it, because I use it myself in my letter. In any case, it offers very good handles to get to work. So let's get that back together with the project group, which is very active, but also if this law is passed in the Upper House. In any case, I have promised to develop a hand-out. That's where this goes very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-12.u73	Then perhaps just for the follow-up: I think it was Mrs Arib who asked what was going on. I also happened to have a word with Raymond Vlecken this afternoon, the chairman of that project group of local accounting offices of the Interior. I also asked how the reporting takes place. At least I've been told that after the summer he's coming up with an update or something like that. My question to the Minister is whether she would like to share it with the Chamber, so that perhaps we can discuss it once in a committee debate and see what problems there are and what the findings of the working group are.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-12.u74	I think it would be fine to share that information. I have no objection to that. I will also ask Mr Vlecken himself whether he has any objection to this as chairman of the project group. Knowing Mr Vlecken is my estimate that he probably has no objection to that. But I'll check with him later. Mr. Chairman. Then we are going through the answer rather quickly, because we have now had the investigative powers, independence, funding and the law itself. So I would also like to look at the Members to see if that raises any questions at the moment. Mr. Chairman. Then the waterboards. Mrs Van der Graaf had a point to make. Indeed, we must also look closely at the entry into force. The bill allows for phased entry into force. In my view, all the water boards except three have that out of my mind at the moment, but I think it is right that I should simply consult with the Union of Water Councils on the desired entry into force to ensure that it lands properly. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Van der Graaf also asked about the BES islands. The law Reinforcement decentralised audit rooms does not have...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-12.u75	It was Mrs Van Dijk who asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-12.u76	Mrs. Van Dijk, excuse me! I'm sorry, Mrs. Van Dijk, that I misplaced it with Mrs. Van der Graaf. I saw Mrs Van der Graaf nodding, so fortunately she also thinks it is an important subject. The draft law Reinforcement of decentralised audit chambers has no impact on the Chamber of Auditors in the Caribbean Netherlands. An amendment to the Public Entities Act BES and the Finance Act BES is currently in preparation. We consider whether and if so which powers of the Audit Board in the Caribbean Netherlands are taken over in the Public Authorities Act BES. That means that we are taking up the question that Mrs Van Dijk is asking about the Court of Auditors in that bill and we are considering whether powers are needed, and if so, which ones. We expect that at least at the end of this year we will submit these two legislative proposals to the Advisory Section of the Council of State. Mr. Chairman. Then the very good attention of Mrs Van der Graaf when it comes to the coincidence between the Open Government Act and this bill. The first thing we saw was indeed that the technical reference to some of the members of the Article, or at least the numbering, is not entirely correct. We're going to dive in there and see what kind of short-term technical omissions we can restore. I myself, as Minister, have also said that if necessary, I will simply take back the classic law of sweeping. It is ideally suited for this purpose, because our first picture is that it is mainly technical references. So thanks and also compliments for that perceptiveness. We're gonna see if we can do that in repair legislation. At least it does not pose any problems for this bill, but we will have to deal with it elsewhere. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the amendments. First, Mrs van der Graaf's amendment on periodic reporting. I think that is a good amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-12.u77	That is the amendment to item No. 18.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-12.u78	Yes. In my opinion, it is very important that you not only produce reports, but that a college of Deputy States, a college of mayors and aldermen or a daily administration of a water authority really shows what it has done with these recommendations every year. The only thing I would like to ask Mrs van der Graaf and Mrs Arib for legal history is this. I assume, however, that these recommendations, if implemented at some point, can be removed from that list in the long term, otherwise we will have very long lists. That's not in the explanatory statement, but I thought I'd ask.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-12.u79	Yes, so at the moment when the recommendations have been fully followed up as the city council or the parliament wanted, they can indeed be removed from the list. This also gives me the opportunity to point out that the failure to adopt a recommendation made by the Court of Auditors is always a decision of the Parliamentary Assembly, and that this is also reflected in the Court of Auditors' report and recommendations. It is also good to mention this here for the sake of completeness.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-12.u80	That seems to me to be a very good addition, because it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-12.u81	One more amendment has been added. The amendment is now in part No. 18. It is now explicitly stated that it cannot take account of recommendations made to the parliament, so that obligation does not lie with the college.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-12.u82	That is also a very good point.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-12.u83	And that's what the amendment gets?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-12.u84	The verdict is "Room of Judgment."
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-12.u85	I just wanted to hear it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-12.u86	I'm still having second thoughts about the following. That may not be my role as Minister, but if Mrs Van der Graaf and Mrs Arib were still able to include these three points in the explanatory statement to the amendment, that would of course always be useful. But I leave that to them; that is not up to me. But further judgment room. I should like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done on this subject. 17. Am I right?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-12.u87	Yes, correct.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-12.u88	I fully agree that it is good to clarify the investigative powers and I can give the judgment Chamber. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the last amendment. That is the amendment to item No. 16 by Mrs Van Dijk. I conclude from this that Mrs Van Dijk and I simply have a difference of opinion or a different perspective as regards the connection between the Board and the Court of Auditors. I myself have just argued that I see several ways in which an independent Court of Auditors in which no council members are sitting can perfectly relate to the city council. From Mrs Van Dijk's speech and also from the amendment, I would like to point out that she has a different view and that she is concerned about this. I hope I have been able to deal with her concerns in this respect, but at least I disagree with Mrs Van Dijk on this point and I therefore advise against the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-12.u89	Judgments on amendments and motions are important. We have different degrees for that. In my view, that amendment turns into part No. 16 really the intention of the bill diametrically back. I also understand that you can take a different view on this and say: we do not agree with each other. But that's what the amendment actually does, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-12.u90	The amendment indeed stipulates that council members may continue to sit in a Court of Auditors. That is not the wish of the cabinet, because we want to strengthen dependence, also because we are increasing the powers of investigation. However, the amendment stipulates that council members can no longer sit in the Court of Auditors by majority, but the commitment of the Cabinet is that the council members simply no longer have a seat in the Court of Auditors. This was my answer, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-12.u91	Thank you. Then we've come to the end of the first term. I'm just looking at the members to see if there's a need for a second term. Or can we give up on that? I think all the members say we can waive... oh, you still want to, Mr. Strolenberg. The other members waive their term. Then I give the floor to Mr Strolenberg, VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-12.u92	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you also to the Minister for the answers. I have no further comments. A more or less commitment has already been made; something about showing the budgets that are now being devoted to audit rooms in respect of decentralised audit chambers. Nevertheless, I would like to table a motion that is even more specific, also in relation to my contribution. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas audit services support municipal councils in carrying out their audit tasks;]] [[noting that not all municipalities have sufficient budget available and make available;]] [[believes that good independent accounting research into policies contributes to the quality of local democracy and is in the interest of the inhabitants of municipalities;]] [[calls on the government to reflect the amount currently spent per capita per municipality on audit;]] [[calls on the Government, while respecting municipal autonomy, to examine, in consultation with the Netherlands Association of Courts of Auditors and Court of Auditors, the amount per inhabitant per municipality for municipalities should be sufficient to carry out independent audit,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Strolenberg.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35298-19]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-12.u93	If that last paragraph can be specifically promised, of course we do not need to put the motion to the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-12.u94	Then that's how we're gonna hear it from the Minister. Mrs Inge van Dijk also needs a second term. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-12.u95	Mr. Chairman. I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas improving the functioning requires an understanding of the quality and independence of local accounting reports;]] [[calls on the Bureau to ask the General Court to have a sample of 10 audit chamber reports evaluated each year for quality and independence and to involve the results of that study in the evaluation of the law,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the local audit function makes an important contribution to the administrative decision-making and public accountability of local policies;]] [[Whereas it is undesirable that there are municipalities which have no audit function or dormant accounting;]] [[calls on the Government, in consultation with the Association of Dutch Municipalities, to draw up a plan to encourage municipalities with a poorly functioning accounting office or audit function to improve,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Inge van Dijk.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35298-20]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Inge van Dijk.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35298-21]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-12.u96	A question on the first motion, which Mrs Van Dijk quickly spoke out. What exactly was the request? A request to the Bureau to make a request to the General Court, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-12.u97	I have wrestled with the wording, because we cannot, of course, make a request to the General Court. Hence the wording "calls on the Bureau to request the General Court'. Because we can't give orders, as you clearly say. I thought that's how I put it correctly. It seemed to me a sensible question to ask, because we have had quite a discussion here about the quality that we consider so important. Especially in the case of the review of the law, this might lead to improvements.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-12.u98	The intention is clear. We can't give orders. I just didn't hear it so well. I'm gonna think about it. I also think it is important to hear what the Minister says about it, regardless of the fact that this is a decision that we ourselves take as a Chamber, but in another way it might also be included in the evaluation. I'm a little surprised at the contents of the last motion. I believe that the request from the motion is exactly the legislative proposal before us.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-12.u99	No, that motion is about culture. This is about: together with the VNG, go hand in hand, to the municipalities that we see with each other that things are not going well. The discussion should look at where the bottlenecks are and ensure that it is going to work. So it's not about forcing, it's about: how are we going to do better together?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-12.u100	Okay, well, then I have a very clear idea of how Mrs Van Dijk means the motion. I am a little concerned about that, because the VNG is so opposed to the bill, while the bill aims to do what you would like. We just need to see how we vote. [[Sentence could not be parsed: Maar dank u wel.]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-12.u101	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-12.u102	Thank you, Mrs Van Dijk. Is the Minister able to answer? No, not yet. I'm suspending for a single moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-12.u103	I give the floor to the Minister for the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-12.u104	Mr. Chairman. Thank you for the various motions. The first motion is by Mr Strolenberg. I did agree to that. I can take over the motion or she can be withdrawn. It fits inside what I said.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-12.u105	Let me take a look at Mr Strolenberg. A promise is a promise, I'm just saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-12.u106	Fine. In particular, it was the first piece, the presentation of the budget. The second is to actively ask the NVRR to indicate by municipality what would be about a desired amount.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-12.u107	Thank you. You're withdrawing the motion with that? We're gonna need to hear that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-12.u108	Taking over sounds more attractive.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-12.u109	Take over. Is there any objection to that? That is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-12.u110	Mrs Van Dijk's second motion is a motion to the Bureau of the Chamber. I will not give any further explanation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-12.u111	I understand, because the motion is so formulated. But does the Minister think it would be useful to do this for the evaluation of the bill? 'Cause that's what's important to me when it comes to considering. Are there any other roads? Is it possible that quality tests are already being carried out?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-12.u112	The General Court of Auditors is a High College of State and is itself responsible for the implementation of its work. As a minister myself, I am always very reluctant to find anything of that. I am not talking about what they are picking up, and I cannot therefore judge whether they see this as something they should be taking up. I would like to give my word, but that is not so much this motion for a resolution that I would like to look at in the evaluation of this bill at what the establishment of the independent auditors has done for the quality of the reports. In any case, I shall ask for a qualitative answer. But I'm not going to interfere with the General Court's work. I don't have any control over that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-12.u113	That is, of course, entirely correct and I do not think Mrs Van Dijk intended the motion to be so. But she better say it herself. I am more concerned with this: if we adopt the motion and the Court of Auditors says that it can do so and wants to play a role in it, I see their involvement in the preparation of the law in this legislative proposal. Like, no, I'm doing this another way. I think it's important to know.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-12.u114	No, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-12.u115	Mrs Inge van Dijk, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-12.u116	The debate is also about whether quality and independence are sufficient. The most important thing is that we make an explicit assessment of this. In the evaluation and handshake of concrete reports, we need to understand the practice to see what is happening in practice and whether or not our concerns are justified.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-12.u117	Then you'll withdraw the motion? Is that the point?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-12.u118	If there is a commitment that the evaluation will look very closely at that, I can withdraw the motion. I am looking for how we can take this step and include it in the evaluation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-12.u119	Then I look at it as a minister myself, but then the General Court does not look at it. If that's enough... recovery. I mean to say that as a minister I look critically at the quality, but that the General Court does not. If Mrs Van Dijk is okay with that, I'll take that up with the evaluation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-12.u120	I think we have the same goal. I find the cure a little less relevant.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-12.u121	Thank you, Mrs Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-12.u122	The third motion tabled by Mrs Van Dijk, the motion in part No. 21, is in line with the work that I have taken up together with the Association of Dutch Municipalities and the project group. That's what we're going through with. We are doing that at the moment, because the bill has not yet become a law. So we also have work to do with each other to get the dormitories back to work at the moment. We're not gonna wait on that. So judge Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-12.u123	I hear the minister saying she's doing this. I'll see if this motion can be taken over if that's the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-12.u124	It seems to me that I can take over this motion, because it is in line with the commitment I make. I think that's fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-12.u125	Mrs. Van Dijk, is that all right with you? Yes. Is there any objection to that? That is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-12.u126	We have noted that the Minister has made a number of commitments to the Chamber. I would have liked this to be practical, because it is not entirely related to the legislative proposal, but can also be considered separately. It's about the questions about funding and about integrity. Can the Minister set a deadline when she returns to the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-12.u127	I'm on it. Of course, I also have the treatment to do in the First Chamber. I have understood Mr Bosma in such a way that I can do so with speed. I didn't know Mr Bosma had a plumeau at home, but they still seem to exist. Let's just say I'll be back in the first half of 2023. If it's okay, I've finished the bill. In the meantime, I can do the research on the funding and then it gets better together.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-12.u128	Thank you. That concludes this debate. I would like to thank the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations, the Members of Parliament and the people who have followed the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-12.u129	Next Tuesday we are going to vote on the bill and the amendments. There are no motions. So that's what we're gonna do next Tuesday. That's what brought us to the very end. I also thank the staff and the support. I'm suspending, no, I'm closing the meeting. We're all done today, almost 6:00. I will close the meeting and wish the members a happy Ascension Day tomorrow.
