ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u1	The next item is the report by the Temporary Committee on Implementation Organisations 'Clamp between desk and policy'. I would like to welcome the Minister for Poverty Policy, Participation and Pensions and the Secretary of State for the Interior and Kingdom Relations. Unfortunately, the Minister of the Interior and Kingdom Relations is not present because of illness, but the honours are observed, so that is in good hands. I would also like to welcome the members of the Temporary Committee on Implementing Organisations who have taken their seats in the lodge. Very nice to see former colleagues: André Bosman, Nevin Özütok and Corrie van Brenn. The members of the committee presented the report just before the Lower House elections and the Permanent Committee for Home Affairs held an exchange of views on this matter last November. In addition, the report has also provided input for the Van der Staaij working group. So it's already working on it. Today we have the debate. First of all, if she is present in the house, I would like to give the floor to Mrs Van der Plas of BBB for her contribution. Maybe someone could see where Mrs. Van der Plas is. I would also like to welcome the people in the public gallery and the viewers who are following the debate in a different way.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u2	While we are waiting for Mrs Van der Plas, it might be good to know how many interruptions we have in this important debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u3	Mrs Maatoug is asking about the number of interruptions. I totally get the question. If, in any case, you want to comply with short interruptions, not very long introductions, but just to save them for your contribution, then I think we should come a long way. That also saves Mrs Leijten's interruption, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u4	Mr President, I fully support that. I think that the management of the Chamber with interruptions, which is not the intention, but what sometimes happens, something we should not do in this debate. It is indeed up to us to restrict ourselves a little and to be concise.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u5	Look! I shall then give the floor to Mr Van Baarle van DENK to move on, because Mrs Van der Plas is not here at the moment. But then I hope to give her the floor again soon. Go ahead, Mr. Van Baarle of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u6	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Let me begin by thanking the members of the committee, on behalf of the DENK Group, for their work and for producing this valuable report. Mr. Chairman. People who get a fine because they got messages from their families out of charity, young people who have to leave the house because their parents would otherwise be cut off on the benefit, people who have been destroyed by racist risk models, elderly people who are nowhere to go for personal contact and sentenced to the impersonal digital government. The human measure in the government is lost and the government has in some cases become an enemy of its own citizen. The Temporary Committee on Implementing Organisations draws dramatic conclusions on the implementation policy and service of our government, conclusions that both the Chamber and the government must think about. My first question to the government is whether it endorses all the conclusions and recommendations contained in the report. I couldn't see that in the first brief reaction. When can the Court see a real plan of implementation of the recommendations and when, according to the government, is this improvement operation actually a success? Mr. Chairman. The report sketches a deafening picture of a government that has completely lost sight of man. Years of cuts in the civil service and profit-thinking, the neoliberal ideas in which the government is run as a company, have ensured that people no longer stand first, but Excel sheets. The citizen has become a customer who can no longer go to the government personally. Does the government endorse this problem analysis? Does the government share the conclusion from the report that a central management philosophy about how you deal with people, based on human size, is missing? What new philosophy of governance does the government see for the future? How is the government going to ensure that we have such a new governance philosophy carried throughout the government? How is the government going to get personal contact back to normal? Are we finally going to invest more in administrative capacity? Mr. Chairman. One of the most important conclusions is that we need to take greater account of the perspective of implementation and the people in the country, including us as Chambers. That lesson also attracts the group of DENK. It is important for the public authorities to have an overall balance. When can we see the revised version? Why should that take two years, as I read in a letter? Are we also going to subject all the laws that we get in the Lower House, before the documents come to the Chamber, to a power test, as proposed by the WRR? I'd like a response from the government. Mr. Chairman. The Committee also concludes that the possibilities of providing tailor-made services to help people are not sufficiently exploited. The reasons for this are twofold: on the one hand a lack of knowledge of the possibilities and, on the other hand, our hard legislation and regulations. What is the status of training and support for officials and staff in the area of tailor-made solutions? Are those training courses running yet? How many people are getting these training courses? Will that also be rolled out in all implementing organisations? Are the training courses actually compulsory? When is the analysis of toughness in our legislation finally ready and can we look forward to the Government's proposals to make more tailor-made work possible in our legislation? Finally, Mr President. It is important that the government is there for everyone. A good service also means: being able to connect with different cultural experiences. It means taking into account people who may not yet know the language very well. It means that the government is not allowed to judge people based on their origins. It means being sensitive to diversity. This raises the question of how the government is going to ensure that cultural sensitivity is promoted within all levels of government in the provision of services and in implementation. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u7	Thank you. I shall now give the floor to Mr Sneller of D66. Unfortunately, Mrs van der Plas of BBB has had to opt out of this debate. I call Mr Sneller, Mr D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u8	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. You could hear a pin fall, so quiet it was in the then full-class K when Rob Jetten as D66 group chairman asked: who of you doesn't have problems with a performance organisation? That was a disturbing silence, wasn't it? The Temporary Committee on Implementing Organisations has produced an excellent report with striking analyses and useful recommendations. Many thanks to the members of the committee present and the others. But of course there were earlier and more often warning words and clear diagnoses and ideas about how things could be better. The central question as far as I am concerned is: how do we make sure that this time is different from all the others?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u9	That would be exactly the answer to that question. My question to D66 would be: if we all accept and embrace these recommendations... As far as the SP is concerned, that does not apply to the execution test or motions, because I think that is actually a restriction on our democratic position. But what if we take over completely? Do we have the leak upstairs?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u10	Well, at least we're a long way off. But the rest of my argument is that it's not just about embracing and saying "you know what, we're all doing it." We sat together in the Van der Staaij working group and made all these recommendations. Next, it is a question of ensuring that these recommendations are complied with in practice. That's what it comes down to in the end. Well, then, I guess, we've got a lot to catch.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u11	Mr. Sneller. Sorry, Mr... Mrs. Leijten. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u12	No, I did not become Mrs Sneller indeed, but perhaps Mr Sneller and Mrs Leijten will get closer together. I will say in a moment that there is something fundamentally wrong with how the inhabitants of our country have access to institutions and that that is because in recent years, in fact without political ideology, the welfare state has been undermined and we have been given back a government that is an enemy of people. In this report it says: there is no knowledge in the House of Representatives about the execution. That is, of course, true for a majority of the Chamber. However, for example, there was a public warning about the accommodation of the surcharges at the Tax Office. They just didn't listen. So there is often knowledge, but there is no listening. Look at the chairman. We have had whole debates on the decentralisation of care. All the arguments were exchanged at that time, but they were not listened to. How are we going to change, I would like to know from D66, that we can also listen and look at society as a whole in that balance of interests and therefore also at that implementation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u13	That is exactly what I mean when I say that there should not just be an execution test. We must then also value him and take that performance test seriously. The same applies to the power test and the same applies to the input test: then you have to do something with it. We can have this discussion for a very long time, but I think that is the essence.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u14	But there are now management solutions for a politically substantive problem. 'Cause who's gonna take the Who's gonna take the execution test? That should not be the ones who do not have enough listening and distance. In fact, I do not think that the implementation is being listened to by a majority. You often see a gap between the top, management and the people who do the practical work in implementing organisations. There too you can see that there is often a culture of fear or a culture of hiding away. Of course, you didn't tackle that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u15	That is one of the recommendations that was raised in the round table with the members of the committee. It's not just that what they call the greening, that the advice of a board of directors of an executive organisation is positive, when it actually started with employees who have to work with it who said that this is actually not possible. That is why one of the great recommendations was to talk to the people who actually have to do it and the people who really have to face it. Well, we're gonna have to do that. Then there must also be enough MPs present when that is organised. Then it must also be said that I agree with Mrs Leijten that everyone who then conducts or should vote on it must take it sufficiently seriously.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u16	All right, let's finish. Maybe D66 and the SP can pull in together. It is said that the Lower House has insufficient knowledge of the execution. I believe that the President of the Court of Auditors wrote it even more sharply in his letter which he also sent to us. At the same time, we must not have any contact with that experience. Shouldn't we review the ukaze-Kok, which is now called the "ukajsa" internally, because it has changed a little bit? As a result, we could have that contact and the implementation also thinks that he can have that contact with us.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u17	I think that dealing with that okay can be much more flexible and can certainly be much wider in the experience. So let's take advantage of it. I think that's what we're dealing with mostly. We must therefore make that request and enter into that conversation. My experience in the past few months is that we organize a lot and then with a limited group we make that conversation or that work visit. The Justice Department is now in my wallet. We finally spoke to a very limited group with the employees. Let's get that cramp off. Fortunately, Mrs Leijten and I are sitting together in a working group to see how we can take that one step further.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u18	"Do" is the keyword, I think, because the advice is there and we share it. I myself was a little shocked when I was preparing this debate. I came across the reports of the Vonhoff Committee from the 1980s. When I read it, I thought, "Wow, those are pretty good advice." The bibliography of the report we are discussing today refers to this, and to many other reports. That's what we've been looking at over the past few decades. My question to Mr D66, Mr Sneller, whom I hold high, is: what are we going to do to change the capacity of the Chamber and our behaviour? I've always learned that abstract discussions are fine, but let's make it concrete. In addition to the lack of guidance, perhaps due to fragmentation, we have also seen that political agreements are often made at instrument level. It looks good in the analysis. We have seen that it is important to preserve and maintain the majorities. My question to my colleague from D66 is: what happens if an agreement under the government agreement, for example, which is complex about the rent payment, is not feasible? What is the discussion that my honourable colleague, Mr Tugendhat, is asking through you, President-in-Office of the Council, within the group? How would we be there as a room... I specifically ask my colleague as a coalition member.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u19	But that is not as a spokesperson rent allowance, whereas Mrs Maatoug herself is. So that's tricky. That will be a complicated discussion on the content. I believe that the starting point is that agreements should be made more on the basis of objectives rather than choice of instruments. Before the coalition agreement was concluded, I argued the same thing here. Then you have a political reality, but I think the Chamber is well aware that unworkable measures are ultimately working against everyone, especially those who voted for them and have thereby brought about the misery of themselves. Well, I don't know the specific example. But in the area where I am a spokesperson, I note that we take the implementation very seriously, as well as the discussions on how we are going to shape it. Tonight we have a debate on the exchange of information between municipalities and the Bibob Act. In addition, we are going to talk about the execution again. In fact, the coalition agreement states that we must make the exchange between municipalities easier. But is this for the municipalities and the rural office of Bibob to do this way too? That perspective must therefore be taken into account much more seriously.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u20	I had deliberately chosen an example that is not in my portfolio either. I thought that would help to make it concrete. The reason I'm making it so concrete is as follows. It's the underlying thing that matters to me. What happens if the political agreement falls out of the coalition agreement? Then what do you fall back on? The reason I'm asking is because I don't know. My experience is that it is very difficult to fall back on anything. In the report of the state service it says: "Go and reason it from social challenges." It's very difficult to tell what the underlying goal is. You can then look for something else that fits within that target. Soon you will be hampered by financial frameworks or other agreements. Is it perhaps a conversation we haven't seen in this room in the last few years? So, apart from the example of the rent payment, my question would be: how does my worthy colleague from D66 see it for himself at the moment that something is not feasible? What's the conversation we're having in this room? How do we do that? And how does my colleague see that, specifically as someone from the coalition group?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u21	Political reality is there for the coalition and for the opposition. It is also in such a coalition agreement by appointment different what the underlying is. Sometimes it's a totem pole of a particular batch. Sometimes it is quite clear that we have made a choice to achieve a certain social goal, something that a number of parties or one party cares about, or all parties. Then you stand out: how can we achieve that goal better? In the previous period, of course, we also had this with instruments that fell away. Then you look for an alternative instrument that achieves the same goal. Then you don't go all the way to a blank paper again. That social goal then stands. Then we do not have to go back to the question of what was the problem at all. A direction has certainly been chosen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u22	Finally, my final question, and I hope that the answer will then come back to the rest of my colleague's speech. How do we ensure that what we are discussing and what is being shared, as Mrs Leijten and Mr Sneller have just said, will not become like the Vonhoff report or all the reports to which this committee has referred? I don't have the answer yet and I would be very sorry if we didn't have it today. I am very curious to know how D66's colleague answers that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u23	A little faint from Mrs Maatoug, because I was going to put that question to her at the end of my speech and to the other colleagues. We see a number of dynamics and the question is how we're going to transcend them. Part of it is that, despite the fragmentation, we ensure that there is more mass and more attention to the things that we say together in debates like this matter. This means, however, that if the Court of Auditors presents a report, we will be present with enough Members to allow it to go on and take note of it at all. This means that if there is a complicated report from the Court of Auditors with a clear diagnosis of how to tackle environmental crime, we are thinking together: how can we force the Cabinet to do so, despite the fragmented responsibilities of the Cabinet, that we have joint structural attention to this. So let's not ask for a cabinet response. Because then it will be on a committee debate with 15 other letters that no one really cares about and for which there is certainly no attention. The directors who are responsible do not think "they are really careful about it," but have more of it: it was apparently a must. In recent times, in a number of these debates, technical briefings and reports, I thought: how are we going to break it? I have also seen fine examples, for example in the Committee on Justice with two legislative rapporteurs, Mr Van Nispen and Mr Ellian, who, on behalf of the committee, initially started the debate with the cabinet. I think that kind of new forms of work can help. My speech has now come to an end in the interruptions, but it is also about: what is in those knowledge agendas? We have it in Home Affairs on the knowledge agenda. We have a number of other implementation organisations at other standing Chambers. The point is that we are going to do more together at least from here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u24	Is it all right if Mr Sneller finishes his speech first and then a question is asked, Mrs Leijten?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u25	Mr. Chairman. I apologize for any repetition of what I just said. During the preparation I was reminded of the ship of state of the election poster of the Free-Democratic League from 1922: our execution organizations as proud sailing ship. Clearly maintenance is needed and more crew as well, but reven or lay down in the wind, that is not an option. In fact, the waves go high with the corona pandemic and the war in Ukraine. And instead of paying attention to worn rigging, we want an extra spinaker and a new flag in the mast; you get the picture. Fortunately, I think the performance has the wind. A lot has happened since the TCU report. There is broad political support for more hardness clauses in legislation and more space for people to deliver tailor-made implementation and for citizens to get more personal contact with the government. In the coalition agreement, at least for the next ten years, 600 million per year is now earmarked to strengthen implementation. I already mentioned them. For the legislative process we have many good intentions: the execution test, the introduction test or the reflection test, the do-it-yourself test, the science test, not to mention the generation test. The implementation of the TCU recommendations is also included in several knowledge agendas. The report of the Van der Staaij working group is packed with proposals to make the citizen's perspective but also the signals of implementation sound better in Parliament. In short, the toolbox is well filled. It is now a question of actually using the available instruments and leaving our trenches from time to time. It's often something like this. The cabinet announces: "We will introduce measure X as of 2026." The proponents say, "So late? What a lack of ambition." And the adversaries say: "Soon? Nothing learned, huh, from the TCU." Then the responsible ruler says, because that's what they always say: "This is the optimal balance between speed and care." To which the proponents conclude, "See? The execution test is politically abused to simply postpone plans that this minister does not want to postpone." While the opponents also see their own equally confirmed and exclaimed: "See? That execution test is greening, because it had to be under political pressure if necessary." Each time the Minister abuses the execution in one way or another, such a performance test is behind the next time with 10-0. The question I ask everyone but specifically to Mrs Maatoug is: how do we transcend this dynamic? Mr. Chairman. I agree with all the questions that Mr Van Baarle has asked. I had two very specific ones. Can the Minister reflect on the letter sent to us by the Court of Auditors? In fact, despite all the improvements we are going to make in the implementation, it calls for a review of the organisation. Do these have to be Zbos? Do we have to move this further away or do we have to keep it closer to us? Finally. How is the sense of and experience of policy implementation well secured in the core departments? I suggest that each board of directors of each ministry should have at least one person who has extensive experience in implementation practice. In any case, there must be sufficient experience.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u26	Thank you. There is an interruption by Mrs Leijten, SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u27	These are all management solutions that you cannot oppose, but which are no guarantee of success. I think you should ask the question why they are not listening to what the implementation says. Does D66 have an analysis of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u28	No. We try very much to listen to the performance and then to do something with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u29	Sorry, but that is not the experience of the SP Group. If someone is critical of, for example, how distance standards are dealt with by windmills, they say: you are a climate denier. When someone asks critical questions about the corona policy, he gets put away like a waffle. Then you're not listening. Then you're just framing it, looking down from your own moral high ground. Then you won't listen. If you say here that it will all work out if we hold briefings, if we do a do-it-yourself test and if we are all present, then I do not believe it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u30	And do something with it. Mrs Leijten is now throwing politicians who say certain things at one pile with people from the execution and talking about how to deal with them. If we have had a work visit to a penitentiary institution, I can see that we are doing something about it in a debate on the prison system, and not just the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u31	It's not about beating us on the chest. We have made a lot of reports: The GP speaking, The farmer speaking, The GGZ speaking... They are all hoarded away, all hoarded away. The Minister said: I always find it very special to listen to the practice; that is what the SP does well. But D66 often took that away, because it wasn't their own management language. I think we should agree that we should step away from that management idea and try to find the keys to convert the deeper layer that's underneath it, namely the inflamed distrust and looking at people like a customer. But then there must be the will to dig deeper than in the report of the temporary committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u32	I'm just leaving all of Mrs Leijten's disqualifications with her. I am trying to have a constructive debate here, and I have not used the words that Mrs Leijten has now given me once in those four years. We are looking very seriously, for example, at Mr Van Nispen's proposals and the reports he brings forward. So it's just not true. I am very willing to listen to her solutions that make it all better.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u33	Finally, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u34	I will say in a moment that I am very pleased with the work of the Temporary Committee on Implementing Organisations, but I do think that we should want to go deeper with each other. It is my firm conviction that we will not be there if we all embrace these recommendations, except for the execution test for that motion, but I have already argued that. Then the fear culture is not gone. Then the culture of silence is not gone. People are afraid to say something, because listening is put away and framed in politics. It's an ugly thing to do. There's no listening here. If we do not listen here and are interested in what the other says, then we will not get anywhere. Then one of the analyses of this report is that the Court knows too little about its implementation. I think we all know that, but we are not listening to each other and certainly not to the performance. Shouldn't we just say today that the will is there to do better?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u35	There is. But I have the impression that Mrs Leijten knows me better than she does now. That's the lake. I am very willing to listen a bit deeper and to look at the analysis of the political system. I have in the past put forward solutions for more structural reforms of the political system. I think they could help with that. But at least let's try to find each other today. I am glad that she embraces all the recommendations, so that at least we have a common lead to move forward. Maybe we're not quite there yet, but at least we'll be a lot further.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u36	Mr President, I heard you say 'finally', so I shall leave it at that. It's not meant to be disqualification, but there's a big difference between word and deed. There is a wonderful report on the attack plan for the information position of the Chamber. There's even been a government commissioner for archiving. At the same time, in November, we received a law that does not meet the standard for archiving, which does not fit in with it. There's something going on in the government that we all say "very good, hosanna!" And there's money for that, too. Finally there is something, but then there is a law that everyone in the world of archives says: that is a step backwards instead of forwards. How is that possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u37	Mrs Leijten then came to me and said: I think we need to do something with this; we need to organise a round table. Then we said: that seems to us to be an excellent idea. I think we'll go completely with her. We have the same kind of situation in the whistleblowers directive with people who do not feel safe. We'll be in common as Chambers. I have literally said to Mrs Leijten: I fully support this; I have the feeling that you are doing the right thing, I wish you every success and I am happy to hear it. As for that fear culture, we have been endlessly busy with the Operation Understanding Quality in the previous period to see how we can improve that. We are looking at the dynamics on both sides. We are looking not only at the administration and the political leadership, but also at what we can do here and how we can strengthen each other in it, so that this constructive dialogue can get off to a much better start. That way we can all get better. That is not something the political parties in this Chamber need to split up.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u38	Thank you, Mr. Faster. We're going to listen to Mrs. Van der Graaf of the Christian Union. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u39	Madam President, thank you very much for the floor. First of all, I would like to thank André Bosman, Nevin Özütok, Evert-Jan Slootweg, Cem Laçin, John Kerstens, Maarten Groothuizen and Corrie van Brenn, my former colleagues, and their support staff for the much work they have put into this report. As a member of the Committee of Inquiry, I know how much work is involved. I very much appreciate that, and also the recommendations they have made. Their conclusions are firm. The Second Chamber and the Cabinet have for years neglected the execution. We're gonna need a cover. This is a long-term issue for the Christian Union and lasting attention. The Netherlands is not an e.g. that needs to be controlled. The Christian Union is firmly convinced of this. For a long time, we have argued that the government is there to serve society, as a manager of public and common interests. In recent decades, too much has been directed towards a small government and too little at a serviceable government. We need a government that also knows its own limitations, that is accessible and approachable, that knows how bad systems and rules can sometimes connect to real life and therefore builds space to move. That is much, much harder than it sounds, because precisely in an attempt to take into account all the differences, which is our tendency, we in the Netherlands have stretched a web of arrangements in which people are very easily entangled. The people who have the least to spend are in the most complex situation, where a small mistake can have major consequences. That's what we saw in the supplemental affair. The Bosman Committee refers to a very important report by the WRR, Knowing is not yet doing, in which it deals with the self-reliance of citizens and the fact that the government overestimates them structurally. The WRR also concludes that it can happen to all of us, whatever situation you're in. Life can sometimes run into it and suddenly it can be very complicated to get out of it. With the Bosman Committee, therefore, I would like to draw attention once again to the power test and I would ask a reaction from the cabinet: how will this be implemented? Because this is also in the coalition agreement. If people are lost in the forest of rules, they must also have direct contact with the government. What is the situation with regard to the principle that there is no wrong door? Mr. Chairman. Problems in implementation need to be identified very quickly. People from practice can share experiences with policy makers and MPs, but they can also be third parties, others. I have seen this, for example, at the Legal Aid Council, where people from the Surcharge affair came forward very quickly because they did not come out. At such a site we need to pick up the signals much more clearly and much earlier. I would also like to receive a response from the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u40	I have a question about the web of rules; that is a nice phrase. Also considering the letters we received about the first observations and the first interviews, you are quite amazed at the web of rules in the construction of social security. Especially when you take up the Constitution, when you consider that we have all said that the security of existence of people is a task for all of us and for the government, and when you look at the origins of that web of rules, you see more and more focus of instruments, because oh dear when we spend a euro too much to help people. Oh, dear, if we give someone something more than what he is entitled to, while the origin of our welfare state, I look at Mr Nijboer; we are on the shoulders of that social democracy, consisting of great generic rules. We didn't have to change the AOW. It's just a good piece of work. It's gone wrong somewhere. My question is: how did we end up in that web of rules in that security of existence?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u41	The Bosman Committee has written a lot about this. I myself see a certain tendency to think of a new solution every time we encounter a problem without taking a moment to think about how to make it simpler and simpler. That's a slightly bigger solution. I almost got to the point of self-reflection of the House of Representatives, because I think we should look at ourselves here too.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u42	One of the things I'm wondering about is how my colleague sees it. It's whether we'd get less complicated rules if we put the security of existence at the centre of our lives and if we don't mind someone getting a little too much. My specific question is: does my colleague share that it is okay if we are sometimes less focused if that means that more people have security of existence?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u43	I think these words also touch a little on what's on my heart. When I read the report, the word "trust" was very central to me: what confidence do we have? I'm just looking for the right phrases, because this might be what we're talking about at the core. We talk a lot about the lack of trust that citizens currently have in the government, but a whole other point is the confidence that the government has in the citizen. That's a different view of the case, but I think this is missing somewhere. The Bosman Committee also points to the professionalism of people. It's important that you make rules, but you can't put everything in a rule. There must always be room for a hardness clause so that there can also be an eye for that. I would like to refer to this as 'a mercy test', precisely from giving that confidence to the professionals, the people who work in implementing organisations with the rules that we have made, in order to be able to act on them as well. I think that's important. For me, that's something I take from this report, when I get laws in mind, to look at it and take that perspective with me and bring it in for treatments. I think that's my reaction to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u44	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u45	This also affects the next point. The Committee also notes that when identifying and reporting problems it is appropriate that the employee should be employed by society and not in the service of the minister, and that this should also be reflected in the oath or promise made by officials. Is the cabinet also prepared to do so, so to focus on a serviceable society and to express this in the oath and promise? The Bosman Committee is keen when it comes to the role of the House of Representatives. The Chamber has a blind spot for execution, there is too little knowledge and interest in the Chamber and the Chamber has too little information, according to the Committee. That's harsh. In the Groene Amsterdammer top officials say: square-wheeled policies cannot run smoothly in the implementation. I think that's a visual statement. We need to take this into account, and we need to ask ourselves more often and out loud whether laws can be implemented and understood. And if we cannot answer that question ourselves as a Chamber, for example, there should be easy contact between MPs and implementation organisations in case of initiative laws and amendments. The Bosman Committee points out that not all obstacles have yet been removed. I ask the cabinet what it needs to do to make that really possible. I have also experienced myself as a Member of Parliament that sometimes it is very difficult to make something for each other, even if you want to. My group thinks it is a good idea, for example, to ask the implementation organisations for this light test directly in the case of amendments. This is in line with the question put by Mr Sneller. He has clearly laid down the dilemma and the dynamics that can exist around it in the Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u46	Are you at the end of your speech? Then I give the floor to Mr Nijboer, PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u47	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u48	If we really want to improve this problem, I think it is also important that everyone is a bit rolling. I therefore believe, in principle, and I therefore also ask Mrs Van der Graaf, that the cabinet is responsible for the enforcement of laws. We cannot judge that as individual Members of Parliament by law. We deal with dozens of laws, so we can't judge that at all. What we in the Chamber are responsible for is asking the right questions. That's one. Secondly, we should not push things politically for political reasons when we know that we cannot. I think that is a bit of a division of roles, but I really do not want us to take responsibility for every law, every detail of the legislation and every general measure of governance, because we cannot do that with our one and a half men and a horse's head of staff. Does Mrs. Van der Graaf share that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u49	I understand the point made by Mr Nijboer and I understand it. I think that, of course, we can demand from the cabinet and ask that the laws they lay down here are enforceable. I also think that we can then ask the cabinet as MPs if it has asked the citizen, so to speak, how this can work out in practice, with whom the cabinet has spoken to test it, and whether this responds to the question and need of people. I think that Mr Nijboer is right to point out a tension in the way in which this can be implemented in practice. It does not relieve us of responsibility, but I must also say quite frankly that I have hardly experienced it. I know the MPs and colleagues, also from the previous period, as people who are looking for contact with people and who are also raising these signals in legal proceedings and debates. I see that as well, and we will always have to put that perspective in place.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u50	I think we're just agreed on this. I wanted to be a little careful that we take on our shoulders the wrath of all the misery of non-executable legislation as MPs. We have also made mistakes; for political reasons, Parliament has also pushed through unexecutable things by majority. The supplement system is one of the most pressing examples of this, but there is also a great deal going wrong in ordinary legislation. You cannot demand parliamentary groups to provide all of them with exactly what goes wrong in advance. Of course, we have to ask about that, but I really believe that this is the responsibility of the cabinet. That has thousands of staff to do that, and they just have to do it right. We have to check that, but we can never take over from them. I think we agree on that, but I think it is good to discuss it with each other before we, as Members of Parliament, all say that we are not doing our job at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u51	Yeah, but I think we're also failing the Bosman Commission if we don't look at ourselves. That is also why the Christian Union would very much like to give the committee the opportunity to speak in the Chamber and to comment on the report. I would like to give the following to Mr Nijboer. Laws are worked out, adopted and implemented. But I also just asked for attention to be given to the sites when there is something. I've seen that for myself. When something doesn't work out with the Tax Office, when people then report to their social attorney and when requests are being made to the Legal Aid Council to approve an addition, and when at some point there is a sudden increase, a call must ring because something is not going well. Then there's got to be a signal coming up. If that doesn't happen, something goes wrong at the sites. I saw the same thing at the CBR. I think it is important for action to be taken, even in the departments, at the moment when signals are coming out. Those are moments in time when you could adjust and change things. That is still our job. At a time when something isn't working, we need to be able to discuss it and adjust it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u52	I wanted to sit down, but now that Mrs. Van der Graaf actually says that the Chamber has been sleeping at the supplement scandal, she really goes too far...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u53	I didn't say that, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u54	I call Mrs Leijten first. Then I give the floor to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u55	Questions have been put to the House, motions have been tabled and they have not been listened to. It was known at the Ministry. That has also become clear from the POC. We're talking about majorities here. And then there's the problems in youth care, which we've all dealt with here. All the aldermen said, don't do it, it's not going well; we're not helping the youth. Yet Party of Labour and VVD voted as government parties, but also D66, ChristianUnion and SGP as constructive parties, here for a huge demolition bullet. Of course, we have to look at the operation and the question whether we are asking the right questions. But we shouldn't pretend that when a majority does something, we didn't know it could go wrong or be wrong. I think it's good to start talking about how we find out and how we listen to each other better. But it's not like it wasn't said.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u56	I find it rather difficult for Mrs Leijten to come forward in this way, knowing that the study and report of the Van Dam Committee could not include the role of the Chamber. I was very sorry to hear that. I think we should also look at ourselves. The Bosman Committee has also devoted a great many words to this. Let me be clear: the Chamber has also called about the premium affair. But I wanted to make another point. When I was investigating self-reliance, I found out that there are very soon other places where signals come out. If they haven't acted on it, they're gonna miss a turn. I would like to draw the attention of the cabinet to this, because it is in the systems that we do not have a direct view of. They are important sites, where the problems can come up.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u57	An interruption by Mrs Maatoug, GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u58	Since the House's reflection is to take place here in the end, I am going to put the question I asked Mr Sneller, which he then asked us to ask you, bearing in mind the points raised by Mr Nijboer and Mrs Leijten. We make majority decisions in the Chamber. In this democracy, your group is one of the groups that gives the majority mandate to take decisions. My specific question to my colleague is therefore: what reflection has taken place within the Christian Union Group? What questions are being asked? And how else is the Christian Union Group going to do, given the lessons that are also reflected in the colleague's plea?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u59	I just said something about it, which is that it would be okay if we asked for an execution test. My speaking time was up, so I agreed with the questions raised by Mr Sneller. There is also very often a dynamic in the Chamber that we doubt the reasons why something could not be feasible. That also has to do with a difference in how such a test was ultimately designed. I have just made it very clear that for us the perspective is always the serviceable government and that we would like to give it a place in our legal proceedings. I just said something about what beats my heart, namely that the government must also trust citizens; not only trust professionals to do their job, but also trust citizens. I come from the province of Groningen, I am now part of the parliamentary committee of inquiry in Groningen, where I cannot say much about the content of the work we are working on. But everyone knows that there too, trust in the government has fallen to a low point, but that you can also ask the other way around that question: how much confidence does the government have in the citizen? I think this is a perspective that also emerges from this report and that I think it is very important to take it with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u60	Thank you, Mrs Van der Graaf. Then I give the floor to Mrs Inge van Dijk, CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u61	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, of course, compliments and thanks to the authors. A government that should provide service instead comes with incomprehensible rules. Mr. Chairman. I just got out of school and went to work at a financial institution. At some point we decided to give pin courses. We noticed that still a lot of people would rather come to the counter to take money than walk to the ATM. We thought, "How can that be, such a simple act, and yet people would rather wait in line at a desk?" Organizing this was a good idea. The people who came to the courses were numerous and of all ages. The reasons why they didn't go to the ATM were just as numerous. Sometimes because they found pins complicated, some found change exciting or they didn't trust the new system. But also a lot of people gave it just very nice to have a chat with someone at the counter because that was one of the few contacts in the week for them. For me this was an eye-opener, because something I saw then as a progress and a service to people turned out to be much more nuanced in practice. It is also well described in the report: the average citizen does not exist. There is therefore no single magic formula to solve problems in implementation. The CDA sees many good points described in the report, emphasising three changes we need in order to really do better. An explanation: know where it pinches. I'd like to quote a quote from an associate of the Ministry of Finance. "When we talk to the implementation, we see whether it is technically possible for a political wish to be implemented, not to identify implementation problems. This means that bottlenecks experienced by the implementation do not automatically emerge." During the interviews, my fellow party member Evert-Jan Slootweg raised the question of whether the implementation organisations ever encountered cases that were never resolved, and there were. At the Tax Office, for example, there was the digital F form, a form that you have to fill out when a partner or parent dies. These examples never reached the highest summit in the Ministry, whereas these signals from the implementation are just as important if we really want to improve something. We would therefore like to see the annual report of implementing organisations record the main bottlenecks experienced by the operators, the people who have to work with them, and also what the intention is to resolve them. And then a second point. When legislation has a direct impact on large numbers of citizens, we want the WRR's capacity test to be included. Members of parliament can then check whether the proposals are really understood by citizens. In particular, when it comes to people's incomes, it seems to us to be a very useful addition. And then the third point, and I think it's the hardest. Because we feel very strongly about placing more responsibility on employees in the implementation. For some, this may be at odds with "equal monks, equal hoods." Last week there was another piece in the newspaper that penalised good behavior because rules are more important. It was about an employer who wanted to help an employee with house adjustments because he was unfortunately incurably ill. Through the Wmo all this was reimbursed, but that took too long for the employer. He quickly gave his employee a pleasant place, no cost to the community and yet a good solution for someone who needs help. And then the IRS came. He saw this as income, and the attack fell on the mat. If we continue to allow this, the human size is nothing more than a hollow mantra. Then maybe it's right by the rules, but it's not right. In recent years, we have sought to identify any inequality among the monks with a great deal of legislation and have always made exceptions to it. That makes a lot of laws complicated. That is why we believe that we need to give more control and responsibility to professionals. This also means that our professionals should be supported when they deviate from exceptions. That's nice on paper, but really requires a big change from the professionals, from their executives but also from us as politics. Do we dare to let go of each other? Do we dare to trust? Do we dare to let people grow in it, even if it is by making mistakes? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u62	Thank you. There is an interruption by Mrs Leijten, SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u63	I would like to ask Mrs Van Dijk if she thinks that if we accept the management solutions put forward by the temporary committee, the leak will be upstairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u64	No, I don't think so. That is why I have tried to point out, by taking out three points, that I think we need to do a few extra things to really involve the implementation much more strongly. We have to do this by giving them a place in such an annual report so that it actually has to be picked up, by running pilots and by giving them more responsibility, and by picking up their input and learning from it. They may be management solutions, but they are management solutions that may be needed to get the employees to work and bring them out more.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u65	I must say that the SP Group recognizes a great deal in this story and really thinks it is necessary. Lower responsibilities, take three days but then solve the problem and don't tick off that you've gone through the process and it's not solved, but at least you've reached your output. Is there not a need for a clear vision for this, which is still lacking? Or does the CDA think it'll land if we start working on it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u66	I think there is no clear vision, but I think we should also get to work on it. Maybe it could be parallel. Let's just try things out and learn. Based on what we learn, we can make sure that there is a good vision, and then we can go wider. So I think we should do both.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u67	Yeah, I guess so. I'm glad. We all want to help in Groningen and help the supplement families, and yet we can't. It's stuck in systems. The person who has to do it is in trouble, but the person who needs the help or the compensation is also in trouble. We must, of course, bring out what goes wrong so that we can prevent it in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u68	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Strolenberg, VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u69	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Through the President, I wish the Minister of the Interior well. Thank you from the VVD Group for the valuable report we have received from the Bosman Committee. It took us a while to talk about it, but now is the time. It is certainly a valuable report, which is going to help us improve the quality of service within the government. This quality also determines confidence in the Dutch government. The VVD Group believes that this is important. In my election campaign, I expressed the motto that I want to work to restore confidence in the government by connecting people, preferably in a digital way. This report and the recommendations really matter. That is necessary, because everyone in the Netherlands gets in touch with an execution organisation at some point or another. It is a good thing that extensive research has been done, because as a resident you just expect things to be carried out properly. Fortunately, I note and the committee also notes that the vast majority of implementation and implementation organisations are doing well. But unfortunately things are going horribly wrong too. In any case, this report sends out a clear signal and also holds a mirror in front of us. All the recommendations in the report Clamp between desk and policy are equally valuable and provide improvement work for departments, implementation organisations and also explicitly for the Chamber itself, as previous speakers have said. The Netherlands also deserves a better execution. That certainly starts with ourselves. As a Lower House, we have an important responsibility. The ambitions in it have not been realised from today to tomorrow. Every day people get in trouble, it's a day too much. The recommendations contained therein will therefore also need to be speeded up. One important point I would like to make is that we must also be careful about too strict and too restrictive laws and regulations. That is what we say to ourselves, but also, of course, to the departments that are preparing. It concerns some of the protocols and working methods set up by the organisations themselves. Ministers should ensure that a decomplexity impact is made, that there is room for tailor-made work and more decision-making space for the implementation professional behind the desk. Mrs Van Dijk just said the same thing. In order to guarantee the human dimension, I want unclear and legal language in government communication to turn into accessible communication. I would like to ask the Minister, for example, how she intends to deal with such a specific recommendation in practice. This is, of course, about a lot of implementing organisations. For the VVD it is not enough to send only a check-in list in the country and to fill in in that way. That's not enough. We would like to know how public services are being improved proactively. In order to guarantee the human size, an in- and execution test will be provided. That's the first step. We will have to keep a close eye on this, because legislation from The Hague must be enforceable. There will also need to be a better understanding of the opportunities and opportunities of the systems and, in particular, of ICT. Work needs to be done on a do-it-yourself test. In the main letters that we are about to receive from the cabinet on major legislative proposals, I would like to see a fixed chapter on how implementation and feasibility are addressed. At the same time, I would like to ask the Minister to what extent what can be done to reduce or simplify the rules can be taken into account. Finally. The TCU has noted that some of its conclusions and recommendations have also been presented in previous parliamentary investigations, but they have not led to change. I want the recommendations in the report to be taken up vigorously. That's important. The VVD endorses the recommendations and welcomes the fact that the previous cabinet has started work on implementation through a programme. But TCU's recommendations now come back fragmentedly in several reports and programs, thus losing the overview. I think it is important that all the recommendations contained in it are taken into account and that no one should be overlooked. To achieve this, I would ask the Minister to review annually and send an annual cabinet-wide letter indicating the state of play with regard to the TCU recommendations. I am considering tabling a motion on this matter in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u70	You're at the end of your speech. Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Leijten, SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u71	Mr. Chairman. I recognize a lot of what the SP will bring in at the VVD. I'll also try to make an analysis of how I think we got here. But that's not what my question is about. We are talking about "between desk and policy," but it must also be about "word and deed." There is actually a very nice and very concrete plan in terms of transparency and the archive function of the government. 800 million have been released, with the will to make it structural after 2026. All at your service. At the same time, we know that this same government is suing journalists who have a Wob request about apps from Hugo de Jonge to Sywert van Lienden. How can you bring that one good thing to that other act? How does the VVD view this?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u72	In Rotterdam they would say: not words, but deeds. Of course, that's important. That's why we're here. We must also keep ourselves on the alert. You mentioned the Archive Act and a round table we requested together. I think that's a good example of how we should do it more often. In my view, this is also a result of one of the recommendations in the report: 'enter into contact with'. This is what I'm saying to you quite honestly. I had read the story about the Archive Act and thought: well, an improvement, some sort of 2.0 version. Then we had the round table conversation and I still have a little bit of it to catch up on. The image changed a bit after the round table conversation. Perhaps it is good if this happens more often and we do a reality check and don't record everything exactly of the text and also go into the matter ourselves. I must also say that it makes the work more enjoyable, but not easier. It's coming from somewhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u73	That certainly does, because that means that we in the Chamber have a product that we need to improve, when we really want a better law to come from the departments. I enjoyed working there, by the way. Then there's the fact that experience is a part of it. Then you know when to prick to possibly change a bill or maybe send it back with each other. But I asked another question. There's also something like the open government. That was presented last year. That's a really good plan. I've been reading it yesterday. I thought, well, great. But at the same time, it says in the paper that they still have to go to court to get their rights in terms of transparency through the Wob. We in the Chamber should say that the difference between word and deed is too great, and we do not want that anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u74	No, we don't need that anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u75	This is what we said before the summer. Then we had a debate on the information position of the Chamber. Then the whole Chamber said: we do not want the ministries to go to trial about whether or not to deal with Wob requests. At that time, Mrs Ollongren, then the Home Secretary, promised to do so. Two weeks later, VWS appealed anyway. Do you think we should now adopt a motion to reassign the government? Or do you see any other means?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u76	No, I think a restraining order might be very far-reaching. I don't think we should want that. I think we should be critical of what is being said. I think we should certainly also ask directors if they say anything and do something else. I believe that this is also one of the tasks we have here: the monitoring task, the proper checking.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u77	In the preparation of this debate, I remembered Prime Minister Rutte who said: I have radical ideas for a new governance culture. Well, that's not exactly the same as this, but how you deal with implementing organisations is close to it. I thought that was a hollow story back then. I was finished at Nieuwsuur. It's been almost a year. I was wondering if the VVD now has more substantive ideas about this and has given more design to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u78	I'm talking about the report here. The report contains a lot of recommendations. I also think doing another shovel on top of that might be asking about it. I think that what is now under way is ambitious enough. Let me add a few points. I do say: let us at least look in the mirror ourselves and do a number of things ourselves. A better Netherlands also starts with yourself. For example, I read something about a light execution key. In the beginning, I also wondered what that means. Then I thought very simply that we don't have to make it complicated and radical. Maybe it's just about using the common sense, picking up the phone and calling such an executive. Then you can say: I have this idea and how does that look to you? That's not a radical idea. I'll admit that right away. But it's something simple that we can do today. So I am not going to add any radical ideas to the recommendations in the report. I think they're challenging enough already.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u79	When politicians themselves say that ideas are radical, they usually hide that they want to do less. I do not therefore call on Mr Strolenberg to do so. But often there is an ideological charge to the question of why measures are bad. In social security, this is very suspicious: they are all profiteers. I still see Halbe Zijlstra filling out welfare workers. At the moment, of course, it is also about asylum. Everyone wants to be generous to Ukraine, but those others are lucky seekers and must leave quickly. It has an impact on people's lives. Is the VVD willing to look at that perspective? Do you assume distrust, or do you assume trust in people, even if they depend on the government? Is the VVD willing to look at that, as well as themselves?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u80	Sure, sure. Let me keep it to myself. I always have a lot of faith in people. Sometimes it gets hurt, too. Of course, that'll be a little less. But I'm an optimist. I also think it is important for the government to adopt that attitude. I think that is what this report and its recommendations are breathing. Maybe we'll hear the same thing from the rulers. But I am very much in favour of giving the performance professional space to make some choices myself. So that doesn't mean closing everything and assuming that everything is okay. I think it's important to just use peasant understanding and give confidence.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u81	And can that farmer's understanding cost a fortune?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u82	That doesn't necessarily cost more money. At least the call I make to check with the Election Board if I'm gonna suggest something doesn't take much extra effort.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u83	But can the farmer's understanding of the person who is performing at the IND, the UWV or the Tax Administration take some extra costs to give the professional space, as stated in the report?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u84	Yeah, 'cause I think that's gonna earn itself back, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u85	So it's only supposed to cost something if it gets anything?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u86	That is very economical. I come from the energy world myself. We also had a customer contact center there. I listened in on a regular basis. We had a grade called "the first time right." That was kind of a percentage of the number of calls you could handle at once. In the end, this saves a lot of implementation costs. If you cannot help the person on the phone with a question at once, but have to send it to the next window, then that will cost a lot more money on balance. If we put someone with good farmers' sense behind that phone who is just thinking about how he can solve a resident's problem to the fullest and get the room for it, because that is the art, that is actually double profit.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u87	I am asking for this because there is a reference to the report and its recommendations, including from me. Thank you to the colleagues who are here as well. However, I was shocked by the analysis. I am afraid, for example, of the passage in which it is said that the cabinet lacks a philosophy of direction for the government as a whole. I'm terrified when I read the analysis of new public management. Exactly that efficiency thinking has led to digitalisation being combined with saving money. The result is that there is no counter where you can get stuck. It scares me. I specifically ask the colleague of the VVD, because the VVD is first of all the largest party congratulations and because the VVD has been in power for some time now. The VVD is part of that lack of control philosophy. In the past, the VVD had a steering philosophy in which the government had to be as small as possible. This may have contributed to the very problematic analysis that we are reading again in this report. My question to the colleague is therefore: what is the current philosophy of steering the government as a whole of the VVD? And can it only go hand in hand with efficiency, or can it sometimes go hand in hand with more resources to help people?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u88	I think the coalition agreement says 600 million. Mr Sneller also referred to this. That's what we're going to invest in those implementation organisations. I know we once had the slogan of a small, capable government. I am in favour of this in itself, but I cannot say that the government is very small at the moment, or is getting smaller. I see precisely that with the social challenges that exist, we are basically getting a much larger government.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u89	Thank you, Mr. Strolenberg. Then I give the floor to Mrs Maatoug, GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u90	Mr. Chairman. Stand here. It's in debates. There are votes every week. Why does politics matter? Because we're not just exchanging thoughts, we're also making decisions. Those are not just decisions, they are decisions that apply to the whole country. The reason that politics matters is that we do things and do things. The words we say here lead to actions that mean something in people's lives. Politics is execution. The fact that we are having these talks and pretending that there is a total division between what is political, policy and implementation is already a great deal of the problem for the people who are looking at the debates we have, the people who are touching it and the people who need our government most. I must say that I was not really looking forward to this debate and the more I went into it, the less I looked forward to it. I have great compliments for the committee's colleagues and the patience with which you have written everything down properly. I looked at the literature list and I thought: what was there and what is there a lot. You've written it in a proper tone. To be honest with you, I feel a very great inconvenience. I feel an inconvenience, because it feels a little like someone's gonna make their whole life better, but the context leaves exactly the same. I am not talking specifically about colleagues but about the whole thing; I will make it a little more precise. You're all saying "but this time things are really different." But if you don't change the context, if you don't change the underlying mechanisms, then I'm afraid this is another report in the drawer like the many reports I've already referred to the report of the Vonhoff Committee or the multiple reports, and that the same fate also affects this report. I do not wish that on this committee. That is why I asked my colleagues from D66, the Christian Union and also the VVD, specifically of coalition groups. Politics is about decisions. If we say together 'we underline the full analysis'......................................................................................................................................................................................................... I share the analysis of the SP and PvdA colleagues that we should look at those who have sought that majority together. That is why I am asking for reflection, because I would be so sorry if we were to say here again today with good words: excellent work done, what a pleasure that you were there, we are all taking it over, there is a motion and we are going to continue with the order of the day. That makes me cynical. I therefore hope that at the end of the debate... That is actually the same question I asked Mr Sneller, and we asked ourselves this question in GroenLinks: what else are we going to do, how are we going to do our job? But let's also be very sharp and honest about that analysis. Mr Donner has once said: you do not want to know how laws are made. I think we need to know better and better. I must honestly say that I can also be a little frustrated about the arrogance we have and the amount of time we take for political decision-making. When we look at the time we have in the democratic process, I see a political decision-making that only takes more, more, more time at the expense of implementation, at the expense of thought, at the expense of looking at consequences, at the expense of getting back your signals. We see an official summit that is working a lot on us, because, oh, no, is there still a majority? My question in this debate: is this going to be a debate, is this report going to be a different report than all the reports before it? 'Cause those were good reports, too. My question to the cabinet I'm going to do it a little bit faster now, first of all: does the cabinet have an overview of the laws in which there is a wrong human image? So the gay economist that Mr Tjeenk Willink is also talking about, like in the case of surcharges like that is very nice in the ibo report, which is based on the reasoning citizen? Do we also have an overview of the laws in which the human image is wrong and is based on mistrust or merely on an incentive? My last question is: do we have a complete overview of all those things that have been promised about what we were going to do differently; not what we said, but what we were going to do differently? I'm curious, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u91	Thank you, Mrs Maatoug. Then I give the floor to Mr Nijboer, PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u92	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, thank you to the committee for the good work, for the good interrogations, of which I have seen some, and for the recommendations. It's a good thing we're finally discussing this as a room today. Mr. Chairman. In addition to the committee's recommendations, I would like to quote two people who have been arguing for years for a different organisation of the government. One is Mr Kuiper as chairman of the Committee of Inquiry in the First Chamber, who has done a very blessed job on the independence of public bodies. I ask the cabinet how the reaction it gives now relates to the reaction given at that time to that report. Quite a few notes have been cracked about New Public Management thinking, the introduction of market thinking in government agencies and the damage that that can cause. The other, well known to all of us, is Herman Tjeenk Willink, who for a long time, also for Kuiper, but also much more recent, also in the later formations, every time asked and unsolicited of his heart did not make a murder pit and actually put this theme on the agenda every time. Do we not neglect the implementation too much, do we as a government not think too much business and do we not have much to think about from the public service? I ask the cabinet to respond to these two reports and insights in relation to the report of the Bosman Committee. Mr. Chairman. I think it's important that you have what you can expect from each other. I expect the cabinet, which always makes many legislative proposals every year, that these laws are sound, that they are well executed, that they can be put in place when you expect them to be introduced and that they are done properly. Then it is up to the Chamber as co-legislator to see what else can be done and to check if it eventually fails. I do not think it always goes wrong, because a lot of signals do come to the Chamber and very often cases are raised, with every law, sometimes too often. The Bosman Committee points out such incidents, but you can also say that these are signs that something is going wrong and that the Members of Parliament are raising them. Because when is it an incident and when are wrongs rightly raised? I also expect the Chamber to hold ideological debates and to make time for them. I also expect compromises from the Chamber, certainly from a majority of the Chamber. This does not always make legislation more beautiful, because ideology sometimes clashes. If everything is explained in terms of "execution is difficult," it is sometimes a resultant of all the functions that the Chamber has and which are also healthy. I have nothing against execution keys, do-it-yourself tests, control buttons or rapporteurs. I'm not gonna stand up to that either. Mr Van der Staaij has also been rapporteur, but I do not want the Chamber to sit down for two or three days in the week as rapporteur and take on a kind of half-official role that departments have. I'm not in favour of that. I don't think that's healthy either. I expect a response from the cabinet. What does it see as its role and what is the role of the Chamber? You better be clear about that instead of talking a little bit past each other. Mr. Chairman. A specific point is the batter-free foot. Fortunately, we have the Minister in our midst who knows that too, but that has taken years. The Bosman Committee also mentioned this. It's been held by the Chamber for years. How does the Cabinet look back on that? I still worry about that every day. Is that settled properly now? I know the answer to that. Mrs Leijten shakes no, but I ask the question nicely. That's the minimum income you need to run errands for your kids. We have regulated this by law, but the government still does not comply with it after all these years. If that kind of thing isn't settled, we can talk here as Brugman, but then trust in the government won't come back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u93	Thank you, Mr. Nijboer. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Leijten, SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u94	Mr. Chairman. Thank you very much for the many good work done by the Committee of Inquiry, the Temporary Committee of Implementing Organisations. When it began, we knew that it would lead us to have a government that sees its own inhabitants as enemies and that the people who do the execution cannot do their work, feel orphaned, because this government begets has been going on for years. It has been pointed out for years. According to the SP Group, it originates from abolishing the welfare state. Kok said: the welfare state is too expensive; we need to go to a participatory society, the self-reliant person. Under Balkenende that has gone a little further with standards and values. And under the Ruttedoctrine, it's actually become the punishing government. 'Cause you're not gonna take advantage, are you? Often enough, even before we had the surcharge scandal over the water, I said in debates: the Tax Administration was only as strict on tax-evasive oligarchs and companies as on people who make a mistake with surcharges. I am sure the Minister for Poverty will recognize that, because when we were on the committee together, we noticed that as well. And then this report is there and then I look at the recommendations and then I think: these are all fine proposals, except for an execution test on motion. I really think that's a limitation of our work. If we adopt a motion and say 'best government, get on with it', it must not be able to be cheated away by an execution test that can also be used politically. And it's being used politically. I think that is different in the case of a legislative amendment, because you can weigh: can this be done or not? Then you really change a law. A government can dismiss a motion and name it all. If we make these recommendations, we don't have the leak upstairs. We need a government that doesn't see people as a customer or a number that is accessible, where you can walk in, who is close to the people and where people are sitting behind the desk, sitting on the phone or sitting behind the computer that solves problems and that aren't settled on targets, KPIs or whatever that is called, or on processes. We need to get rid of this new public management thinking. That is what the committee says, but at the same time the recommendations are management tools. The abolition of the welfare state is ideological and politically motivated. Man is seen as an individual. There's no such thing as a society. You don't have to organize that. The government has no role to play in this. If things go well with the rich, then everyone's fine. We know that's not true, but that's the ideology. The third point is that the government must be as small as possible. But what does that mean? That means we've closed down the nursing homes. When that happened, it was called "phase-out of care packages 1, 2 and 3." The caregivers knew exactly what it said, namely that the nursing homes would close, but we had it completely hidden. And now we're looking at lonely elderly people and a huge housing shortage. We haven't improved it. Has there ever been an evaluation of whether this has resulted in the amount it would save? No, I'm not. The train's just gonna run. Has the way we look at people and how we manage society changed? The Tax Administration made the offer itself: we can look at fraud at surcharges. They had made a business case, because then they got a little less cuts imposed by the government. They went to get those KPIs, and we know with what devastating effect. Is that gone now? During our investigation in the interrogation room, in which everyone said that there should be a change and that the human size should come back, we found out that the Director of Fees was still sending in a business case of austerity that was brought in by fraud investigation. If we decorate the government like this, if we don't analyze it and we don't recognize it, then these management solutions, which I would like to embrace because there are very good things in it, aren't going to work. I have two questions. I've seen your signal, Mr. Chairman. Can the Minister or the Secretary of State ensure that the illegal act, which is currently happening to people who have been crushed by the Tax Office, stops immediately? For example, they do not get the information on why they are blacklisted. That's really weird! Those letters are totally bizarre. Can the government tell us how much it has spent this year and last year on our country's attorney in procedures to postpone the Wob requests and to sue against people? 'Cause that's just gonna happen. Two weeks ago, a known victim of the surcharge scandal was in court because the IRS didn't pay out and didn't acknowledge him. He is a recognized victim but also a partner; it is a complicated story. Now he's threatening to go back into debt and lose his house. That's impossible, isn't it? Something has to happen between words and deeds.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u95	Thank you very much, Mrs Leijten. Then I'll give it... Oh, there's been an interruption by Mrs. Van der Graaf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u96	Mrs Leijten ran away very quickly, but I would very much like to ask how Mrs Leijten reflects on the recommendations and conclusions of the Bosman Committee. It says that the House of Representatives also has a blind spot for execution.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u97	I have already said in interruptions that "the House of Representatives" does not exist. Everything that goes wrong in the implementation, with the Youth Act or the surcharges, was already known. This has already been warned, and this has also been exchanged in debates, but a political majority has pushed it through for economic reasons, political reasons and human perceptions. If that doesn't change, we're not gonna change it either. In total, it is true, but as far as the difference in the Chamber is concerned, it does not add up. That's my answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u98	Why does Mrs Leijten find it so difficult to look in the mirror as a room?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u99	We had a debate here two weeks ago on the forms of behaviour. At that time, I used it to show that as a Chamber, as an institution, we also have tasks and that we need to use our instruments. I am also very often concerned about whether we do so together. We are contributing to this. Mrs Van der Graaf is doing this by sitting in a parliamentary inquiry, and I am now, for example, adopting a motion for a resolution on the better position of the Chamber vis-à-vis the government when it comes to knowing what information we should have. We'll work it out. We have the Van der Staaij Committee, such a hearing on the Archive Act, whistleblowers... I then try to bring the sound and arguments that are needed to the Chamber, and I hope that they will be listened to. At the moment, I can see that the experience I have, which makes me know when to shoot sharp, is absolutely helpful and effective. Maybe there's more room to listen. But one of the things that "the Chamber" should reflect on, but where I really find that a task for some parties, perhaps is the lack of long-term experience.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u100	I find it really very difficult to hear Mrs Leijten speak like that, because I know her as a Member of Parliament who does her work with integrity. But I think that with the report that the Bosman Committee has written here, you cannot ignore the role of the Chamber. That requires all groups to look at themselves. Mrs Maatoug asked me: what is the Christian Union doing? Has the Christian Union considered this? My question is then: has the SP thought about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u101	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u102	I find it really incomprehensible that you are so easily ignoring the role of the Chamber. Last year you voted against a motion in which the Chamber showed self-reflection. This was about the results of the Van Dam report on the premium affair. In this we recognised as Chamber and said that the Chamber has also been co-responsible for adopting harsh laws which had too little regard for what it meant to people in individual situations. I find it really painful to hear Mrs Leijten speak in this way and so easily hear her ignore the role played by the Chamber, the Chamber as a whole. But I also ask: how does the SP reflect on this?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u103	I've reflected in this debate. I have said that I think that too little or not is being listened to, that people are being framed away quickly. Are you critical of the corona policy? Hup: "That's a wappie. We don't have to listen to that anymore." If you're criticizing neoliberal policy, something I've done with the SP over the past 15 years, since I've been in the House of Representatives, you're gonna be thrown away. That would be a swear word. There is no political-ideological debate. That is what we are doing. I'm really throwing off the idea that "the Chamber" is entirely responsible for the supplemental scandal. There was indeed the possibility of voting in favour of the Siderius motion, but only 13 Members did so. Then it is true that I have also said that 'the Chamber' is going to let it go, but I do not feel appealed to by it. We now know, for example, Mrs Van der Graaf, that a huge new bureaucracy, and indeed a genuine democratic deficit, is going to come towards the municipalities when the Environment Act enters into force. We're being warned on all sides. Are we gonna change that? I don't think so, because a political balance has been made. It's on a political train, and we can't get it off the table anymore. Are we still trying to do that and are we trying to form majorities here? Are we trying to bring people in with arguments? Yes, of course, because that is our political work. We always do. Let me just say one more thing. When the cabinet resigned, I found one thing very special. I found it very sad that the cabinet resigned because of the surcharge scandal, because I would have preferred that the surcharge scandal had not happened. But one of the things that was in the letter of resignation was: "We are going to write down signals that are coming in to the public service today and we are also making sure that the minister, the ruler, reads that." I actually thought that was a very big compliment. There were times when you knocked on something in individual situations and it was said "we don't respond to individual cases," while they stood for a much bigger problem. I hope that politics is finally over. We're all there. I'll keep checking. That's how I see the mirror. I can't do it any other way.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u104	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u105	Last but not least. I conclude that the Bosman Committee makes it very clear that things are really going wrong in the triangle of Chambers, departments and implementation organisations. Mrs. Leijten wants to blame everyone and everything. She just doesn't want to look at the role and responsibility of the Chamber in that. I'm sorry about that. I had a slight hope that the SP would have gone a little further in this debate with the Bosman Committee's report.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u106	Finally, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u107	This is a fine piece of framing and not listening, I'd like to say. I gave a very clear answer to the question of how we see it. I hope that there will be more ombudsmen for political companies, with ideological debates. We're trying to do that, too. We are being put away in a way. A motion is tabled to the effect that: "How can people have to pay back €150,000 in child care payments? Shouldn't we even investigate that?" Nearly 140 MPs vote against it. Yeah, then the room fails. Then democracy fails. It's an assignment to myself, to the House of Representatives, to the SP and to different parties to see how you change that democratically. But saying I'm standing here without reflection, I think I'm really inadequate. I said that I am pleased with the Bosman Committee's report and that I am taking over everything except that motion and the execution test. I just miss the deeper analysis of exactly what kind of government we want. What else do you want?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u108	That's what you said. Thank you very much, Mrs Leijten. Finally, we will go to Mr Van der Staaij, SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u109	Madam President. Clamp between desk and policy. The Bosman Committee, the Temporary Committee on Implementing Organisations, has made a huge contribution to making it clear where it goes wrong, what goes wrong, what can be done better and how it can be done better. I would like to thank all the Members who have contributed to this very much today. The human dimension was also a central theme in the committee's report. That report means homework for Chamber and Government. Fortunately, today we can say that we are not starting to debate and think about how we can proceed with that. We have the report of the working group on strengthening functions of the Second Chamber: more than the sum of the parts. That has already been mentioned here. That's just been discussed. We have benefited from the analysis of this committee and other reports that were already there in all kinds of ways as a Chamber. We are shocked at the fact that this is what the committee is calling here, but this is also apparent in other studies, and many points have already been mentioned several times and have been mentioned in reports. So that is quite a matter of urgency and urgency: how do we ensure that we do not say "beautiful report" and proceed to the order of the day? When it comes to the Chamber's working group, strengthening functions, we have said the following of the legislative, controlling and grass-roots role. What we need to do is to look very closely at how we have drivers and ambassadors in the Chamber itself, how we ensure that we keep our finger on the pulse and not think that it is okay with a few actions. It's a very persistent problem. It takes a long breath and constantly looks: "Where are we? What's going well? What could be better?" So it's homework on the side of the cabinet. I must say that, just in the run-up to this debate, I have looked again at what has been done and what has been set in motion by the cabinet. Frankly, that is a lot: a government-wide working agenda for public services and a lot of actions in all kinds of areas. I have also noticed in contacts with officials and others that many people are aware of it to make further improvements. That's hopeful. At the same time, I also got a bit of a feeling of: how do we keep an eye on cohesion, also from the cabinet side? We have another program Work on Implementation at SZW. We are also at the table with Home Affairs, where Justice needs to look at strengthening legislation. So how does the cabinet guard the direction, the coherence, in a good interaction with Parliament in order to actually move forward on all those important points, which we actually have quite well on our minds? So we would also like to draw attention to the importance of focusing and effectiveness of the work agenda before implementation: not a tick-off list, but always a critical test of whether it actually continues to contribute to the intended goal. At the end of my contribution I would like to return to the human dimension as a goal. That is also what we want in the functioning of the government: a modest, effective and serviceable government. We have to conclude with each other that as a Chamber we often wanted too much and too hasty and that the implementation has often suffered. But that human dimension is also part of the solution for me as to how we proceed: not only working groups, action lines, etc., because in conversation with the departments, in discussions within the Chambers and in discussions with all kinds of bodies such as the Ombudsman and the Court of Auditors, we will also have to talk about what is going well and what can be done better. Because sometimes we drown among the paper mountains that are out there, so that the distress signals that are being transmitted are simply not heard enough. In doing so, it can help to meet each other in a humane way and to see how legislation and policies work out in practice. Mr President, that was a cry of hearts.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u110	Thank you. There is an interruption by Mrs Maatoug, GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u111	Like Mrs Leijten, Mr Van der Staaij is an experienced colleague, so I hope to draw on that experience. We see a huge fragmentation in the Chamber, also in the number of parties needed to form a coalition. This means that the construction of a consensus on the cabinet side is complex. My question to my colleague, Mr Van der Staaij, is whether he has ever experienced that in the Chamber itself, in the debate, a new decision is taken together on what happens in legislation. Do you have that experience?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u112	I have the experience that, when a subject is raised that is said to be attractive to deal with... Let us honestly note that this is a dilemma: why is legislation sometimes so complex? Because, if she is simple, we find it unfair to certain people or certain groups. Then someone says: we understand this measure, but could we not be able to meet that group again by making an exception? Someone else says yes, but I also see an exception. Then let's get back to work. So this is happening from the point of view of justice. In the end, we make it very complex for implementation with good intentions. What do I think is a good practice? This morning, for example, we had a debate on the broad outlines of changes in personal and family law. Mrs Maatoug spoke of 'fragmentation', but I was thinking this morning: there are only five parties present in such an important debate, which also has a lot of implementation consequences. So there is also quite a bit of homework for ourselves: can we sometimes make sure with more combinations and also with more cooperation that we stay well on all the important issues that affect the feasibility? What did I like about that debate? When Members of Parliament came up with concrete suggestions, it was said: we are going to take a good look at them; we are going to think about them carefully and we will come up with a reaction in three or four months' time. So a clear deadline, but also take the time to test that feasibility. I am pleased to note that Members of Parliament will then allow that space and not say: no, I am now going to table a motion, because this has to be done tomorrow. Then let us be modest, because we ourselves do not know exactly what all our good plans sometimes have consequences in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u113	Modesty is a skill that I think we can all have a little stronger. I find it interesting that this answer is about the political context in which decision-making takes place. That's what we read in the report. It is therefore precisely the mechanism outlined by my colleague: that wish, that wish, and that wish, and then we add it in a side package, and that is the exception. For example, I found the report of the Court of Auditors on tax regulations very striking. There were all exceptions, a whole laundry list: they are evaluated, they do not... They all have to stand, because they are political desires that were necessary to achieve majorities. I have already asked several colleagues about this today. I am certainly curious to hear the answer from Mr Van der Staaij, an experienced colleague. How do you look at this from the SGP? And what role have you perhaps played in the past?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u114	Everyone can have ease and trouble with their own implementation points in politics. You are asking for a concrete reflection. As a SGP, we tend to be reluctant to set up new organisations and bodies. We would prefer to look primarily at whether it could not be better with existing bodies. Often that is beneficial and I also support it, but sometimes you sometimes think analyzing: well, maybe it would have been good to create a separate organisation in that case, for example to improve the knowledge infrastructure. I would just like to say that we all have our examples of how our party political or ideological principles can sometimes be helpful and sometimes get a little in the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u115	Mrs Maatoug, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u116	Yes, finally, Mr. Chairman. That's what I was gonna say. The question I have is, how else are we gonna do it? Because if we keep doing what we did, we'll get what we got. And the underlying mechanisms that the colleague also outlines are still there. Also with the fine report by my fellow Members and with other reports that have been published, there seems to be a very heavy force, or there are reasons why there is a certain outcome as a sum of what is decided by the various groups. My last question is, why is it different this time?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u117	I do not believe that we are going to change the world by preaching the revolution, but we can make perseverance of small steps to improve. I'm quite optimistic about that. Quite specifically, we sometimes have too little insight into what legislation does to people in practice. Then we can actually say in the various Chambers already: we are not going to be satisfied with an evaluation of this law by scientists, then we are going to proceed to the order of the day, but we are really going to organise a round table in which we are really going to listen to people and ask them if they recognise themselves in the evaluation of the law. We're also talking to implementing agencies. These are all concrete examples of how we can do things differently tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u118	Thank you, Mr. Van der Staaij. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. The directors have indicated that they need about twenty minutes to prepare themselves. I shall suspend the sitting until approximately 4.10 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u119	The next item is the follow-up to the debate on the report by the Temporary Committee on Implementing Agencies. I shall be the first to give the floor to the Minister for Poverty Policy, Participation and Pensions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u120	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, first of all, to the members of the Bosman committee. Some Members still have to come, and I hope that this thanks will also be passed on to the Members who are not present. The report has been thoroughly addressed and very clear recommendations have been made, addressing all of us. That is also at the heart of the debate we are having today. So thank you again for that. Mr. Chairman. Thank you for the debate we are having here with the Chamber. It emphasizes once again that implementation is a joint responsibility of the Cabinet and the Chamber. The Chamber is also a co-legislator and thus has an important role to play in the drafting of legislation, but of course it is also the auditor and the one who may address the cabinet when things do not go as we intended. Mr. Chairman. Before I go into the specific questions of Members, I would like to say a few more introductory words about what we are now dealing with and what the cabinet is doing. I think this will shed some light on what we're doing. I hope that will speed up the answer to the questions that have been asked. Mr. Chairman. At the heart of today's debate, but also of the Bosman Committee's report and of other reports, Mr Van der Staaij has also taken up a number of issues relating to the relationship between the cabinet and the parliament, namely the restoration of confidence, an incredibly important issue. It is also an incredibly difficult task. It's not like you push a button and then have faith. It's a process you all have to commit to. This process and this task has also been explicitly included in the coalition agreement. Mr. Chairman. When I look at my own policy area, it is an important and central issue in, for example, participation and poverty reduction. The government's actions sometimes put people in debt. These are issues that we, as directors and trade ministers, will all have to analyse in our own policy area, and, of course, we will have to address. Mr. Chairman. I stand here as a coordinating director for the Work on Implementation programme. This clearly goes wider than just the Ministry of SZW. It's really affecting the whole government. I'm just saying that for the sake of clarity about the position I'm in here. If we are going to do it together and work together, my belief is that we can take steps towards restoring confidence. In the end, the human measure is about 'I felt that Mr Van der Staaij did make it nicely formulated 'that is to say 'human touch'. "Messaging people" sometimes happens physically on the one hand at a desk. But it's also about being able to think from the people we do it for, for society, and what they can expect from us. We must therefore be clear about what we can deliver. Sometimes it is also about making the expectations clear again and again. The TCU has a strong eye for that interplay. Recommendations are made on this in several areas. If we want to achieve that requested change, I think that as a government we need to proceed in a different way. Then, for example, when it comes to making policies, it is about starting from realism and paying attention to what is actually happening in practice. You can't just see people as rational, calculating, overlooking citizens who know all laws and regulations flawlessly by heart. It's also about another human image, let's call it: a richer human image, and we're also looking at what we can expect from people. Mr Van Baarle and Mr Nijboer asked about the underlying human image or the underlying vision. Mr Nijboer even mentioned two great scholars, I say. Firstly, Mr Kuiper, known to me as a senator for the Christian Union, who has also carried out a parliamentary inquiry into independence, privatisation and what has happened to our services since the 1980s. He also wrote a report on this, entitled Disconnection. But also, secondly, Mr Tjeenk Willink, who I don't know how many books have already been published in this field and who have given very valuable insights, especially in Bigger thinking. If I then zoom out what we actually see in the course of time and what the analysis is from these reports, which have already been prepared a little earlier, it is in my opinion that there is a hint that public services are public, and that we have often come to consider the government far too much corporate. That was, of course, a bigger movement in the 1980s. At that time it was not only in the Netherlands but also in other countries. We have started to see the government more and more as a government that has customers, who are served and how you can do it efficiently. What does that mean for which tasks you as a government still have to do yourself and which one doesn't? There are political discussions underneath that, and I will give that to Mrs Leijten immediately. Much of the choices made here are also based on political conviction or political weighting. That is why this debate has to take place here, because we are doing it together here; not only as a cabinet that is working on something, but also when it is properly corrected by a Chamber that also thinks about how to proceed with that service. My belief is that we have now started to make that change, that we no longer think in people who are seen as customers or a government that just needs to achieve more efficiency. The shift to a government that is really thinking about what that public service means. What are the values and what does that mean for how you deal with each other, especially how you want to be there for society? But is this something we just realized? No, I'm gonna say right away. Work on implementation is not for nothing a ten-year programme. That's not because I think all of this can be looked at quietly, but because this has to do with a cover-up, partly a cultural change, which you have to make again within organizations, how we work with each other. Yeah, and maybe in politics, just in all places. But I do believe that what we are doing now is actually in place at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u121	I can follow the minister. I think I agree with her to a great extent, and yet I am concerned, because there is a ten-year programme. At the same time, last night, I received calls from people who say: I can lose my house, because I can't get through it with that execution organisation Increases. I just can't give them any advice where they can go. Passing on to the Secretary of State doesn't help, then you don't get any further, so word and deed are still so far apart. Do we have a solution for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u122	Mr. Chairman. I find the whole specific case complicated. I think it is also best to bring that up with the Minister of Trade or, in this case, the Secretary of State. But more zooming out, does this mean that we are doing everything exactly as we hope it will work? No, that takes time, I say. There are also really some things that need to be improved. In fact, I think that even if Work on Implementation is completed, if we get somewhere there will still be issues: how does the government function and how does that service work? What can the citizen expect from that government? How can it in some cases, if this is the case, achieve its right? I believe that Mr Nijboer mentioned the point of the batter-free foot. I am quite aware of this, because as a Member of Parliament I have spent a lot of time and energy on it for many years and have had political debates on it. Let me say one thing: there are really steps taken. There's been a record of seizures. The batterless foot is now better established. We know better about each other who's already impounded at what point. The big problem was that there was no sight, which meant that no one really knew whether the unwound foot was being met. For this, systems are also brought together. But I will very soon send a letter to the Chamber in which I state where it should be better. If you take one step, you're not done with that. The cabinet too would at some point get it very quiet, just like your Chamber. You'll always have to work on improvement, even things you run into. That's not always on purpose. It's often things that come up in practice, which you're gonna react to.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u123	I also fully agree with the Minister: a government close by, which no longer has that enemy image, which is easier to reach, which is perhaps more agile and may apply a little more customization. Of course things go wrong. Above all, it is also a question of resolving the problem. Let me give you an example, and the Minister says: I cannot go into that; I refer you to that. That's not what the Minister means, because I hold the Minister high. In the past, for example, the Minister was a member of the parliament involved in the establishment of the Stella team. That was a team within the IRS that could solve people's big problems. That's still there, but I can't call them, when I'd really like to say to a mother or someone running into them: call those people. I can't judge what's going on either. I have no influence on those trials either. I think that's wise, too. The Minister is thinking about this and says he wants to work on the implementation and set up another government. Could the Minister please write down what that's gonna look like? I think that's desirable.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u124	I try Mrs Leijten's question as well...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u125	Could you clarify the question, Mrs Leijten?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u126	Let me interpret the question as: what else will the government do? That seems to me to be the question. And what are the priorities that we are going to set? That's what we're gonna send a letter about. That's what I was gonna do. I also think it makes sense for the Chamber to see where we are going to set the priorities. In addition, we are working to allocate the money provided for in the coalition agreement, for example, to the various departments and thus to the priorities. I can therefore undertake to do so: the practical implementation of the Work on Implementation programme.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u127	Okay, fine. That's what we're gonna talk about. We can then say ourselves whether we believe that there is sufficient vision in it. That's how we work here, so I really appreciate that coming. If I could advise the minister on one thing, it's that we need to get into the government's DNA ownership. So we should not say 'I take the Minister as an example', but that is not to put her away or frame her, but it just happened again 'you have to be with someone else'. No, that should be: "You come to me, and I'll get you to the right window where I'm sure you'll be helped." So it would be desirable. Then I may ask the wrong question, but then it is said: 'Okay, I can't fix this, but I'm going to get you somewhere where they'll fix it.' That ownership would probably also break through that process-wise, management-like work much more. Does the Minister agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u128	I certainly agree with Mrs Leijten. I didn't mean to say I don't want anything to do with this. If I had to go into the substance of the case, I just don't know. I'm telling you the truth. Only when she says: I would like to know if I can tell these people where to report... If Mrs Leijten has any information on this, I am going to go right to the Secretary of State who is going to do so. Again, I don't know. Maybe this lady has a case manager or something. Then that would be the appropriate place. But I can't see that right now. If Mrs Leijten has that information, then I can promise that I will ensure that it also reaches the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u129	My question builds on that. I could put it this way: what can we expect from this minister as a coordinating director for the whole Work on Implementation programme? And how does that relate to what we can address trade ministers?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u130	That was actually the last question Mr Van der Staaij had asked: do we actually keep the overview together? What can we expect from that? I think that the Work Programme is organising this coordination. You can expect me to identify a number of priorities in that programme. This has to do, for example, with the human dimension, with how you are going to ensure that the people who work in the execution are trained in such a way that they can do so well. It sometimes also requires proper consideration and choices. But it also has to do with how we organise that signals come from the implementation to the departments and that as a cabinet we also inform your Chamber about what exactly we are doing with it or what dilemmas there are behind it. Well, I hope that's what your room is talking about. We are going to report on this programme every year. What exactly are we going to do? I'd just agreed to that for a while. You will receive a letter, which also sets out the priorities we are going to set, the timetables involved and what needs to be set in motion or implemented in the departments. This is reported annually from the cabinet. In addition, the Chamber receives the State of execution. That is the direct execution letter from the various performers to the Chamber, from which lessons can also be learned. In this we keep track of how this whole programme is implemented in all departments. What that actually means in the departments is that the Chamber should really discuss it with the trade ministers, because I am not going to take over responsibility for the implementation organizations which fall within the competence of the trade ministers. But we keep an eye on the actions, monitor what happens with them, and sometimes they are behind the pants at times when we think it is going too slowly.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u131	That's clear. Then there is a specific question. When it comes to legislation, we know that the Ministry of the Interior is looking in particular at its constitutionality, for example, while the Ministry of Justice has a broad responsibility for the quality of legislation. Can it not lead to some kind of bureaucracy that every law must be passed by both Home Affairs and Justice and Security, as well as must be considered in the context of Work on Implementation? Doesn't that mean there's a double?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u132	In legislation, it is important that we make sure that we already have a good analysis of what the problem is, what operationalising the law is going to do with implementation, and how you can involve people in the country, but also practitioners and experts early. I think it is important that the various departments take a good look at this. It shouldn't just be a matter for the trade minister. Of course, JenV already has a role in the legislative processes in the different departments. It's just organized at the back. It will be here, too. In the process Work on Implementation, we look specifically at what is needed in the legislation to make that human dimension possible, for example. This may sometimes be in a specific law that falls under a trade minister, but it may also be in the more generic legislation covered by JenV, for example. So we look specifically at the priorities and the transposition into the law, for example at the hardnesses. Let me give you an example. I'm working on the hard feelings in the Participation Act. There has also been a motion from your Chamber about this, asking to look at the hardness of those laws. If I have any proposals to change that, it is my job to make these proposals. But if we find, for example, that there is no possibility of a hardness clause or something like that, then we have to look carefully at where we are organizing it. That is also one of the questions the Chamber has asked. It means I'll have to look into that with BZK or with JenV. So that's really the WAU process to get those priorities in, for example, the human dimension. In addition, however, each trade minister has a role and a role to play in analysing and possibly removing these various obstacles in his own legislation. This is a rather comprehensive answer, but I think it clarifies just how that process is going.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u133	I have a follow-up to that fine answer. In the WAU, of course, there is a lot of attention to what is called the'multi-problem' with an ugly word. Sometimes in life you have bad luck on different fronts at the same time. Your life doesn't stick to the division of ministries. That's a good thing. It's about one family, one household, one person. They are stuck in arrangements where one scheme is covered by VWS, the other under SZW, and another under BZK. It's about hardness and execution and case managers in the WAU. But I am also very curious to see what happens, in addition, according to the WAU interdepartmental when the legislation comes to an end. So if one household has to do with different problems, who does ownership lie with if there are different rules? How is that taken?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u134	A multi-problem team has indeed been set up. I always think it's a bit of a bad word. That team is looking at situations where one rule gets in the way of the other. How exactly do you deal with that? That's just the way to sort things out in the first place. But it is also explicitly intended that these examples should also be sent to the departments. That is what we must look at. That is where we have to say: hey, if this happens more often, there is something wrong with the legislation. Those are exactly the loops that need to be organized to ensure that the departments get those signals. We call that the loops. I think, for example, that you are going to encounter such examples in the State of implementation. Then there must be a discussion in the WAU about which department's first bottleneck. That's where you have to pick it up. So I cannot say in advance that it will always be the same department that will be the first. It has to be discussed and raised with the various departments, and eventually also if it is right at your Chamber. There one must determine what prevails at some point.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u135	I have a specific follow-up question. We also sometimes see that these signals lie here in the Chamber with different committees, and with different ministers. We're talking about signaling. Just now, Mrs Leijten said something, and you said, "I'll pass that on." We sometimes also waste time because it goes from one committee to another. Then it will take some time for a new debate to take place. My group is thinking about how we can do this better in the discussion between the Chamber and the Cabinet. We need to ensure that we do not wait three months because then it is only then that we have the next debate, for example a debate at BZK on homelessness. We must ensure that this does not constitute a barrier which will delay these things coming to the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u136	As I said, the Work Agenda on Implementation, which we report on, sets out the priorities we have set. In the State of execution it will also get more examples where it sometimes gets pinched in the execution. But this also lies with the trade ministers. Let me give you one example. A schoolboy's in debt. He's going to the city for debt relief. The municipality then says: you must have discharge capacity, so you must go to work. As a result, he may not be able to go to school entirely or at all. Then he has no initial qualification and has difficulty getting into the labour market. He'll have to sign up for a benefit. But then they say with the welfare allowance: you still have to go to school, because you can still go to school. Yeah, it'll get stuck somewhere. On the one hand it is on my domain, but on the other hand it is partly on OCW. Those are exactly the examples; then the rules that we have laid down are wringing. If that is noted, I do not have to wait until there is a State of execution. Then I'll have to sit down with OCW's colleague or others, see how we're going to solve that and proactively inform your Chamber about it. So it is not the case that you have to wait a year to do so, because then we will have to deal with it in a subsequent committee debate. Hopefully. So that's a continuous loop. That's not a moment. Only, you will get a little more overview of the whole at some point. Let's see. By addressing the questions that have been asked, I am already going through a reasonable part of my text. I've just explained how we're doing Work on Implementation. Work on Implementation, in the work programme, also takes into account the recommendations of the Temporary Commission for Implementing Organisations. That was also a question from the Chamber: how do the two relate to each other? In these priorities you will, hopefully, recognise where the recommendations of the TCU lie. I say that not all the recommendations are with us, because some of them are with your Chamber. But they'll stand up for us too, and you'll see them there again. I think I have formulated the introduction to the WAU and what we are doing. I shall then turn to the specific questions put by the various Members. By the way, Mr President, I would like to pass on a few blocks, and at least the Chamber will know it from my side. I don't know if the Secretary of State has any cubes. A few, I hear. I shall first address the reaction to the report of the Temporary Committee, then on the issue of services, then on the issue of legislation and testing and then on other questions about Work on Implementation. The Secretary of State then discusses political and administrative relations, the government organisation, discrimination, the point of contact and, finally, the provision of information. Did you write along? Mr Nijboer can remember it all, I see. He does it out of his head; that's very good. First, the reaction to the report of the temporary committee. Mr Van Baarle has asked whether we agree with all the conclusions and recommendations of the committee. Yes, we endorse it. It is not for nothing that the recommendations contained in the report are part of the Public Service Work Agenda. Moreover, the report of the temporary committee has already been used in the coalition agreement. If you read that, you can find some words about it. As mentioned above, two of the recommendations are addressed exclusively to your Chamber. Mr Strolenberg asked whether we should not report separately on the TCU recommendations every year. That's how I understood his question. I have just explained to Mr Van der Staaij that we are going to report annually on the Work Agenda for Implementation. It contains all the recommendations of the temporary committee, to the extent that they also apply to the cabinet. In addition, we get the State of execution. You can also see how the implementation reflects on the recommendations of the temporary committee. And just for the administration: the first State of implementation will be published in October of this year. That will not remain the appropriate moment, because we really want to go to a moment in spring, on the Day of Implementation. It exists, worldwide, and that is June 23rd this year. We really want to put the implementation at the centre of that day. That will then be the moment when we send the State of execution. But because we were not able to do enough just now, we wanted to provide a report in the autumn. I therefore believe that we have secured the follow-up to the recommendations of the Temporary Committee when we send the documents to the Chamber. Mr Sneller, Mrs Maatoug, as well as Mr Van der Staaij, asked: how are we going to ensure that we not only see that things are better, but that things are actually better? That's just how I summarized the question. They also mentioned, in varying terms, a cultural change, and asked whether in a number of years we will not find that we had another report that had very wise words, but with which too little has been done. I agree with Mr Sneller and Mrs Maatoug that we really need to move forward now. The analyses have already been very extensive and, I say, for some time now, so we must now put those steps into practice: more attention to implementation. For example, as a cabinet itself, we do so by setting up a ministerial committee. That is a gremium where the directors who are all involved come together to really talk about how things are going, how we are on the way with the Work on Implementation recommendations, how we are on the way with the recommendations of the Temporary Committee. So to have that conversation so real with each other about, how are you doing? I think that is also a good time to consider not only the implementation, but also the feasibility, because that is, of course, also the issue. We have opted for a government-wide approach. So it's not just about the Empire, but with Work on Implementation the municipalities are also explicitly involved, the provinces, so really all sections, so that we can act as one government. And all parts of the government must also apply those lessons themselves. So they committed to that, and the Work on Implementation programme also supports them. I have already indicated that we are going to set priorities which we are really going to work on first. The letter is still being worked on, so it will come to your Chamber as soon as possible, and you can take note of it. And there is also the focus on the longer term; it is not just arranged in one year. In this case, therefore, we have taken ten years, because then we can make sure that this culture can work for a really long time in its implementation. How do we get all the trajectories to come together? That is an already answered question from Mr Van der Staaij. So that's what we do by working with one program. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the point of service.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u137	Your summary was very nice and the answers were nice, and the program is quite a zipper with actions. But I am also looking at Mr Van der Staaij. We also had debates in the Chamber, sometime after April, around the declaration of government. I don't know what the name of this debate was, in which things were announced from the Prime Minister. It is about the exchange of information with the Chamber, which also affects these issues. That wasn't all in Work on Implementation. I understood that Mr Van der Staaij asked such a question, but my question was at least the same: how do you keep the overview together, and not just in the conversation, about the sum of actions you pronounce in this Chamber? Could the Minister say something about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u138	I'm just looking for what Mrs Maatoug is referring to. Information is also just a part of a broader discussion with the cabinet, but it is also part of the WAU: how can we inform each other properly, at the right time, and how can we do so in such a way that we can also have a good debate about it? The Secretary of State comes back very specifically to the provision of information to the Chamber. But if things are going on there, that is also something we are discussing among ourselves, for example in the Ministerial Committee on Implementation which we have set up in the Cabinet. I would therefore like to ask if Mrs Maatoug would like to have delivered everything at once.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u139	Mrs Maatoug, perhaps you can explain.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u140	That is not an interruption, Mr President! The specific request is, and I understood the Minister's words as well, so it is actually a clarification: is it true that in the report of the WAU we get not only the commitments and ongoing actions formally covered by the WAU, but also the commitments and ongoing actions that have been promised in a different way in the Chamber on the issues relating to Work on Implementation? Are they also included in the action plans? Did I understand the Minister correctly? Or do we misunderstand each other?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u141	I wonder if there's so much difference. In the WAU there are different priorities, from the human dimension to the professionalism of the employees to more cooperation between the different implementing institutions and thus also the departments. So I think that we are dealing with a large part of this with the WAU, with 300 actions. But if the letter is there, let's just see if Mrs Maatoug still misses parts of all the other commitments that have ever been made. I really think we're gonna get a pretty good end with everything that's in here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u142	Mrs Maatoug, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u143	Certainly in conclusion, Mr President. I thought we'd do it the other way around. Because in this case, we need to see what's missing. I liked the Minister's words so much that everything is taken away. And if it all overlaps, it overlaps. Then one sentence is sufficient: there are no further ongoing actions. Otherwise, it says: and these ongoing actions and commitments from another framework are still ongoing.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u144	Then I'll just look for the subjects...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u145	What's missing? I think that's the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u146	Then I would like to hear more concretely from Mrs Maatoug: on these parts we have had commitments, so is that being taken into account?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u147	Otherwise, we don't know exactly what we're talking about. Mrs Maatoug will come back to that later, I think. Mrs. Leijten, SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u148	I'd like to support Mrs Maatoug. For example, an extensive letter has been sent to the cabinet's resignation: we are drawing these lessons, and we are going to do so. That's when the WAU was running. I think that's what Mrs Maatoug means. Later on, motions were adopted on the contaminated data to be disposed of in all kinds of places. That's what we talked about with the Secretary of State. He said we're getting a briefing on that, so that's nice. But I think that's what Mrs Maatoug means.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u149	I see Mrs Maatoug nodding. I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u150	Yes. After the POK, the Parliamentary Interrogation Committee Childcare Allowance, the Cabinet sent a letter containing all kinds of improvements. All these improvements are reflected in the WAU. With regard to the provision of information, there are really specific points that are being taken up from BZK, such as Article 68 and that kind of thing. That doesn't seem to be the case in the WAU, but that is a path that runs explicitly.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u151	I don't know if this is the right time, but the minister was still talking about the WAU. I have also made regular comments on this subject, but I have noticed tremendously in recent years that if research is to be carried out on these kinds of programmes, the consultants of the well-known advisory and accountancy offices will come. For example, the UHT, the Implementing Organization for Recovery Supplements, was built by Deloitte, I believe. Processes were first made and then they looked at what was needed. I really hope we don't have that trap at the WAU. So really do it with the people who work at those agencies and who really do the work, and so don't do it with the noise that can happen within an organisation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u152	I am now going to tire you of the internal traces we have formulated within the WAU. They all represent goals that are being pursued. The tractors of these tracks are all people who come from the execution, the municipality or the Empire.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u153	That's very good. We have also had a nice talk about the WAU, as part of the preparation for this debate. But I would like to focus on the fact that, if we want to get rid of that new public management, thinking in Excelsheets, in customers, in customer travel and all of them, we really need to find different ways of consulting than those consultancy firms that have contributed to such things as customer travel. I don't think the government should talk like that about services.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u154	I take note of Mrs Leijten's remarks. I am not going to guarantee that there will never again be a consulting firm in the government, because that will not be the case. There will also continue to be regular consultancies thinking about parts of it. This question was specifically about WAU. I have said before that these traces are actually drawn by those people from practice, including from the policy side. They're in there, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u155	Thank you. I would ask the Minister to go through the various subjects a little faster, because we also have the Secretary of State and the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u156	All right. The DENK Group asks what progress has been made in the training of the people and officials who are required to provide the customisation. Various training courses and training courses are already taking place to support those officials in delivering customised work and taking that professional space. For example, the General Administrative Law Act looked at professionals and lawyers in the implementation, with the aim of gaining more insight into the scope to be offered for implementation. What does that mean for the General Administrative Law and how can that space be created for the workers there? Officials also follow training courses at the Institute of Public Values. This is also the case with the Academy of Legislation. Government lawyers are also offered a tailor-made course with the Awb. We try to look both legally and practically at all points where we could better support the people who do the work.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u157	There is an interruption by Mr Van Baarle, DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u158	Yes, my question about these training courses was: how big is the scope of these training courses and is there also a target for the range? I can imagine, and I think it would be very wise to make that customization mandatory, because of its importance; that everyone who has a relevant function in the implementation should be updated in terms of the importance of customisation. Is that range that big?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u159	I don't think it's everyone. I think we should also look closely at those who really need it, who have that direct contact with people and who should be able to make this assessment. What is their lack of knowledge? It may well be that people already have that knowledge and that they no longer have to take that training. This is a very specific part that is in Work on Implementation. I would like to say quite frankly that part of the resources that we have made available for work for implementation must be used for this purpose. The funds are not yet available, all of which will be available during the year. I wouldn't want to say that everyone has to. I think you really need to look at what someone needs to do their job properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u160	Could the Minister then promise that we will see a concrete objective in the further development of the letter that is to come: for these employees, these officials or these services, we consider it important to offer these trainings, and we are focusing on educating so many people or so many people in such a period of time? It's important to keep that sharp. The point is that people are actually going to follow these training courses.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u161	Mr Van Baarle has a good point with that. Those who need it should really be able to follow the training. They can actually ask for it. If you say "at least so many people have to attend that training," it may be that people do not need that training, because they already have the knowledge or are already working from the ground up. I'll see if I can provide actual information on how many more people are being trained on these different tracks. It's not one education or one course. It's really in different places. Then we can discuss that further.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u162	Then I think it would be wise to wait for that information.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u163	I'll send it to you when I send a letter about what priorities and so on we're going to do. If I can get that insights quickly, I'll make that insightful. I hope Mr Van Baarle agrees that I will do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u164	Agreed. I think it is very useful to continue the conversation on the basis of that information. When that information comes, can the Minister also answer the question of how we can ensure that the group of people we think is wise to take the course will also take that course? I think that's something we should send on. If the Minister can answer that question, I am satisfied and we will continue the discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u165	I will also try to indicate how we reach out to the people from whom we consider it relevant that they do that training. Mrs Van Dijk asked: how can we increase the professional space among the professionals in the implementation? This can be done on the one hand by ensuring that you offer that option in the laws and regulations. That sounds almost too simple, but it is not possible in some places at the moment. Policy space is not only provided by the Empire, but sometimes also by internal policies. The scope for manoeuvre is sometimes limited by this too. There will also be a need for customization. That consideration is made by domain. The people must be able to make that assessment and it must be almost a cultural aspect in the organisation that it may be, that it is not just something that may be exceptional, but that you really know that if you offer customization, that does not, in a manner of speaking, result in a conversation with your supervisor. You have to work with all those points at the same time. As already mentioned, the Ministries of BZK and JenV also consider whether changes should be made to the General Administrative Law to promote the provision of customisation, such as allowing for the principle of proportionality. How can we, ask Mr... Sorry, the VVD spokesperson. I forgot his name, excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u166	Strolenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u167	Strolenberg. How can we improve services in a proactive way? I think that we should, above all, ensure that we work as a government as a whole, not every time with one window or the other. That is what I am saying to Mrs Leijten, who rightly pointed out to me that this should simply work in practice. That way, too, we have to make sure that no one ever knocks on the wrong door. That door needs to open and we need to make sure those people are really helped. This applies not only to people, but also to companies. That is also an important point that they often run into. For example, we have already started some experiments in the social domain within the chain to see how we can better shape that. Then we can also see whether there is a need for adjustments in how we work together in the social domain, but also whether there is a need to adapt the laws and regulations to parts. This is an explicit part of the Work on Implementation work agenda. That was the point of service. Then I come to legislation and tests. When, asks Mr. Van Baarle, will the Second Chamber receive the revised IAK? The review is in full swing, in cooperation with all departments, from the different disciplines. It is not just about content, but also about how it works. It is embedded in training for civil servants and we are looking at how we can ensure this. That is certainly going to happen this year, and I think it will happen next year. The starting point is that the results achieved in the interim will be implemented immediately, so that the improvements can be used immediately. Around the summer, my colleague, the Minister for Legal Protection, will be able to provide you with further information on the development and state of play. Then the ability to do it. Many Members have drawn attention to this. Can legislation look at what that means for citizens' capacity to do? The WRR has proposed to enter a do-it-yourself test. During the General Political Reviews, the Den Haan/Hermans motion was adopted, in which the Cabinet is asked to examine not only whether the policy is feasible and feasible for the authority, but also whether it is understandable, accessible and accessible to the citizen, so to really keep the perspective on people. The Work on Implementation programme discussed with the various departments that, on the basis of this motion, a well-functioning performance test is being developed, on the basis of the existing test and the conceptual framework of the WRR. We're really gonna take the WRR proposal. All departments will take care of this separately in their execution tests. The Work on Implementation programme will monitor this. We were just talking about the IAK, the Integrated Weighting Framework. The do-it-yourself test will become a mandatory part of that, so that's what it's going to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u168	Maybe the answer to my question comes and I'm just too early. This is about new legislation. Then you apply the law to new decisions you make. But we all have legislation that raises the question of how it meets that test of do-it-yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u169	We're all busy looking at the so-called hardnesses in the laws. This is also the result of the motion for a resolution adopted by Mr Omtzigt. This process looks at how legislation works in practice. This very often also has a link with whether people can deal with it, yes or no, and whether they are sometimes disproportionately disadvantaged on that aspect. It is not that we are going to apply the whole framework of the WRR to that. I think that we can raise this question with the hard-working debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u170	It's very good what happens on hardnesses. There are also good initiatives from the Court to regulate this properly in all laws and regulations. And then we come to the discussion about customization. My question focused on the image of the human being underlying legislation, as indicated in the input and in several reports of the WRR, for example in the case of the surcharges. The Minister said this in her opening words: the calculating citizen knows what all the arrangements are like. That assumption doesn't add up. And that's exactly what sharpens the tools in such a power test. It is very good that it happens and that there will be hardnesses. But my question is: 'I hope the Minister, on behalf of the cabinet, will agree to this, whether we will take the same test on the ability to act in the logic of the laws that are already in force.' Not only on the piece of hardness, but also on the rest of the legal framework.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u171	That's a pretty big question, I'm just saying. My practical solution was that we talk about this precisely in the debate on the hardnesses, where often a human image or a vision of society is under those laws. We have already had a discussion on the Participation Act and you can see that some elements are driven very much by mistrust. There is a huge accountability behind it, which makes it much more difficult, for the municipalities in this case, to see exactly what the situation of such a person is and what he is most helped with. That's exactly what we're going to have. Then it is not exactly the power test that Mrs Maatoug has in mind, but it is a reason to talk about that ability. If we now have to pass all the laws along the rules of the power test, we'll really be going on for a few more years, I'm afraid.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u172	That's exactly how it is. It is also a very big question, as is the underlying analysis of the report we are talking about today. In all the actions, in all the choices that have been made, there was a dominant mindset. It's in our laws. My question is not: Minister, just make a promise that we will do the domineering test. What I'm looking for is that with the report we're discussing today, and not just the piece of hardness, we're using that logic. I hear the Minister very well when she says that I am doing so in the Act of Participation. That's probably a bit of an answer. But that's one law. For example, there are many laws in the area of the Minister and in that of all her colleagues. I'm trying to figure out how to make that clear, or else we're gonna do what we always do. We are going to pay attention to new things, but the mistakes are also in the legal framework that is already in place.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u173	Again, we are already looking at the hardnesses. This does not happen in one law, but in different laws. That really goes over a lot of departments. You will also be informed about this during the year. When you have hard feelings, it's often the question of what's behind it and how. What does it mean in practice, can someone not handle what we have invented? My practical suggestion would be that, as a Chamber in that debate and in that overview, we should also address the question of capacity for action. That is not exactly the WRR's joke, I say with great respect for the WRR, but it is the underlying question that comes with it: can people deal with this law? If we now have to put all the laws past that framework again, I am afraid that we are very much in the process of analysis, while we now have to move on to the solutions, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u174	I'm trying to avoid a motion. I thought we could come to something in the conversation. I'm not here to do a power test on all the laws, but only the hardnesses is too narrow. For example, in the case of supplements, the thought of the human being is in it. That's not just in the hardness. That's just an expression. But I'm gonna write the motion, and maybe it'll work in one last attempt. In all those acts that take place around hard feelings, but also in the mind of the cabinet, I wonder where I can find that test as a Member of Parliament. It's not about the power test, it's about checking the logic of the laws and regulations that already exist. So it's not new stuff. I do not know this test, but perhaps the Minister knows more than I do on this front.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u175	Where you can find that? The Secretary of State is also going to say something about it. Shall we then try to formulate concrete answers? Maybe that'll help.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u176	Mrs. Van der Graaf, Christian Union. I would like to ask Mrs Maatoug to really limit the number of interruptions, otherwise we will have a imbalance. I say the same to Mrs Leijten. Mrs. Van der Graaf, Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u177	In the forest of rules where people try to find their way, they sometimes call for a solution. In his response to the Van Dam Committee's report, the cabinet said that there is no wrong door. If you call someone and you're not in the right place, you'll be helped until you're in the right place. I'm asking the Minister to explain what's going on with that. How far have we come to this point of departure?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u178	In my view, the Secretary of State would still address the issue of "stop-shop'.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u179	Yeah, sure. My comment would also be that she would take this question with her.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u180	Is that okay? Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u181	Let's see. The VVD asks if a fixed chapter can be included in the outline letter on the execution tests. That seems to me to be a good idea in itself, but we have to take a good look at what the whole execution test is. The characteristic of a headline letter is that it has not all been worked out in detail; it is thought lines. At the same time, we will indicate the consequences for implementation, as far as you can see on that point. Without going all the way in detail, we can see if such a passage can be included in the outline letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u182	It is not so much an implementation test, but it is more about what the new legislation is about and where it affects implementation. The point is that that comes back with an explanation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u183	I think that's a workable proposal. I can promise. Can something be done to limit complex regulation? That is a very fair question. Several members have indicated that complex regulation immediately reduces the capacity for action, but sometimes also creates conflicting situations that need to be resolved elsewhere. This requires first of all making it clear when we make legislation. We must try to see where these other areas can be affected, and what consequences it can have for people, practitioners, but also for companies and others who are affected by that legislation. In addition, we will also continue to have a kind of reality check complex situations. Even if we try so hard to prevent that, there will still be. And then we also have to look at how the arrangements are at least workable in implementation. If there are questions, they must be resolved in the multi-problem consultation, for example, so that the people concerned are not at the same time the victims. And if practical solutions are to be found, then they must be lifted back to the Ministry, after which we will see what that means for the approximation of laws and regulations. That is a continuous process that we must continue to go through.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u184	Perhaps you can answer the question that I asked about the decomplexity impact, perhaps a difficult word for simplifying. If you are working on new legislation, then I think that is the right time to get to work on it. So it is really a request, for example in that paragraph in the main letter, to mention something about it. If there are opportunities, then that is also the time to seize them. Otherwise, you'd have to do some kind of cleaning up on all the legislation, and that would be a huge project. But when new legislation is introduced, attention should also be paid to the opportunities it offers to make things simpler. Maybe you can promise me that, and I won't have to make a motion on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u185	Yes. I must say quite frankly that some things do not necessarily have to be made simpler by legislation. Sometimes that is not so much the goal, but rather the result of the goal we are pursuing. Let me give you just one example: at the moment there is no basic grant. That is very simple and clear. We'd like to introduce it. This may also cause a bit of complexity, but it does, seen from the cabinet, with a good cause, namely the introduction of something that people can go on with. So I cannot promise that it will always lead to less complexity, but I can promise that within that regulation people will think about reducing that complexity as much as possible. Finally, Mr President, I would like to touch on other questions that have been raised in the field of work and implementation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u186	Before you continue, Mr. Sneller of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u187	One of the Committee's comments was about greening the execution test and, at the same time, about the feeling among some people in the Chamber that it is also used by ministers and secretaries of state as a political instrument. What is this minister doing on the basis of her responsibility to ensure that it really becomes a neutral and reliable instrument?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u188	By having such an execution test prepared mainly by the execution. They are the ones who cannot indicate what is workable and what is not politically coloured. In the debate between the Chamber and the Cabinet, the Chamber may assume that this is also expressed in terms of implementation. In addition, members of parliament may also be able to enter into the conversation with the execution to check whether something proposed will actually work out as proposed by the cabinet. We just need transparency in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u189	The latter is something we must certainly do. Does the Minister say that these kind of execution tests do not pass the political line before they can come to the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u190	No, the implementation is always the ministerial responsibility. That's what the roles are like. But it is not so much that I have not experienced it, but apparently there is another feeling in the Chamber that there is a deliberate appreciation of it by the directors, with the remarks of the execution dropped. Once again, your Chamber can ask itself about this, including, for example, the state of execution. Implementation sometimes also brings back dilemmas in politics that are not always resolved. There may be political reasons for this, not only for the cabinet, but also for the Chamber. There is sometimes an ideology behind this, or there is sometimes a lot of money involved, so that political priorities are changed. But it is not that this information is not available. That is the line and as far as I am concerned it will remain the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u191	The Minister has had a blessed existence as a Member of Parliament if she has never experienced it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u192	I'll say it from the cabinet's side.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u193	I meant that it was never used and that there was a political coloration by a ruler about what had come out of the execution or that there was a translation in it. Let me put it mildly. The greening is, of course, also there within those implementing organisations. It starts with "it can't actually" and eventually comes out "yes, it can, we just need some extra money." How is the Minister going to address that point?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u194	This is exactly the kind of conversation we need to have with those parties, including those responsible for implementation. It's not to give a you-bake, but it's not in the least that we ask this kind of thing for execution, because there's often pressure from the Chamber asking for something. Sometimes I get an overview when legislation can be introduced in implementation. Sometimes I feel bad because it takes a long time. Systems still need to be adapted. Then I think: I want it now, because this is so good. But I still have to bite my lip. And yet I have to ask again whether that really is the deadline for them to do so. And if they say it's really the deadline, then it's up to me to communicate it to the Chamber. Very often, then, the Chamber asks for it to be asked again, because it is thought that it is taking too long. That is precisely the interaction in such a debate, in which I have, at least, made a commitment to genuinely implement it. But if your Chamber decides by majority that something needs to be introduced sooner, then I will have to work with it. This is precisely the field of tension that sometimes exists and on which we need to have a good debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u195	The Minister's rounding off.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u196	Yes. Let's see. Mrs Van Dijk asks for the annual report of the implementing organisations to list the main bottlenecks, so that we know what they are. The temporary committee has also indicated that it is important for the Lower House to have an insight into the quality and the bottlenecks. That is also what we are going to take into account in the state of execution. Then that insight is given to the House of Representatives. As I said, we're gonna do it together now. At Social Affairs we already have a state of implementation since 2018, but we are now going to do so more broadly, so that the Chamber can see the bottlenecks across various implementation organisations.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u197	I don't think I've been entirely clear. What I was actually trying to make clear is that I think it is important for the annual reports to list the main bottlenecks experienced from the implementation, as well as a plan for how to solve them.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u198	But that is exactly the state of play. You will also receive this service as a Room. Mr Van Baarle asks when an implementation plan will be drawn up and when the improvement operation will be a success. We have opted for a government-wide approach with Rijk, municipalities, implementation, provinces, but also with you as a political one. So all these layers have to apply those lessons. We are going to name the priorities, because we also have to make sure that we do not consider everything important at the same time and sink into a path in which we do not get much further. So we really need to focus. That's what we're gonna do, and you're gonna get another letter about that. In addition, we are going to continue the long year. So it's not a matter of solving everything just as quickly in one year, but it has to be structurally embedded in the organizations.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u199	Still building on the point when the operation is a success. That is a very difficult question, because it is partly related to a human image, a way of acting that is very difficult to grasp in numbers. We also want to capture everything in numbers. But how are we going to make measurable evidence that this is going to be a success?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u200	There isn't one purpose. If you ask me for an indicator when this is a success, you are not going to get it. This also has to do with the question of how a whole implementation organisation works. They are of course different from each other on a case-by-case basis. One has to do with much more complex laws and regulations than the other. The nature of the work is sometimes very different. So even the question of how many people are satisfied with such an organisation is sometimes difficult. I have once been responsible for an implementation organisation that was not so often in direct contact with people, but which was very important to shape supervision, for example. In all areas, it will have to be translated into the different implementation organisations from the priorities. You will then be able to enter into the debate with the various trade ministers. What exactly does that mean in practice for that implementation organisation? That's the road map we need. I think that otherwise the programme will be a very large overview of all kinds of different implementation organisations. As a programme organisation, we ensure that all those implementing organisations work on the priorities and also that they report to us on exactly what they are doing with them. Then we can monitor that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u201	I have to tell you, I don't have the answer yet either. I read the first documents, of course. It's just good things that we're aiming for. But the hard part is that we don't have something in mind that we can take care of each other. What do we end up getting at? That's a tough one for me. I also have to think about this myself, but I think it makes sense to try to make it more concrete, perhaps in the following sections of the government as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u202	I think that we can get this debate going here on the basis of the priorities that we will be sending out later. But let me tell you one thing: none of these figures are hard. The Secretary of State has just said that it concerns, for example, people's confidence in an implementation organisation. Then it's about whether people feel the service is pleasant. Then it's about whether we reach the people we want to reach. Those aren't all hard-core numbers, or whatever. That is often in a question like: can the organisation do the work in a way that is pleasant for the employees? People working at an implementation organisation are often held responsible for matters on which political choices lie. That does something to the people who work at these organizations. It is also one of our responsibilities to make it better. In short, it's not one digit. It's not one ticking list. In fact, if we did that, we might fall into the trap of applying that business again to something that a public service provider might not always fit. Mr. Chairman. I think these were the answers to the questions I was asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u203	There is one more question from Mrs Leijten. Then we'll go to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u204	That question is somewhat in line with what Mr Van Baarle is trying to investigate. Now the TCU has done an analysis. The TCU talks about "the triangle" all the time. So you have the Lower House, the legislator, the departments and the execution. Where in that triangle would the minister place the resident? Because we're all doing it for our residents.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u205	That's, uh, in the middle. We all have to focus on the inhabitants, on the people. From that point of view, we all have to think: what does it mean for the laws we are making and what does it mean for the way they are ultimately implemented?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u206	I would like to thank the Minister for her reply. I'll suspend the meeting for a single moment and then we'll go to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u207	I give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u208	Thank you, Mr President. Of course, I agree with what my colleague, Mr Schouten, has said here. The cabinet is committed to a government that is serviceable, accessible and accessible, and puts the human dimension first. The cabinet must not only work to restore confidence, but also to ensure that it is maintained. And we can't do that alone. We need cooperation with your Chamber, co-governments, knowledge institutions, civil society organisations, the judiciary and, of course, the rest of society. I think that many of the reports we are discussing today show that there is a great challenge for all of us to improve functioning and to be reliable and serving. Also from my Ministry, Home Affairs and Kingdom Relations, many thanks to the Bosman Committee. We also support the recommendations, of course. It has produced many insights, not only about what is not good, but also about what we can do to improve our functioning. It also fits very well with all the activities that we want to take up in the context of WAU and the POK. That's where we started at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. We are increasingly trying to involve citizens and entrepreneurs in the development and testing of services and services, by developing them from life events, such as moving, marrying, having children. In doing so, we want to improve the services of various organisations, across the borders of their organisations, for citizens. We have just talked in detail about the fact that, of course, we are working more and more on that "there is no wrong door' principle. I will come back to that later on on the basis of the questions. In doing so, we try to work more and more together and to take people on, to make sure that there is no place you can't go. Quite a lot of work still needs to be done. What we want to do is to present ourselves as one government, so that citizens, and businesses, suffer as little as possible from the fact that tasks and powers are spread across different government organisations or different layers of government organisations. A subject that I am going to do very hard for is to ensure a good digital infrastructure. In doing so, we want to ensure that there is not only digital accessibility, but that this infrastructure is also based on the same principles, namely: simple and not too easily a wrong window. That way it has to work for a lot of people, including people who are not so digitally skilled. We are, of course, also trying to combine this with all the work of other ministries, in order to improve work and services. A theme that we are also working very hard on in Home Affairs is, of course, preparing for more customisation in policy and regulation in practice. That is why we need to look again at how we make laws and regulations, how we develop them and how we evaluate them. That point has just been mentioned in the debate and the debate with Minister Schouten. I now turn to the questions that have been asked. I start with the first block, which is called political-administrative relations. That is in response to Mr Nijboer's question, because he asked: what exactly is the situation? Well, it's clear that the government is responsible for the execution. In the political theory of separation of powers, that's us. We share a shared responsibility for the legislation. When it comes to how to improve implementation, it is of course also clear that this cooperation will return there. After all, very complex and complex legislation often means much more work for implementation. It also often means that it is more difficult for people to understand how something works. But the distribution of course works in such a way that we have to ensure that we have both good implementation and certainly that we talk very well with each other when we establish legislation and regulations on this issue of feasibility. Mr Sneller asked about the Court of Auditors' report on the position of implementing organisations. The essence is, of course, that the General Court says: think carefully in advance about the choices and the consequences of choices you make when you start implementing them. Furthermore, the General Court says: implementing organisations, take the time to think through regulations and policies. That was just the subject that was raised. I think it is also very necessary that this feasibility review is not just about who to do it, but also about how to do it. After all, there is not only the question of whether an implementation organisation can do that, but also how to keep your finger on the wrist and how to ensure that the ability to do so is taken into account. The fact that we have a lot of work to do and that we also need to devote extra time and attention to this is a subject that I very much support, not least, of course, because of the experience I have gained in my previous portfolio. Then there's the government organizations.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u209	Before you continue: an interruption by Mr Sneller of D66. It was a doubt?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u210	It was a question of whether it would still be dealt with in this block. The Court of Auditors is also saying: think again if you can steer some of the implementation that has been put at a distance with all the extra resources if it remains remote. My question is actually: is the cabinet still looking at whether we should keep it organised in this way? Or are we just gonna pull things back to us?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u211	I think we should look at this subject by topic. At the moment, there is no overall programme to see exactly what we should do with the implementation organisations that are a little further away. But I think it would be a good idea to include this in our programme to improve implementation. I think you should do that on the basis of practice. It's often the case that when you change something, it doesn't necessarily get better. We have to look carefully at that, but I think it is good to take that into account in our implementation improvement programme. Then there was the question of Mr Van Baarle of DENK: how does the cabinet ensure that there will be a new philosophy or a philosophy of steering? A little more has just been exchanged. We are also thinking about this from the work we are doing. The main letter from the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations states that we want to invest in a better state service, of high quality. We also want to look at the structure and the guiding principles that play a role in this. Then, of course, it is important that we also put forward a philosophy of steering. The core of this is the points that are in line with what we have heard in the context of what has been said about the TCU and the lessons from the POK: work based on trust, with the heart and face to the people for whom we are doing it, and not least with an open hand to anyone who needs help, when he or she is stuck in the implementation, regulation or crossroads between different implementing organisations. Then to Mr Sneller's question: how can we ensure that in the core departments the sense of, and experience with, the implementation of policies is sufficiently guaranteed? The proposal you have made is: should we not have at least one person with experience in implementation practice in each board? I very much endorse that interest. Knowledge of implementation is very necessary in order to steer implementation organisations properly. I am also convinced that you should not only do that by having knowledge of implementation. I also believe that the summit of a department, but also the people who are politically responsible, should keep themselves regularly informed of the quality of the implementation organisations. They should visit the people for whom we make the policy, go into consultation with them, talk to those who can sometimes get into trouble on the basis of the policy that has been made. In this way, we must ensure that implementation practice is actually taken into account. Fortunately, there are many places where this knowledge of implementation is already there, but I think it is important that, in the recruitment and selection of top officials, we also really pay attention to ensuring that there is sufficient knowledge, in a broad sense of course, of the work that needs to be done, but certainly also of the implementation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u212	I'd like that. It is also a broader problem. Due to the recent conduct of the carousel 3-5-7, the specific knowledge is missed, not only in the top, but also in the organisation.................................................................................................................................................................... There was really a lot of knowledge at the Empire about spatial planning, but it has simply disappeared over the past twenty years. Is that also something the Cabinet is working on?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u213	There has been an evaluation of the General Administrative Service and its functioning. You discussed this with the previous Minister of the Interior. I think it's both very important. Of course, it is important to ensure that knowledge is present within the administrative apparatus, to ensure that we can do the job properly. Think of managing implementation organisations and knowledge. As far as I know, the previous cabinet has, of course, also had an exchange of views on this cabinet in order to ensure that this type of subject is actually addressed in recruitment and selection.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u214	Under New Public Management it was a bit of rotation...Miss Leijten...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u215	Wouldn't you agree?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u216	Yeah, he agrees. There was something to be said for that. If you have a dg, a director general, who's been running the kingdom alone for 20 years, that wasn't good either. But I do think it's been a little flushed. The cross-border official who has been doing spatial planning for 15 years or has been a fiscalist for 20 years in a very specific area and occasionally dares to say no to politics has been promoted in practice, I would say. My appeal to the cabinet is to restore that knowledge of the arts. It's really a national problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u217	I'd like to take that call to heart. I will certainly pass that on to my colleague, the Minister of the Interior. Then there is the question of the Christian Union, of Mrs Van der Graaf, whether the cabinet is prepared to focus on services in society and whether it wants to express that in changing the oath or promise. My answer is that it is incredibly important for civil servants to be aware of the impact of their work on society. This applies to every layer of government, whether it is civil servants on the phone to help people who have questions or problems or the top of the official organizations. It's incredibly important. That is why we believe that service to society and focus on those for whom you do it should be central. A motion has already been tabled on the adjustment of the oath of office. That motion will be carried out. We're making a start on actually giving it hands and feet. Then I'm going to the block with questions about the subject of the wrong human image, about discrimination. Mrs Maatoug van GroenLinks asked a question about this. Do we have a good overview? We were just talking about that in the debate. Do we have a good idea of what's going on? There's an inventory of all kinds of places. For example, Minister Schouten said something about the Participation Act, but it also happens in other places in the Empire. And better yet, we have set up an internet consultation to ensure that citizens and interest groups can also submit examples of legislation that is harsh in practice or in some circumstances hard in practice. We have already received more than 400 comments. We are analysing them, of course together with the departments, to ensure that they can respond to them in their own legislation. That is incredibly important, and I say this with the experience I have gained before, because there can always be new hardnesses. The world is changing, of course, and legislation is sometimes behind that. In addition, we are working with the JenV Ministry on a proposal for the amendment of the General Administrative Law Act, to ensure that it is more human-oriented, and a cabinet vision on hardness clauses. Hardness clauses can sometimes only work in very exceptional, unforeseen circumstances. But we are looking to create the possibility of giving people who are at work in the execution the freedom to do their work in cases where they think that a slightly different judgment is necessary to help someone or to work on the basis of the intention of the law and not on the basis of what is described. The aim is to send a letter this spring in which we will discuss the follow-up to that study of hardness, the proposal for the amendment of the General Law on Administrative Law and the government vision of the hardness clauses. Those are the three points I have just mentioned. I now come to the point of contact. In fact, it has already been discussed a number of times how exactly this one-stop-shop principle is being implemented. So it is really the intention to ensure that the government presents itself as much as possible as a whole. That is also in line with Mrs Van der Graaf's motion. Of course, this plays on a number of fronts. It is therefore important not only to create one new point of contact, but also to ensure that there is a proper referral. This should not be done on the basis of: 'Contact the other government organisation and go there'. That must be done much more on the basis of warm transfer. We are doing experiments in this context, together with municipalities and implementation organisations. We expect that we will be done with this in December and that we will be able to send the first results to your Chamber. It might be good to add that we are looking at the point where you can go if you need help in the short term. This is happening a little on the basis of the points also mentioned by Mrs Leijten. On the other hand, however, we must continue to signal it if, for example, a question, a problem or a bottleneck occurs more frequently. When that happens, you have to be able to pick it up, either by eventually adapting the legislation, or, if possible, by setting up better regulations or instructions for the people who carry out the work. I will go to the VVD's question about unclear and legal language. How can you ensure more accessible communication? This is, of course, a subject that we talk a lot about and which we are also working on a lot. Fortunately, there are initiatives. Instantly Clear is organized together with User Central. We are also working on this with the Foundation Reading and Writing and others. We have also done research, because it turns out it helps if we do indeed communicate much more clearly on our websites or in our letters. It helps to strengthen confidence and, of course, improve the comprehensibility and readability of the texts. Much remains to be done in this area, and this will continue to be the case. We will therefore continue to want to pay attention to this. The last block is about information. A question has been asked by Mr Sneller in connection with the debate between Mr Sneller and Mrs Leijten. How's it going with the co-operation between official support and the Chamber? Can we improve openness and speed there? Of course, it is our intention to make it possible for Members of Parliament to also have contact with officials for the sharing of technical information. This could take the form of technical assistance with a technical explanation, in public and with all Members of Parliament who wish to attend. That can also be a bit more in the form of support, for example. We believe it is important that there is openness and space to do so, so that you can do your job better, with the help of people from the departments. Mrs Leijten had another question about the costs associated with legal proceedings and Wob requests. Actually, we don't have any figures on those Wob requests. We know that many and regularly Wob requests are made. We also know that we have work to do in this area to speed up handling. This must certainly be done by working to improve the information system of the government itself, so that it can be found more easily and better, and so that we can also ensure that the right information goes to people as quickly as possible. Those were the answers to the questions I have been asked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u218	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the first term. I suggest we proceed immediately to the second term. The first speaker is Mr Van Baarle from DENK. I'll give him the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u219	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the cabinet for answering the questions. A number of motions from the DENK Group. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the Temporary Commission for Implementing Organisations (TCU) notes that there is no guiding philosophy for the government as a whole, while it would be widely recognised that the business approach would have gone too far;]] [[calls on the Government to develop a new philosophy of steering in order to improve the implementation of policies and services, taking into account the interests of citizens in the formulation and implementation of policies, and to inform the Chamber of how this philosophy of governance is implemented as a guiding principle in the government,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Baarle.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35387-6]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u220	A new M.O., Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna have to get used to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u221	Actually, it's the old M.O.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u222	Yeah, that's right! As a new guy, I haven't seen him. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Temporary Commission for Implementing Organisations (TCU) notes that the legislator should pay more attention to the capacity of citizens;]] [[Whereas this means that policies must be consistent with people's perceptions and skills;]] [[Whereas a good service also means that people are treated in a way that is in keeping with their cultural experiences without prejudice;]] [[calls on the Government to address, in its further policy response to the TCU report, the question of how the government will promote cultural sensitivity in service provision and implementation, including differences in language skills, treatment, awareness and prevention of prejudice,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Baarle.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35387-7]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u223	Mr. Chairman. Finally, the test on do-it-yourself. The answer did not make it quite clear to me whether it would become mandatory and standard.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u224	You're running out of time.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u225	Still, the motion. Just the operative part, then. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to carry out by default a performance test in the case of legislative proposals and policies affecting the implementing organisations or services, in accordance with the WRR's proposal, and to always forward the results to the House of Representatives,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Baarle.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35387-8]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u226	Thanks for the coulance and apology.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u227	Thank you. I shall now give the floor to Mr Sneller of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u228	Thank you. Thank you to the directors for the answer. I have a question for the President. Recommendation 7 is addressed to the Bureau. It is recommended that a year after treatment be evaluated as to whether this report has led to structural changes. I ask the President how she and the Presidium intend to take that recommendation. That question does not need to be answered now, but I thought it would be good to do so, because it is an important recommendation that is really only for the Chamber. The Secretary of State has replied to my proposal to ensure that there are sufficient members on the Board of Directors at least one person who has ample experience in implementation practice. I wasn't quite clear if she made this ambition her own. Did she say "we're gonna take care of that," or did she say "this is an interesting idea, but we need to think about it"? So I'm filing the motion. In the light of our report, I'd like to withdraw her. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas knowledge of implementation is of great importance not only for political officials but also for officials;]] [[Whereas it is desirable that experience of implementing policies should also be available at the highest level of administration;]] [[Calls on the Government to ensure that at each ministry sufficient members.... and at least one member.. of the Governing Council have extensive experience in implementation practice, and to inform the Chamber of each year in the Company Rijk report,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Sneller.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35387-9]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u229	Like I said, embrace. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u230	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mrs Van der Graaf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u231	Madam President, thank you very much. I thank the rulers for their response to the report, to the questions of the Chamber and to the questions of myself, which I asked on behalf of the Christian Union Group. I very much welcome the inclusion of the do-it-yourself test in the integrated balancing framework. I have the question to the Minister: when will that be? Because that means that as a Chamber, we can also ask in legal proceedings and policy documents how this power test has taken shape in practice. Thank you also to the Secretary of State, who indicated that one window, which was indeed a motion from my hand, from the Christian Union, together with the UNG. I am glad to hear that. I am very curious at which places, in which municipalities, these experiments are currently running. And I am also very curious about the first results that will come out of it. Thank you for the explanation, indeed in response to Mr Ellian's motion, Mr Ellian, that the oath is being adapted for the officials and more focused on a serviceable society. I think it's very important that that happens. Mr. Chairman. I think it has been a good debate, in which much has passed. And I hope that this will really lead to this, and that is not going to happen overnight, and I realize very well that the provision of services to citizens will be much better guaranteed. That requires something from all of us, and I hope to give it a place in my contribution. I would like to hope for the good follow-up.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u232	Thank you, Mrs Van der Graaf. Then I give the floor to Mrs Inge van Dijk, CDA. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u233	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you for your answer. I think I might have gotten some answers in the direction I was trying to steer in my contribution. But I do have a few motions to make it more concrete. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that complex laws and regulations make it difficult for citizens to understand and do what is expected of them;]] [[Whereas implementation tests should include not only the perspective of implementation organisations but also the perspective of citizens;]] [[calls on the government to carry out a performance test on proposals for new laws and regulations, in particular if it affects citizens' income, and to inform the Chamber of the experience of the do-it-yourself test before 1 September 2023,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that loss of personal contact, a strict legal framework and automatic decision-making through algorithms hinder professionals from delivering customized services;]] [[Whereas professionals should have a certain degree of control over the implementation of policies;]] [[Whereas professionals need to be better equipped and trusted in the implementation of laws and regulations;]] [[calls on the Government to start at least three pilots with implementing organisations to increase the scope for professionals in implementation and to inform the Court before 1 September 2022,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Inge van Dijk and Mr Van der Graaf.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35387-10]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Inge van Dijk, Mr Strolenberg and Mr Van der Graaf.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35387-11]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u234	And the last one. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that signals about problems in implementation do not always reach those who can deal with them;]] [[Whereas signals from the workplace are indispensable for the better functioning of implementing organisations;]] [[calls on the government to urge implementing organisations to include in their annual report a top three of the problems identified in the implementation and its approach,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Inge van Dijk and Mr Van der Graaf.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35387-12]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u235	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. And thank you for this debate. It's up to me, indeed. Let's keep each other on that, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u236	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Strolenberg, VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u237	Thank you. I certainly agree with Mrs Van Dijk: it is a matter of doing and addressing each other. We need to keep each other on that. Thank you for the answers given by the Secretary of State and Minister. One important point I wanted to make was to have in that future outline letter a paragraph which deals with its implementation or impact and also with the 'decomplexisation stroke', if any, which could be made in the legislation. I have also heard that we are getting some things back on the recommendations and the state of play. To mark that out, I would like to make a motion, which reads as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that the cabinet has taken on board the recommendations of the Bosman Commission, but has come back in several reports and programmes in a fragmented way, thus losing the overview;]] [[whereas the Committee has made valuable recommendations;]] [[Considers that it is important not to lose sight of the recommendations of the report on "Clamp between Bar and Policy" and to comply with all recommendations, as formulated by the Bosman Committee;]] [[calls on the Government to send the Chamber an annual cabinet-wide letter on the state of play regarding the recommendations made by the Bosman Commission to the Cabinet,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Strolenberg.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35387-13]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u238	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you again to the members of the committee who are present for the report. Thanks for the answer. Nice to do it together, as the colleague of the CDA also said. It's also about our own capacity. I forgot to mention that my contribution was also on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. So that is what has been said. I have one motion, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the TCU notes that the starting point should be that citizens should not only know the law, but should also be able to do so;]] [[Whereas the Government, as advised by the TCU and at the request of the Chamber, intends to carry out a power test in the case of new legislation submitted to the Chamber;]] [[considers that this is important not only for new legislation but also for existing legislation;]] [[Considering that the government is in the process of drawing up a legislative inventory to remove distressing effects of legislation through the incorporation of hardness clauses into legislation;]] [[calls on the Government to include in this inventory what is necessary to include citizens' capacity to act in relation to existing legislation, and to inform the Court thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Maatoug.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35387-14]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u239	I understand the motion is now being picked up by the messenger. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u240	It is indeed remarkable that the new Members have not yet seen it. That's the old, re-introduced, M.O. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Leijten van de SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u241	I asked the Minister: if you look at that triangle, which is always so busy with each other, where should we place the inhabitants? In the middle, she said. I think that's hopeful. I like that. I said that we need a vision: what do we have the government for, and how do we organise it? That's what we're working on, the minister said. I think that's hopeful, too. You will find the SP on your side, and we will always look at it critically and precisely in view of that. If this is the result of the Bosman Committee and the supplement scandal, of actually a number of years in which we have seen that the middle was empty or the view was not there, then hopefully we can also say in ten years' time that we have really learned from it. That's one of the things I've said a lot in recent years: what do we learn from this? Hopeful. I'm less hopeful about the difference between word and deed. Someone from the supplemental scandal still has to go to court, and they're facing the Tax Department and Pels Rijcken, while we've set up an entire organization to compensate someone. That shows the opposite. Then I think: of course it takes time, but I would like so much that we are actually going to create that ownership and the phone number to which you can call. And then there's another motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Temporary Commission for Implementing Organisations notes that, despite the recent changes, the Instructions for the external contacts of state officials in practice create obstacles in the contact between parliament and implementation;]] [[noting that the Committee notes that direct contact between the Chamber and implementation will improve the capacity of the Chamber to carry out the co-legislative and supervisory tasks, improve the quality of information and improve the visibility of the implementation of laws;]] [[Whereas the Committee and the specialists questioned advise to normalise direct contact between MPs and implementation;]] [[calls on the Government to implement the opinion to normalise direct contact between MPs and to implement it and to thoroughly review the Instructions for the external contacts of national officials,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Leijten, Mr Inge van Dijk, Mr Strolenberg, Mr Maatoug, Mr Van Baarle, Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Van der Graaf and Mr Nijboer.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35387-15]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u242	I see Mr. Nijboer wasn't in the room for a while, but if he wants to join me, I'd love to put his name in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u243	Thank you very much, Mrs Leijten. I shall now give the floor to Mr Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u244	Thank you to the rulers for the answer. In a book I read about government errors the other day, it said, "The learning of government errors is as difficult as it is for people." I thought that was a very nice and recognizable point. I noticed in the elevator on my way to this debate that I was getting off the wrong floor for the umpteenth time, because I thought that if I pressed the button, I would automatically come to the place of destination. But there may be someone else coming in. Then you know that and yet next time you're on the wrong floor again. So I think we should also realise that this applies to all kinds of mistakes and things that go wrong. More and more is needed than you think to learn from wrong habits and to really give that citizen-oriented approach hands and feet in practice. Mr. Chairman. The Bosman Committee's report, in what the Chamber has proposed itself as a programme, and in what the government has now put forward, among other things, in Work on Implementation, has given good impetus to this. I think it is very important that we do not leave it to this debate either. Luckily, that's no one's intention either. There must also be follow-up times with the State of implementation and at other times to check again and again whether we are doing justice to the recommendations made by this committee. What else is needed to move forward? Above all, let us not forget to give the good examples. They're lucky to find them, too. We must not only pay attention to what is going wrong, but also inspiringly convey what is going well. Finally, I would like to say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u245	Thank you, Mr. Van der Staaij. I'm suspending the meeting for five minutes. The directors have indicated this in order to prepare themselves and to give appreciation on the motions submitted.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u246	First of all, I would like to respond to Mr Sneller's question to the Bureau and to me as President. He asked to consider the role of the Bureau to have the recommendations in the report evaluated after one year. I promise I'll discuss this at the Bureau and I'll get back to you on that. I shall now give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u247	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We have made a division of the motions. I will not advise on the Van Baarle motion on the items Nos. 6 and 7; the Secretary of State will do so. The request in the Van Baarle motion to item No. 8 is rather wide-ranging: "in the case of legislative proposals and policy proposals." Of course, we often have policy ideas, so this can go a long way. Can I interpret the motion in such a way that it concerns policies that are genuinely substantial and that have a direct impact on implementation, without always having to lead to legislation? In that case, too, we will be looking early at what this means for citizens and for people who are affected by this. These are not all policy ideas, as this motion suggests, but genuine intentions that have a substantial impact. If I may interpret the motion in this way, I can give her judgment chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u248	I see Mr Van Baarle nodding yes, so he agrees with your interpretation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u249	Very good. The motion in part No. 9 is also for the Secretary of State. The motion in part No. 10 by Mrs Van Dijk and Mrs Van der Graaf I can give judgment Chamber. The Motion-Inge of Dijk c.s. in piece No. 11 I can also give judgment Chamber. The same applies to the motion in part No. 12, on which I would like to make one small comment. It has now been included in the annual report, but it is possible that a letter will be sent to the Chamber. I hope Mrs Van Dijk will leave us the room to see what is the best place to inform about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u250	Mrs. Van Dijk nods yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u251	Fine. Then we'll see what the best place is, but the core of the question remains. Then there are the other motions. The motion in part No. 13. If we do that, we'll do it right away with the work agenda. I think that's the right place, because otherwise we're gonna keep sending a lot of letters in a row, which partly double again. If I may put the letter on the agenda of work on the recommendation of the Bosman Committee, I can give this motion a Chamber of Appeal. The motions on the documents Nos. 14 and 15 are for the Secretary of State. I had one more question from Mrs Van der Graaf of the Christian Union. It asks when the do-it-yourself test is in progress. It's a stand-up practice now. Legislation, in the case of execution tests, must include the do-it-yourself test. Those are the motions and the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u252	Thank you. Then I would like to thank the Minister very much. I give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u253	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will start with the open question of the Christian Union about which municipalities are involved in the pilots we are trying to experiment with with the one-stop shop function. These are the municipalities of Amsterdam, Tilburg, Bernheze, Nijmegen and Apeldoorn and the execution organisations CJIB, SVB, CAK, DUO, IND, Tax Administration and UWV. I had already indicated that in December we will summarise and review the results and then share them with your Chamber as soon as possible. Then the motion to part No. 6 by Mr Van Baarle. I have indicated that we are going to work out this philosophy of steering and that I shall look at Mr Van Baarle's Minister for the Interior. She has indicated in her outline letter that she is going to do so. In fact, that's standing policy. I understand you've agreed that we can take over. Then this motion can be taken over.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u254	Yes. I'll see if there's any objection. That is not the case. Then the motion will be taken over. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u255	Then the motion to part No. 7 by Mr Van Baarle. He's gonna get judgment, Room. In his motion for a resolution, Mr Sneller gave a number of reasons. 9 that it is not entirely clear to him whether we want to do this. Yes, we want to ensure that knowledge and experience of implementation practice are actually incorporated into the administrative boards of the various departments. I have a request on this motion, namely to allow the Minister to send you a letter stating how best to report on it. If we can do that, we can give this motion judgment chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u256	Mr. Sneller nods.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u257	The Secretary of State. Did I say the wrong minister? No, the Secretary of State. Then Mrs Maatoug's motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u258	That's the motion in part No. 14.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u259	That is indeed the motion in part No. 14. The request is to hold this motion because there is a letter coming your way about how we want to deal with the do-it-yourself test. We would therefore like to try to indicate how we can take that into account in the inventory. So the question is, would you mind doing that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u260	I would like to take a look at Mrs Maatoug van GroenLinks' willingness to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u261	Actually, I don't, but first I have a very clear question for you to consider. When the cabinet is working on it and we are getting to work on the power test, so I understood from the response earlier this is about the new legislation. The question, also in the long debate with the other minister, was about how we deal with existing legislation and regulations, given the report. That is why I have formulated the request in such a way that you show that we are already doing so and that it can be included in the letter. But I don't understand why the motion should be held.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u262	'Cause we're coming up with the inventory. The question you are asking is very broad at the moment: are we going to take that power test in all the existing legislation? I think it would be wise to look first at what we collect in that inventory and then take the step. If you put it so straight forward, I have to dissuade the motion, because it is a great deal if we are going to have to carry out all the legislation that exists now, while we are actually working on an inventory of legislation where this issue is actually taking place.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u263	Finally, Mr President. The operative part is as follows. You're gonna inventory it, and then maybe you're gonna say, "We're already doing this." And where you don't do anything, you might be able to do a power check and inform the Chamber about it. I don't really understand why the cabinet doesn't want that, because it is very much in line with the response we just received and with the intention of the cabinet. I'll put the motion to the vote anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u264	The point is a little bit that we are doing the inventory. We are looking at legislation that does not work well for citizens in some aspects, or rather is harmful to citizens. If you say that we should include the capacity to act in that inventory, then you ask me to do something for all existing legislation. That is how I read it, and that is a very big task, because then you will have to do all the existing legislation again. My request would therefore be to hold the motion, to have the letter sent about that inventory and to see what is in it in terms of capacity for action. Then you can take a further step if necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u265	Otherwise, the motion will be dissuaded?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u266	Otherwise, I'm gonna have to dissuade the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u267	We're going to the motion in part no. 15.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u268	That is Mrs Leijten's motion, which deals with contacts between Members of Parliament and officials in order to obtain support or to obtain information. It says in the motion that there should be a very thorough review of direct contacts. Actually, we just did that review. The cabinet wants to carry out its ideas on how to have contact as generously as possible. There's also a dialogue going on. Mr Van der Staaij is involved. In that context, I would like to propose that this dialogue should take place first. Could that be the interpretation of the motion? I therefore propose that we wait and see if there is a need for a further review, with, of course, ministerial responsibility and our stability in the role of the Member States. In that case, we can give the motion judgment Chamber. If it is only about the actual revision, it is too early for us. My question is therefore whether we can give this interpretation, that we look at the results in the context of the revisions that have already been made and in the context of the ongoing dialogue, and that we only then proceed to any revisions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u269	In fact, under the guidance of our esteemed colleague Mrs Van Dijk of the CDA, we are working on a motion that says that the Chamber should be involved in the information position. That certainly runs and we can take this into account. But it is also a statement that it needs to be revised. In previous parliamentary questions and an earlier exchange of views I had with the outgoing minister Ollongren it was: no, we revised it and that was enough. What does the report say on page 12? It says: "In December 2020, this ukaze-Kok was withdrawn and revised instructions were published. It's called the "ukajsa" internally these days. However, this has not removed all obstacles." So we're going to have to look at that. I see it so that when we adopt this motion and the government supports it, it is not no go in the talks we are having.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u270	Yeah, but I still have to discourage the motion. It says here that there must be a thorough review. That is something other than that there are still obstacles in practice and that we are discussing them. Once again, the government can live with discussions about this and see how we can remove the obstacles and with a generous interpretation of cooperation, of course within the context of ministerial responsibility. But it cannot live with the current wording of the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u271	This strengthens me in thinking that we should request this as a Chamber. Where there's a will, there's good contact. That's a really different atmosphere. It's possible. But where the place is closed, there is almost a culture of fear for employees if they ever have contact with a Member of Parliament. That is what we want to break through with this. I regret that this little interruption debate has led to the removal of the verdict, but it strengthens me precisely in the sense that it is right to put the motion to the vote on Tuesday.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u272	I myself find that regrettable, because the idea of the cabinet is precisely to deal with this generously, especially in order to enable these contacts between officials and the Chamber. But again, in the way it's formulated, it's just a step too far.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u273	Thank you. That brings us to the end of the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u274	I would like to thank the leaders, the spokesmen and the people who have followed the debate. But, of course, on behalf of the Chamber, I would once again like to thank the members of the Temporary Committee on Implementing Organisations, the Chairman, Mr Bosman, and the Vice-President, Mrs Özütok, who are both still present. I would also like to thank the other members of the committee, Mr Groothuizen, Mr Slootweg, Mr Laçin and Mr Kerstens. And, of course, I would also like to thank the staff who contributed to the report we discussed all afternoon. Couldn't have done that without the commission and the staff.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-9.u275	We're going to vote next week on the motions that have been tabled. I shall suspend the sitting until 7.30 p.m. We are going to start a little earlier with the debate on the amendment of the Integrity Reviews Act.
